Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating geometric perturbation of adsorbates. Strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to break from limitations and enhance catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal microscopic factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it. Mixing enhances differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling of Pd clusters to substrates is analyzed through d-band local density of states, showing strong coupling for Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior for Pd3/Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, providing insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band properties. Understanding these effects could lead to a fast screening method for alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, reducing the need for extensive DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal fills the d band more than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Adding a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal decreases activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions but has a smaller effect on hydrogenation and dehydrogenation. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating that geometric and electronic properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting control of Sn concentration could optimize catalyst performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction, offering potential for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its use in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, serves as a descriptor for site reactivity. This understanding enables the prediction of alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. Hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not significantly alter charge transfer between elements, focusing the impact on d-band width and reactivity. Innovative strategies can be developed by correlating alloy geometry with d-band properties, optimizing catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of active metals, favoring specific reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the electronic state of the active metal, impacting catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, and providing O2 adsorption sites for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption on Pt atoms near Sn. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification's impact on adsorbate binding strength can limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration is necessary. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. CO binding energy on Pt decreases due to Ru interaction, and CO binds stronger on Ru mixed with Pt, demonstrating enhanced differences. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. These effects are crucial for designing efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate d-band modifications. Understanding these principles could significantly reduce the need for DFT calculations when assessing surfaces, including alloying effects, leading to a fast screening method for identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The surface composition of bimetallic catalysts often differs from the bulk, with one component concentrating in the surface, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, adding copper to nickel decreases activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions, while having a smaller effect on hydrogenation and dehydrogenation. This selectivity is influenced by geometric factors, such as the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, and electronic factors, such as the interaction between different metal atoms. The rigid band model initially described a single d band for the alloy, but recent views suggest separate d bands for each component, with surface atoms retaining chemical differences. These insights can guide the design of bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This demonstrates that the electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Notably, less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating that surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalyst performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, demonstrates the d-band center's significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems. This model's results align well with full DFT calculations on numerous binary alloys, validating its effectiveness in screening alloys for desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, the interplay of geometric and electronic effects enhances catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly transfer charge between elements but widens the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). Alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals determine the d-band center position, crucial for predicting chemical reactivity (Quote 14). This understanding enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts by exploiting the synergistic effects of alloy composition and structure (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalysis, and can be controlled by selecting the second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, Sn modifies the active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of a PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. This balance enhances activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, their relative importance in selectivity control for specific reactions is often unclear. Understanding the dominant factor for a given reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification's limitation on catalysis improvement necessitates perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and the PdCu interaction leads to a weaker CO binding to Pd and a stronger interaction with Cu. Electronic coupling in Pd clusters deposited on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows intermediate behavior, with localized and delocalized states indicating significant but varied electronic coupling. These insights offer innovative strategies for designing more efficient and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, facilitating the estimation of d-band modifications. This understanding allows for the calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations, offering a rapid method to screen potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals can affect catalytic activity, as described by Mott and Jones. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface can play a crucial role in determining selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific surface sites for different types of reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic systems, or bimetallic cluster catalysts, which can exhibit major selectivity effects in catalysis and have compositions outside the range possible in bulk solid solutions. These catalysts can be prepared by dispersing metals on a carrier, resulting in very small metal clusters with a high surface area, which can lead to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems compared to traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Notably, less preadsorbed hydrogen is required to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on reactant adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting synergistic effects that can be exploited by controlling Sn concentration for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, effectively incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, validating the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The width of the local density of d-states, a descriptor of chemical reactivity, is influenced by alloy geometry and d-orbital extent, allowing prediction of alloy site reactivity. This understanding can be exploited to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, predictive for pure metals, can be extended to alloys, where the position of the d-band center is governed by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, facilitating the prediction of chemical reactivity for various alloy sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's electronic state, impacting catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases Pt electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying modifies surface geometry and electronic properties in transition-metal nanoparticles, impacting catalytic performance. Charge transfer and hybridization changes occur due to differences in orbital energies and bond distances. Understanding if geometry or electronics dominates selectivity for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced catalytic performance and selectivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, as electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity and selectivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, demonstrating enhanced differences rather than intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts due to strong Cu-Pd interaction. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals significant but varying degrees of coupling, indicating the influence of substrate interaction on electronic properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates how alloy composition impacts catalytic activity, offering insights into the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences in transition-metal alloys. This example is pertinent to developing strategies for more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to differences in d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, influenced by d-band energy, strain, and ligand effects. DFT calculations help elucidate electronic and geometric effects separately. A correlation exists between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these modifications could enable efficient calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, offering a fast method to identify surfaces with enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating that electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high conversion rates, suggesting that by controlling the Sn concentration, the synergy between geometric and electronic effects can be exploited to design more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, potentially aiding in screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations, indicating the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by influencing the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, a descriptor of chemical reactivity, is pivotal as it is uniquely determined by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, without significant charge transfer between elements. This understanding enables the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity and facilitates the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. As highlighted, the d-band model's predictive capacity for alloys is governed by the localized d-band width, which is a function of the alloy geometry and d-orbital extents.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like the ensemble effect, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. Smaller Pt ensembles and electronic modification by Sn inhibit coke formation, leading to an optimal Pt3Sn ratio for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this synergy include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering metal bonding hybridization due to changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification may limit catalysis improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be perturbed. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying factors underlying reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals significant coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is relevant to understanding synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate modifications in d-band properties. This understanding allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This approach facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, offering a new method to identify efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms affects the availability of active sites, influencing selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The rigid band model, which describes a single d band for the alloy, has been challenged, suggesting separate d bands for each component. Surface composition and dispersion play crucial roles, as evidenced by the selectivity effects in nickel-copper alloys for hydrogenolysis and dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high conversion rates, suggesting that controlling Sn concentration can optimize catalyst performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloyed surfaces compared to Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on reactant adsorption and reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, demonstrates good agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys. This supports the notion that the d-band center is a powerful descriptor for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the screening of alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which posits that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not cause substantial charge transfer, allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states. This width, a unique function of the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the position of the d-band center and thus the chemical reactivity. Understanding this relationship enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The absence of significant charge transfer between elements in alloys, as evidenced by XANES spectra analysis, supports the d-band model's predictive capacity. Innovative strategies can exploit these insights to tailor alloy catalysts for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect enhances selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the active metal surface. Electronically, the active metal's state can be altered by forming intermetallic phases, improving catalytic properties. These effects can be harnessed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. For instance, intermetallic phases can provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while also suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase, suppressing undesired reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalysis improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal the reactivity of bimetallic systems, influenced by interatomic distance modifications. Geometric effects, ensemble, and ligand effects collectively determine reactivity. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species adsorbing another for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling of Pd clusters to metal substrates is analyzed through d-band local density of states, showing strong coupling in Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior in Pd3/Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by geometric and electronic effects. The d-band model attributes reactivity variations to the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals, sensitive to factors like strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized Sn concentration can enhance catalytic performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction, offering potential strategies for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, effectively incorporates geometric and electronic effects. This method, showing good agreement with DFT calculations, supports the notion that the d-band center has significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the screening of alloys for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on d-band width. This width, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, governs the local d-band center and chemical reactivity. Understanding this relationship enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles. Electronic effects improve catalytic properties by altering the active metal's electronic state, controllable by selecting a suitable second metal. Exploiting these effects can lead to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and have simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption on Pt atoms near Sn. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst composition and structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changing metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating adsorbate bonding configuration changes. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers to exploit this interplay effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu systems show intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are influenced by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species adsorbing another for desired reactions. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, influenced by surface properties like the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, is sensitive to strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band properties. This understanding could lead to a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces, reducing the need for extensive DFT calculations and identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This suggests that electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating that surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the d-band center and width, which governs chemical reactivity without significant d-electron charge transfer (Quotes 2, 4). The d-band model, predictive for pure metals, extends to alloys, allowing the prediction of chemical activity based on d-band width and alloy geometry (Quotes 3, 12-15). Experimental evidence, including XANES spectra and oscillator strengths, confirms changes in d-band characteristics upon alloy formation, with negligible d-electron transfer (Quotes 7-11). Charge transfer in alloys is primarily due to s/p electrons, not d-electrons, impacting adsorption energy less significantly (Quotes 16-22). Understanding these effects enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems surpassing monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's electronic state, improving catalytic properties. Exploiting these effects can lead to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, Sn modifies the active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    