Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties via alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering hybridization from changed bond distances. The relative importance of geometric and electronic effects on selectivity control is often unclear, but understanding their dominance in specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, comprising charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Hybridization changes manifest in various ways, affecting d-band center and adsorption. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, depleting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. Electronic modification can limit catalysis improvements, necessitating geometric perturbation. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers to exploit this interplay.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic interaction and strain modify pseudomorphic overlayer properties. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, crucial for catalysis, is governed by surface properties including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band center's energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate modifications in d-band properties. Understanding these modifications could facilitate the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This would streamline the screening of potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of geometric and electronic effects in enhancing catalytic performance. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is significantly reduced on the alloy compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize their performance for specific reactions, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate effects of chemical composition, strain, and ligand changes. This parameter has significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, as evidenced by its good agreement with DFT calculations on numerous binary alloys, supporting its use in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity without significant charge transfer between elements. The width of the local density of d-states, influenced by the hybridization of d-orbitals, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. The d-band center and chemical reactivity are unique functions of the spatial extent of d-orbitals and alloy geometry, enabling the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. While there's no significant d-electron transfer, shifts in electron density, mainly involving s/p electrons, occur, which have less impact on adsorption energy.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of metal atoms. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase, suppressing undesired reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, their relative contribution to selectivity control in specific reactions is often unclear, but understanding this can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, referring to bonding configuration (Quote 2), and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, influence d-band perturbation through charge transfer and hybridization. Changes in hybridization affect adsorption behavior, while charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting catalytic reactivity. Limitations in improving catalysis through electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9), offering pathways to tailor reaction selectivity and tune reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying factors in bimetallic systems' reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate interaction, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates how alloy composition can impact catalytic activity, shedding light on the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences in transition-metal alloys. This example highlights the potential for designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these modifications could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, potentially revolutionizing catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, potentially affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of geometric and electronic effects in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy's nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene lead to high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting that controlling Sn concentration can optimize catalytic performance. These findings imply that by carefully controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, it may be possible to design systems with enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, demonstrates the potential to screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties. This approach incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain effects, and ligand effects, showcasing the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, which is essential for designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of alloy sites. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not lead to substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting the relative reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band center position, influenced by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity, enabling predictions of catalytic performance for various alloy sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects improve catalysis by changing the active metal's state, controllable by selecting the second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, curbing coking. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering hybridization from changes in bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate bonding configuration. Strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced selectivity and reactivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations elucidate the reactivity of bimetallic systems, revealing that modifications of interatomic distances significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with species selectively adsorbing reactants. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, do not act bifunctionally but form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate-cluster coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates how alloy composition can synergistically influence catalytic activity, shedding light on the interplay between geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys that enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, facilitating estimations of d-band modifications. Understanding these principles allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This leads to a rapid screening method for identifying alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal alters the d-band filling, potentially affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized Sn concentration can enhance performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction, offering potential for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme using the surface d-band center as a parameter to estimate oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented. This approach incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, demonstrating good agreement with DFT calculations for binary alloys. The model's effectiveness supports the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. The hybridization of d-orbitals, without significant charge transfer, alters the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity, as the width of the d-band is a key descriptor of reactivity. The d-band model, predictive for pure metals, extends to alloys, where additional factors like local d-band filling influence the d-band center. Experimental evidence from XANES spectra confirms the formation of alloys and the absence of significant charge transfer. The relationship between adsorption energies and the spatial extent of d-orbitals allows for the prediction of chemical reactivity based on alloy geometry. Understanding these effects enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the active metal, favoring specific reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties by changing the active metal's electronic state. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise control of catalyst synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying modifies catalytic performance by changing surface geometry and electronic properties. Charge transfer and altered hybridization occur due to differences in orbital energies and bond distances. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate selectivity for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. To optimize catalysis, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced selectivity and reactivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Bimetallic systems' reactivity is governed by these effects, which are challenging to disentangle experimentally. Electronic structure calculations reveal the microscopic factors underlying reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate interaction, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties affecting bond formation and breaking, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. A correlation exists between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Establishing this understanding allows for efficient calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The study shows that less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the surface properties' role in adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys. This supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the screening of alloys for desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity without significant charge transfer between elements, as the width of the d-band dictates site reactivity (quotes [2], [11]). Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-orbital extent allows for the prediction of chemical reactivity (quotes [14], [15]), facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronically, the active metal's state is modified, improving catalytic properties. These effects can be exploited to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition to Pt-based catalysts modifies the active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and minimizing metal sintering. It neutralizes support acidity and facilitates coke diffusion, curbing coking reactions. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through particle size adjustment, promoter addition, or alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically boost catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification's impact on adsorbate binding strength can limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to enhance catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying the reactivity of bimetallic systems, showing that modifications of interatomic distances significantly affect catalytic activity. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and mixing Pt and Ru enhances differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts due to strong Cu-Pd interaction. Pd clusters on Au(111) exhibit intermediate electronic coupling, indicating significant but not as strong interaction as on Pd(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. While specific strategies for exploiting geometric and electronic effects are not detailed in the literature, this example demonstrates the potential for designing more efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which determine bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-bands' average energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element, facilitating the estimation of d-band modifications. Establishing this understanding could significantly reduce the need for DFT calculations, offering a new screening method for alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the selectivity of reactions that require specific active metal atom sites. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during TPD of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers. This demonstrates that electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting that controlling Sn concentration could optimize catalyst performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center, effectively incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter's descriptive power is supported by its agreement with DFT calculations on various binary alloys, highlighting its utility in screening alloys for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, not significant charge transfer, governs the chemical reactivity of alloy sites, allowing prediction of reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position, influenced by bond distance and d-orbital spatial extent, can be predicted, facilitating the creation of advanced catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, while electronic effects improve catalysis through controlled changes in the active metal's state. Exploiting these effects leads to the development of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Strategies to exploit this interplay include identifying optimal alloy compositions, predicting alloying effects on catalytic performance, and developing synthesis methods for precise control of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered hybridization from changes in metal bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, their relative contribution to selectivity control in specific reactions is often unclear. Understanding the dominant factor can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to similar reactant and product strength changes can be overcome by altering adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, tailoring reaction selectivity and tuning reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity beyond monometallic catalysts. PtRu alloys exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. The strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, do not act bifunctionally but form a homogeneous new metal. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals discrete and delocalized d-band orbitals, indicating significant but varying electronic coupling strength.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is pertinent to understanding the synergistic effects on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations elucidate electronic and geometric effects separately, while the correlation between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements estimates d-band modifications. This understanding could enable rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, reducing reliance on extensive DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, with a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent, potentially affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property effects on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys using the surface d-band center as a parameter shows promise for screening alloys for catalytic properties. This approach incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, supporting the exploitation of geometric and electronic effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by influencing the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer determines the chemical reactivity of alloy sites, making the width of the local density of d-states a key descriptor. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can predict and manipulate the position of the d-band center, enabling the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of a PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with dual effects: charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, tailoring reaction selectivity and tuning reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. Electronic structure calculations elucidate the reactivity of bimetallic systems, revealing that interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. The strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy, and bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows significant coupling, with discrete and delocalized orbital behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for catalytic enhancement. However, the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the significance of alloy composition in catalytic activity, offering insights into synergistic effects that could outperform monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, where the average energy of d-bands, sensitive to strain and ligand effects, plays a critical role. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, particularly through DFT calculations, is essential for explaining metal surface reactivity. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, which describes bonding interactions. Establishing this understanding could enable the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations, offering a new, fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, impacting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface affects selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific active sites. Recent views suggest separate d bands for each component, challenging the rigid band model. Surface composition, differing from bulk, plays a crucial role, as shown in nickel-copper alloys where copper concentrates in the surface, affecting catalytic activity. Bimetallic clusters, with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, can exhibit enhanced selectivity and activity for specific reactions, outperforming monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is significantly less on the alloys than on Pt(111), indicating that surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene on the (2 × 2) alloy, due to matching desorption activation energies, suggests that by controlling the Sn concentration, the synergy between geometric and electronic effects can be exploited to design more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows promise for screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating the d-band center's significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, as per quote [2], indicates that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not cause substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states, a descriptor of chemical reactivity, is crucial. This allows for predicting the relative reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties, as highlighted in quote [14]. Understanding the relationship between the alloy's structure and the d-band's electronic properties, as mentioned in quote [15], enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position, influenced by the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity, as explained in quote [4].", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, ensemble effects increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size, as seen in alloyed surfaces. Electronically, the active metal's state can be controlled by forming intermetallic phases or choosing a suitable second metal, enhancing catalytic properties. These effects can be exploited to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. For instance, intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation, increasing electron density and weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    