3 Synthesis Methods for Doped Oxides
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1 Introduction
There is an extensive literature on catalyst preparation (85-89) to which we add several books edited by Pernicone and collaborators. We review here those methods of preparation that were used to make doped oxides and selected examples in which an effort was made to prove that doped oxides were obtained and that their physical and chemical properties differ from those of the undoped host oxide.
No matter which method is used, it is difficult to prove that the material synthesized is a doped oxide with the dopant in the surface or the subsurface layer (which is the model used in calculations). While doped oxides are targeted, the preparation method may produce a system whose surface consists of very small oxide clusters of the dopant, supported on the surface of the host oxide. Such clusters are catalytically active. (8, 9) Being very small, they have physical and chemical properties different from those of the dopant’s bulk oxide. Because of this, it is difficult to distinguish them from a doped oxide. It is also possible that the “as-prepared” catalyst is a doped oxide that, under reducing reaction conditions, is converted to very small metallic dopant clusters supported on the host oxide. The physical and chemical properties of such clusters are different from those of a bulk metal, and it is difficult to distinguish them from a doped oxide.
Our preferred strategy, for establishing that a doped oxide was obtained, is to use three methods of preparation: one that aims at making a doped oxide, one that intends to make small dopant–oxide clusters on the host oxide, and one that makes very small metallic clusters of the dopant, supported on the host oxide. If these three preparations have different chemical and physical properties, we are more confident that one of them is a doped oxide.
It is likely that many doped oxides are thermodynamically metastable. If this is the case, the preparation method should be designed to prevent the system from going to equilibrium. It is more likely that this goal is reached if the preparation method starts with a homogeneous mixture of the precursors and the calcination temperature is low enough to prevent dopant diffusion and aggregation.
Finally, we note that the “same” doped oxides (same dopant, same host oxide, same proportions) synthesized using different precursors (e.g., chloride, or nitrate, or acetate, or oxalate, etc.), or different calcination temperature and time, often have very different catalytic activities. (90, 91)
These uncertainties in the outcome of the preparation also appear in work in which the bulk properties of a doped oxide are utilized. Work with doped YAG (yttrium aluminum garnet) metal oxide phosphors, made by a solid-state method, or by coprecipitation, or by sol–gel, has shown that even if a “homogeneous” doped oxide is produced, the impurities, the defects, and the morphology are different and depend on the precursors used and the synthesis method. These often lead to differences in physical properties and performance. (92)
3.2 Solid-State Synthesis
Molecular compounds (salts, oxides, etc.) of the host oxide and of the dopant are mechanically intermixed as solid particulates and then heated to high temperature, in oxygen, to allow the dopant to diffuse in the host oxide. This method is suitable when the doped oxide is the thermodynamically stable phase. The method starts with two phases, and the rate of forming a homogeneous phase increases when the particles are smaller and the temperature is higher. There are only a few examples where a substantial effort was made to prove that a doped oxide was prepared. In one example, (93) a mixture of La2O3, SrCO3, TiO2, and Ta2O5 was prepared in the desired stoichiometry, then ball-milled in ethanol with zirconia balls for 12 h. The wet mixture was dried and calcined in air at 1350 °C for 6 h. Further ball-milling for 12 h followed by a final heating in air at 1460 °C formed a solid solution of Sr0.9La0.1Ti1–xTaxO3. XRD measurements for materials with x = 0.00, 0.01, 0.03, 0.05 detected a single-phase strontium titanate structure, with a lattice constant shift consistent with substitutional doping.
3.3 Incipient Wet Impregnation
Wet impregnation exposes the host oxide to a liquid containing the precursor of the dopant. The mixture is then dried and heated in air. It is hoped that heating causes surface doping rather than a separate phase of the oxide of the dopant or a submonolayer of the dopant oxide on the host oxide.
Copper-doped ceria catalysts were prepared by impregnating ceria (prepared by calcining ceria nitrate in air) with a copper nitrate solution. The particles were dried at 120 °C for 12 h and calcined in air, at 500 °C, for 4 h. (94) When the Cu loading was below 3% by weight, no crystalline copper oxide phases were observed in XRD. Rietveld analysis determined that the material had ceria structure with a small lattice constant shift, which is considered evidence that some Cu ions substituted Ce ions in the CeO2 lattice. Above 3% Cu loading, phase separation was observed. The amount of copper oxide phase increased with the calcination temperature. The doped material was more active for CO oxidation than the undoped oxide.
This method of preparation is not always successful. An example of “failure” is provided by the following preparation of Ni-doped ceria. (95) A 0.5 M solution of Ni(NO3) in water was added to ceria powder. The suspension was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 h to make sure that the pores of ceria are filled with liquid. After being stirred, the solvent was evaporated at 110 °C and dried for 12 h. The resulting solid was calcined at 450 °C in air for 5 h. For low nominal Ni concentration, the XRD showed only the fluoride structure on CeO2 with no shift. This was considered an indication that no Ni is present in the bulk of the particles. The XPS signals are similar to those of bulk NiO. The catalytic activity of the Ni–CeO2 system for ethane ODH is much higher than that of CeO2 or NiO. It is assumed that the catalyst consists of NiOx spread on the ceria surface, although the presence of substitutionally doped Ni could not be excluded.
