<quotes>

[1] "The addition of a second metal has been found to be highly effective for the sintering resistance of Pt particles. The introduced metal forms alloys with Pt around Pt particles,63 and the alloys anchor them on the surface of the carriers, making them not easy to migrate and coalesce."
[2] "The application of the carriers possessing a strong interaction with Pt is another way to retard the sintering. Al2O3 is the most common carrier of Pt catalyst, in which the coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ can anchor Pt to make it not easy to migrate."
[3] "MgAl2O4 spinel is also a good choice as the carrier. Generally, Pt is not directly loaded on MgAl2O4 spinel prepared beforehand, but firstly loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite, and then Pt particles are enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel formed through the collapse of the layered structure of the hydrotalcite after calcination at high temperature."
[4] "Nanocarbon was also reported as the carrier of Pt to improve the sintering resistance, and the strong metalcarrier interaction leads to the electron transfer from nanocarbon to the Pt particles, significantly preventing the sintering of Pt."
[5] "Recently, Pt supported on CeO2 has attracted more attention because of the ability of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state. The atomically dispersed Pt is most likely to be present in the form of Pt2+ bonded to the ubiquitous step edges of the CeO2 surface."
[6] "The introduction of a second metal or the choice of an appropriate carrier only slows down the sintering rate of Pt. To recover the activity completely, the sintered Pt particles must be redispersed."
[7] "The spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally, chlorine), the role of which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles. This step is called oxychlorination regeneration."
[8] "The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be regenerated fully by burning coke without oxychlorination to redisperse Pt."
[9] "To regenerate the Pt catalyst in the absence of a halide is great progress."
[10] "The addition of Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts exhibits similar effects as Sn. PtGa/SiO2 containing isolated gallium sites display a high performance in propane dehydrogenation."
[11] "The reactivity can be fully recovered via simple coke burning in air, although the sintering of Pt still occurs."
[12] "The addition of B to the V-MCM-41 catalyst can further enhance the dispersion of vanadium species and improve the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity to olefins."
[13] "The addition of La2O3 or Y2O3 can effectively enhance the formation of Zrcus, and especially the latter exhibits a more active and selective dehydrogenation performance."
[14] "The introduction of tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metals Cu, Ru, Ni and Co into La2O3ZrO2 catalysts, and the dehydrogenation activity further increases due to the incremental concentration of Zrcus sites through the in situ reduction of ZrO2."
[15] "The addition of Ba has been introduced. The coverage of surface tetrahedrally coordinated Ga by Ba leads to the decreased coke formation and increased ethylene selectivity."
[16] "The introduction of Cu into the Pd catalyst can increase the dispersion of Pd and improve both the activity and the selectivity even though the activity of PdCu/Al2O3 is just over half the activity of Pt/Al2O3."
[17] "The introduction of Sn effectively realizes the segregation of Ni atoms, breaking the active sites for cracking, and at the same time, electron donation from Sn to Ni occurs, facilitating the desorption of the formed olefins."
[18] "When Cu is alloyed with Ni, the activity for CC bond rupture decreases significantly, which is probably caused by the reduced adsorption of the hydrocarbon intermediates."
[19] "The sulfide of Ni-based catalyst exhibits higher dehydrogenation activity than its phosphide, and cracking reactions have been effectively inhibited after the addition of sulfur."
[20] "The addition of P to Ni-based catalyst can modify the dehydrogenation performance for both light alkanes and cyclohexane effectively."
[21] "The addition of Cs has been introduced into the Ni2P-based catalyst; isobutylene selectivity of higher than 96% and 93% can be obtained over Ni2P/SiO2 and Ni2P/active carbon catalysts, respectively, and at the same time, an increased isobutane conversion and enhanced stability can be observed."
[22] "The introduction of 0.05 wt% Pd into the Sn/SiO2 catalyst can obviously suppress coke formation and enhance the stability of the catalyst to some extent."
[23] "The introduction of La2O3 or Y2O3 can effectively enhance the formation of Zrcus, and especially the latter exhibits a more active and selective dehydrogenation performance."
[24] "The introduction of tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metals Cu, Ru, Ni and Co into La2O3ZrO2 catalysts, and the dehydrogenation activity further increases due to the incremental concentration of Zrcus sites through the in situ reduction of ZrO2."
[25] "The introduction of Ba has been introduced. The coverage of surface tetrahedrally coordinated Ga by Ba leads to the decreased coke formation and increased ethylene selectivity."
[26] "The introduction of Cu into the Pd catalyst can increase the dispersion of Pd and improve both the activity and the selectivity even though the activity of PdCu/Al2O3 is just over half the activity of Pt/Al2O3."
[27] "The introduction of Sn effectively realizes the segregation of Ni atoms, breaking the active sites for cracking, and at the same time, electron donation from Sn to Ni occurs, facilitating the desorption of the formed olefins."
[28] "When Cu is alloyed with Ni, the activity for CC bond rupture decreases significantly, which is probably caused by the reduced adsorption of the hydrocarbon intermediates."
[29] "The sulfide of Ni-based catalyst exhibits higher dehydrogenation activity than its phosphide, and cracking reactions have been effectively inhibited after the addition of sulfur."
[30] "The addition of P to Ni-based catalyst can modify the dehydrogenation performance for both light alkanes and cyclohexane effectively."
[31] "The introduction of Cs has been introduced into the Ni2P-based catalyst; isobutylene selectivity of higher than 96% and 93% can be obtained over Ni2P/SiO2 and Ni2P/active carbon catalysts, respectively, and at the same time, an increased isobutane conversion and enhanced stability can be observed."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The addition of a second metal to form alloys with Pt around Pt particles has been found to be highly effective for the sintering resistance of Pt particles. The alloys anchor the Pt particles on the surface of the carriers, making them not easy to migrate and coalesce. The application of carriers possessing a strong interaction with Pt, such as Al2O3, MgAl2O4 spinel, nanocarbon, and CeO2, is another way to retard the sintering. These carriers can anchor Pt to make it not easy to migrate, enclose Pt particles in the interspace of the spinel, lead to electron transfer from the carrier to the Pt particles, and trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state. The introduction of a second metal or the choice of an appropriate carrier only slows down the sintering rate of Pt. To recover the activity completely, the sintered Pt particles must be redispersed. The spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide, which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles. The deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be regenerated fully by burning coke without oxychlorination to redisperse Pt. The introduction of Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts exhibits similar effects as Sn. The reactivity can be fully recovered via simple coke burning in air, although the sintering of Pt still occurs. The introduction of B to the V-MCM-41 catalyst can further enhance the dispersion of vanadium species and improve the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity to olefins. The introduction of La2O3 or Y2O3 can effectively enhance the formation of Zrcus, and especially the latter exhibits a more active and selective dehydrogenation performance. The introduction of tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metals Cu, Ru, Ni and Co into La2O3ZrO2 catalysts, and the dehydrogenation activity further increases due to the incremental concentration of Zrcus sites through the in situ reduction of ZrO2. The introduction of Ba has been introduced. The coverage of surface tetrahedrally coordinated Ga by Ba leads to the decreased coke formation and increased ethylene selectivity. The introduction of Cu into the Pd catalyst can increase the dispersion of Pd and improve both the activity and the selectivity even though the activity of PdCu/Al2O3 is just over half the activity of Pt/Al2O3. The introduction of Sn effectively realizes the segregation of Ni atoms, breaking the active sites for cracking, and at the same time, electron donation from Sn to Ni occurs, facilitating the desorption of the formed olefins. When Cu is alloyed with Ni, the activity for CC bond rupture decreases significantly, which is probably caused by the reduced adsorption of the hydrocarbon intermediates. The sulfide of Ni-based catalyst exhibits higher dehydrogenation activity than its phosphide, and cracking reactions have been effectively inhibited after the addition of sulfur. The addition of P to Ni-based catalyst can modify the dehydrogenation performance for both light alkanes and cyclohexane effectively. The introduction of Cs has been introduced into the Ni2P-based catalyst; isobutylene selectivity of higher than 96% and 93% can be obtained over Ni2P/SiO2 and Ni2P/active carbon catalysts, respectively, and at the same time, an increased isobutane conversion and enhanced stability can be observed. The introduction of 0.05 wt% Pd into the Sn/SiO2 catalyst can obviously suppress coke formation and enhance the stability of the catalyst to some extent.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 添加第二种金属以与Pt粒子周围形成合金已被发现对Pt粒子的烧结抗性高度有效。这些合金将Pt粒子锚定在载体表面，使它们不易迁移和团聚。应用与Pt具有强相互作用的载体，如Al2O3，MgAl2O4尖晶石，纳米碳和CeO2，是另一种减缓烧结的方法。这些载体可以将Pt锚定，使其不易迁移，将Pt粒子封闭在尖晶石的间隙中，导致电子从载体转移到Pt粒子，并将Pt以原子分散状态捕获。添加第二种金属或选择合适的载体仅能减缓Pt的烧结速率。为了完全恢复活性，必须将烧结的Pt粒子再分散。在卤化物（通常是氯）的存在下，用空气再生催化剂，其作用是再分散烧结的Pt粒子。烧结的PtSn/CeO2催化剂可以通过在空气中燃烧焦炭而无需氧氯化来完全再生。添加Ga，In，Zn，Cu，Ir，Co到Pt催化剂上表现出与Sn相似的效果。通过简单的焦炭燃烧，反应性可以完全恢复，尽管Pt仍然发生烧结。向V-MCM-41催化剂中添加B可以进一步增强钒物种的分散性，并提高脱氢活性和对烯烃的选择性。添加La2O3或Y2O3可以有效增强Zrcus的形成，特别是后者表现出更活跃和选择性的脱氢性能。将微量的氢化活性金属Cu，Ru，Ni和Co加入到La2O3ZrO2催化剂中，由于通过原位还原ZrO2增加了Zrcus位点的浓度，脱氢活性进一步增加。引入Ba。表面四面体配位Ga的Ba覆盖导致焦炭形成减少和乙烯选择性增加。将Cu引入Pd催化剂可以增加Pd的分散性并提高活性和选择性，尽管PdCu/Al2O3的活性仅略高于Pt/Al2O3的一半。引入Sn有效地实现了Ni原子的分离，破坏了裂解的活性位点，同时Sn向Ni的电子捐赠发生，促进了形成烯烃的解吸。当Cu与Ni合金化时，CC键断裂的活性显著降低，这可能是由于烃中间体吸附减少所致。Ni基催化剂的硫化物比其磷化物具有更高的脱氢活性，并且在添加硫后，裂解反应得到有效抑制。向Ni基催化剂中添加P可以有效修改轻烷烃和环己烷的脱氢性能。将Cs引入Ni2P基催化剂中；在Ni2P/SiO2和Ni2P/活性炭催化剂上，异丁烯选择性高于96%和93%，同时异丁烷转化率增加，稳定性增强。将0.05 wt% Pd引入Sn/SiO2催化剂中可以明显抑制焦炭形成并增强催化剂的稳定性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
