I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021 www.elsevier.com/locate/ces Application of a carbon membrane reactor for dehydrogenation reactions Gabriel Sznejer, Moshe Sheintuch Department of Chemical Engineering, TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology, Technion City, Haifa 32000, Israel Received 18 June 2003; received in revised form 14 January 2004; accepted 29 January 2004 Abstract This research tests a membrane reactor, equipped with a molecular-sieve carbon membrane, using isobutane dehydrogenation on a chromia alumina catalyst as a model reaction. Most pores of the carbon membrane employed are 68 A in size and previous independent transport studies show that the permeability ratio of hydrogen to isobutene is larger than 100. These features make the membrane an excellent highly selective low-cost candidate for application in a membrane reactor. The novelty of this study is in the proposed application at relatively high temperatures (450C and 500C); only a few studies have tested carbon membrane reactors.
Two types of operation modes were studied, using either nitrogen as a sweeping gas in counter current 5ow or using vacuum as a driving force for membrane transport. As expected, higher conversions were achieved with decreasing feed 5ow rate. The conversion achieved in the counter-current 5ow operation method was higher than in all other modes achieving a maximum of 85% at 500C. While this result is much higher than in the corresponding PFR, the obtained improvement is a result of nitrogen transport and dilution. The conversions obtained in the vacuum mode show modest gains above the ones received in the PFR (40% vs. 30% at 500C). These results were compared with simulations that used the experimentally determined transport parameters. ? 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Membrane reactor; Carbon membrane; Isobutane dehydrogenation; Chromia catalyst
1. Introduction
The transport of gas mixtures through inorganic membranes, and their applications in membrane reactors, is a subject of great current interest. In a search for a highly selective, yet relatively inexpensive, membrane that may be employed in membrane reactors for separation of hydrogen simultaneously with an equilibrium-limited reaction, we study the dehydrogenation of isobutane in a membrane reac- tor equipped with a carbon membrane. Carbon membranes are molecular sieves that incorporate pores of molecular dimensions so that steric, energetic and other e<ects, associ- ated with the proximity of the pore wall, play an increasingly important role in transport processes. This experimental study of a membrane reactor follows a study of separation of hydrogen and small alkane molecules, in a carbon mem- brane (Sznejer et al., 2004). Most pores of the carbon mem- brane employed are 68 A in size and previous independent Corresponding author. Tel.: +972-4-829-2820;fax: +972-4-823-0476.E-mail address: cermsll@tx.technion.ac.il (M. Sheintuch). transport studies showed that the permeability ratio of hy- drogen to isobutene is larger than 100. The problem of pre- dicting the 5uxes and selectivity of transport through such a membrane is still largely open; some results are reviewed below. The novelty of this study is in the proposed appli- cation of a carbon membrane reactor at relatively high tem- peratures.Only few applications of molecular sieve membranes for membrane reactors have been reported. A membrane, made of a bundle of 20 carbon Bbers, was used in a reactor for cyclohexane dehydrogenation at 195C, showing a fair im- provement over equilibrium conversions (Itoh and Haraya,2000). A silicalite-supported zeolite membrane was used in a reactor for the dehydrogenation of isobutane showing a 50% increase in isobutene yield due to continuous product separation (Casanave et al., 1995). Similar yields were mea- sured by sweeping the gas in cocurrent and counter-current modes (Casanave et al., 1999). The conversion and selec- tivity of the methathesis of propene were altered by selec- tively removing trans-2-butene through a silicalite-1 mem- brane supported on a 5at sheet stainless steel (Van de Graaf et al., 1999). 0009-2509/$ - see front matter ? 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.ces.2004.01.051 2014
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
Previous studies employed ceramic or dense-metal mem- branes: while both inorganic membranes can withstand high temperatures, issues such as membrane mechanical instabil- ity (embrittlement), insuFcient permeability or permselec- tivity, or simply high costs still hamper the application of inorganic membranes in the process industry. Dense metal membranes (Pd, Ag, and their alloys) or solid electrolytes,which allow for selective di<usion of hydrogen or oxygen,are usually too expensive for commercial applications and show high selectivity but low permeability. Porous mem- branes consist of a highly porous metal or a ceramic support with a thin top layer, tailored to have the desired selectivity,yield quite a high permeability but a relatively low selectiv- ity (Saracco and Specchia, 1998). Some of the applications that have been tested on porous silica, vycor, alumina and other membranes are listed in Hsieh (1991) and Saracco and Specchia (1994). Most of the studies focused on se- lective permeation of products or reactants (mostly H2, in some cases O2) but the selectivity, which is determined by Knudsen di<usion, was very modest; while some improve- ment has been gained, when compared with conventional reactors, this may be accounted for by the dilution e<ect of the sweeping gas (Collins et al., 1996). A large number of hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, and dehydrocondensa- tion reactions were tested in the early studies of dense-metal membrane reactors (see listing in Shu et al., 1991; Hsieh,1996; Gryaznov and Orekhova, 1998). Most demonstrated increased conversions in a metalmembrane reactor, when compared with a simple reactor.Our choice of model reaction, the dehydrogenation of isobutene, stems from the commercial interest in this design,as an alternative to the periodically regenerated Bxed-bed approach that is currently employed. This reaction, which requires relatively high temperatures, has been tested in a Pd-membrane reactor, achieving 78% conversion at 500C, compared with 32% at a closed-system equilibrium (Sheintuch and Dessau, 1996). Conversion could not be increased further by decreasing 5ow rate or by increasing temperature due to the fast deactivation in the absence of hydrogen and the higher rates of cracking and isomerization at low 5ow rates. Many works tested the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene as a model reaction since it can be carried out at low temperature with no side reactions and deactivation; a conversion of 99.5% was achieved with a palladium membrane, compared with 18.7% at equilibrium,at 200C (Itoh et al., 1992; Itoh and Wu, 1997).We brie5y review below two issues relevant to our study,the organization of streams and reactor modeling, before turning to review of transport mechanism: the membranes and catalysts in membrane reactors can be coupled as a packed bed or as a catalytically active membrane or even in a 5uidized bed (Saracco and Specchia, 1998). The mem- brane packed-bed reactor, which has been the most widely studied approach, allows to vary the catalyst loading and the membrane surface area almost independently in order to optimize the conditions (Hsieh, 1996). The driving force for reactant separation can be achieved either by imposing vacuum conditions on the other side of the membrane or by sweeping it with a stream of an inert, which can be operated in counter-current or cocurrent 5ow. Mohan and Govind (1988) pointed out that despite the fact that counter-current 5ow gives a better distribution along the membrane of the driving force for reactant transport, it can be disadvanta- geous in comparison to cocurrent 5ow when the residence time of the gases 5owing at opposite sides of the membrane is rather low. Under such conditions, a certain back di<u- sion of the products can take place at the membrane end where reactants are fed. The stirred chambers setup, adopted almost exclusively with 5at membranes, is particularly suit- able for very well-controlled di<usion and reaction tests, but it is probably of minor interest for practical membrane re- actor applications (Saracco and Specchia, 1998).Many studies have successfully simulated the observed behavior, in various membrane reactors and using indepen- dent kinetic and transport information; the applied mod- els were usually too speciBc and complex to allow a gen- eral analysis. The models commonly assume plug 5ow and isothermal conditions on the tube and shell sides. Simula- tions were applied to dehydrogenation of cyclohexane (Itoh,1995; Mohan and Govind, 1986, 1988; Sun and Khang,1988), of 1-butene in a dense-membrane reactor (Itoh and Govind, 1989), of n-butane in a porous-membrane reactor (Gokhale et al., 1993) or of isobutane in a Pd-membrane reactor (Sheintuch and Dessau, 1996), to ethane dehydro- genation and methane steam reforming in a packed bed re- actor (Tsotsis et al., 1992) or in a permselective membrane reactor (Gobina et al., 1995a,b) as well as ethyl-benzene dehydrogenation in dense and microporous membrane reac- tor. Carbon dioxide methanation in a reactor with water va- por permselective membrane was studied and simulated by Ohya et al. (1997). Reo et al. (1997) demonstrated, using mass-action kinetics, that the yield of a porous-membrane reactor o<ers no or little advantage over a diluted plug-5ow reactor; their simulation exhibit the existence of asymptotic solutions. Sheintuch (1998) analyzed the design of a packed tube and shell membrane reactor for a simple dehydrogena- tion reaction capitalizing on its fast reaction asymptote. If the reaction is suFciently fast so that, in the absence of side-reactions, local equilibrium is achieved for most of the reactor then the conversion shifts only due to hydrogen sep- aration. The same approach is applied below and we add the e<ect of nitrogen dilution to the analysis.
1.1. Transport mechanisms
The understanding of the transport and separation phe- nomena in carbon membranes is still largely incomplete since transport mechanisms vary with the pore size and na- ture and with molecule size, nature and shape due to the in- teraction between the transported species and the membrane material. Transport mechanisms inside membrane pores are
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
2015 usually classiBed into several regimes: obviously, viscous 5ow and molecular di<usion do not apply for nanopores;similarly, Knudsen di<usion, which ignores wall e<ects, ap- plies only for suFciently large pores. Selective adsorption onto the pore surface followed by surface di<usion of the adsorbed molecules lead to separation of the more strongly adsorbed component of a gas mixture, and is strongly de- pendent on temperature. A large number of studies (e.g., Kaganov and Sheintuch, 2003) considered the transport rates through molecular sieves, using tools like molecular dynam- ics and Monte-Carlo simulations. This approach will be be- yond the scope of the present study. To simulate the behavior we employ here permeabilities that were determined experi- mentally for an equimolar hydrogenisobutane atmospheric pressure on the shell side and nitrogen on the tube side and ignore the expected dependence of permeabilities on compo- sition (Sznejer et al., 2004). The membrane selectivity, the ratio of hydrogen to hydrocarbon permeabilities, may reach 1001000 in propane or in (normal or iso-) butane mixtures with hydrogen, making the membrane an excellent candi- date for a membrane dehydrogenation reactor. The 5uxes of pure components were studied under a pressure gradient and the permeabilities di<ered from those in mixtures: speciB- cally, counter di<usion of nitrogen and C2 to C4 alkanes sig- niBcantly inhibits the 5uxes of both, while hydrogen 5ux is only slightly diminished. Thus, permeabilities and selectiv- ities depend on composition and the assumption of constant permeabilities, employed here, may be erroneous.To account for these results we used (Sznejer et al., 2004) molecular mechanics simulations to Bnd the energetics of adsorption, di<usion and desorption of individual gases in cylindrical nanopores modeled by carbon nanotubes. In pore sizes that are up to 23 times the dimension of the molecule,di<usion of the molecule inside the pore is non-activated,while desorption is activated and typically is the rate lim- iting step; the molecular transport proceeds essentially by the single-Ble di<usion mechanism. A rate expression for a single-species transport in a molecular-sieve carbon mem- brane was derived by a mean-Beld approach expressing, in the general case, a nonlinear dependence on pressures. The pore size distribution was calculated by comparing experi- mental and computational data and compared favorably with the measured distribution.
2. Experimental
The experimental system (schematically illustrated in Fig. 1) incorporated a 30 cm hollow Bber carbon membrane module (Carbon Membranes LTD, Temed industrial park, Israel), composed of 100 Bbers each of 100 m in diameter with a 10  thick wall. The calculated membrane area of this module is about 150 cm2. The module was modiBed by casting it in a larger tube (of 7 mm i.d.) to allow for a free space (of 2 mm) between the tube and the membrane module, into which the catalyst pellets were loaded.
Fig. 1. Scheme of the carbon membrane reactor.
The gases enter in the shell side of the carbon membrane module and the permeate exit through the tubes (carbon Bbers). The 5ow rate of the entering gases was set and mea- sured by 5ow controllers. Driving force for di<usion through the membrane was achieved either by applying sweeping nitrogen in the Bbers or by evacuating the Bbers. The mem- brane module was heated to the working temperature by heating elements Btted in a metal cover outside the module.The temperature in the module was measured by several thermocouples. The carbon hollow Bbers were supported in the module edges by an epoxy glue. To overcome the over- heating of the membrane sealing, which is stable only up to 150C, a special air cooler was built in each module edge.The concentrations of eJuent gases in the permeate and the retentate streams were measured by a (Perkin-Elmer) gas chromatograph equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) for the inorganic compounds measurements,a 5ame ionization detector (FID) for the organic compounds,and two types of packed columns for separation (8 ft: 1 8
OD, SS column with Hayesep Q 80 100 packing and 7 ft: 1 8
OD, SS column with 0.19% picric acid on Graphpac-GC 80 100 packingAlltech). The 5ow rates of the exiting gases were measured by bubble columns.
After each experiment the catalyst was reactivated using nitrogen at 400C and then hydrogen at 500C; after several cycles of catalyst activation process the membrane proper- ties changed. Module edges were air-cooled, but their tem- perature was still around 80C when the reactor working temperature was high; consequently, module sealing started to leak after several cycles of heating and cooling. Due to this and other factors membrane modules were replaced during the work. To maintain the working conditions as constant as possible with all modules, the same type of membrane with the same pore activation procedure was used in all the modules and the same amount of catalyst was introduced.
Isobutane dehydrogenation was carried out using a chromia alumina catalyst (Engelhard, 0.51 mm in diameter). This catalyst was chosen out of several other catalysts because of its reported high performance and high selectivity.
3. Modeling and analysis
A schematic Bgure of the modeled system is shown in Fig. 2 for the mode of separation by a counter-currently 2016
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
pi  Fi Pi Fi iC4 i=C4  H2
N2
Fig. 2. Schematic membrane module for model calculations. sweeping nitrogen stream. We assume isothermal isobaric conditions, with plug 5ow on both sides of the membrane and ignore radial gradients. The issue of radial gradients was discussed in the literature: Radial e<ects were found to be important during cyclohexane dehydrogenation in high-permeability membranes (Koukou et al., 1996), while Gobina et al. (1995a) concluded that these e<ects are neg- ligible. We write Brst the general equations, before present- ing an asymptotic solution that is valid for an inBnitely fast reaction and then simulate the behavior for one particular set of parameters. The same model will be used below to corroborate experimental results.The change in the partial molar 5ows (Fj, mol/min) of component j [j = H2; iC4; i = C4; N2) in the shell (reac- tive) side or in the tube (j) is due to the reaction and the separation through the membrane:dFj dz = jR( P p)A sTj( P p; P
P);
dj dz = sTj( P p; P
P);
(1) where R is the reaction rate (mol=g min),  is the catalyst density (g=cm3), A is the cross section of the catalyst side (cm2) and s (cm) is the perimeter, j is the stoichiometric coeFcients. A typical inlet iC4H10 feed value (F0) is 4 × 104 mol=min and no other gases were fed; A typical inlet value for sweeping N2 (j) is 1×102 mol=min. In the inner membrane side no reaction occurs and the change in molar 5ow is only due to the separation through the membrane.
Tj is the general nonlinear function describing the 5ux of component j in terms of pi; Pi. If we limit the analysis to a linear dependence of Tj = kj(pj Pj) on the corresponding partial pressure gradient (where kj is the permeability for component i [mol=min atm cm2]), then dFiC4 dz = RA skiC4(piC4 PiC4);dFi=C4 dz = RA ski=C4(pi=C4 Pi=C4);dFH2 dz = RA skH2(pH2 PH2);dFN2 dz = skN2(pN2 PN2);diC4 dz = skiC4(piC4 PiC4); Table 1 Membrane permeabilities (cm3=atm min cm2) in i-butanehydrogen sys- tem using N2 as sweeping gas Temperature (C) kH2 kiC4H10 kN2 25
0.3185
0.0139
0.0247
100
0.5611
0.0102
0.0284
200
0.9802
0.0086
0.0533
300
1.1223
0.0032
0.0682
400
1.2336
0.0016
0.0749
di=C4 dz = ski=C4(pi=C4 Pi=C4);dH2 dz = skH2(pH2 PH2);dN2 dz = skN2(pN2 PN2):(2) Partial pressures are calculated by the ratio of the single-component 5ow by the total 5ow: Pi = i j
PT;
pi = Fj
F PS;
(3) where PT; PS denote the pressures on the tube and shell side.
The values of the catalyst density and the reactor cross-section area were taken from the experimental system and the values for membrane constants were determined in independent separation experiments (Sznejer et al., 2004) in similar modules and are listed below (Table 1, k in cm=(min atm)); the values for the desired temperature were determined by extrapolation of the data presented in an Ahrrenius plot.
We start with a qualitative analysis of the system that is based on the assumption of local equilibrium, or iden- tically on the assumption of an inBnitely fast reaction; in that case the conversion depends only on the transport prop- erties and selectivity. To simplify the analysis further as- sume that hydrocarbon transport is small compared with that of hydrogen and nitrogen, as was observed experimen- tally (Table 1), and that the sweeping rate of nitrogen is high, so that PH2 = 0, PN2 = PT = const. In that case, we can reduce the initial eight equations into two by noting that dFC4=dz = RA = dFiC4=dz or FC4 + FiC4 = F0,pj = Fj=F = Fj=(F0 + FH2 + FN2) and dFH2 dz = dFC4 dz skH2PS
FH2
F0 + FH2 + FN2
;dFN2 dz = skN2
PSFN2
F0 + FH2 + FN2
PT
:(4) Now, the equilibrium condition implies Ke
PS
= pi=C4pH2 RTpiC4 = Fi=C4FH2 RTFiC4
F
= (F0 FiC4)FH2 RTFiC4(F0 + FH2 + FN2):(5)
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
2017 Expressing FiC4 from the equation above and substituting into Eq. (4) yields the desired equations 1 f FiC4
F0
=
FH2
FH2 + K(F0 + FH2 + FN2);
K = RTKe=PS;dFH2 dz + dFiC4 dz = skH2PS
FH2
F0 + FH2 + FN2
;dFN2 dz = skN2
PSFN2
F0 + FH2 + FN2
PT
:(6) The problem can be reduced therefore to two ordinary di<erential equations in terms of two independent vari- ables, the accumulative maximal transport of hydrogen, Z = zskH2PS=F0, and the nitrogen to hydrogen selectivity = kN2=kH2; other parameters are the pressures at both side,which are set to PS = PT = 1 atm and the equilibrium con- stant. Note that Z is the dimensionless ratio of hydrogen transport potential (at 1 atm of gradient) to the feed 5ow rate and in our case the full length reactor (z = 30 cm) corresponds to Z 15. The dependent parameters can be expressed in terms of partial 5ows or in terms of conversion,realizing that f = 1 FiC4=F0:(7) Fig. 3 portrays these e<ects at 500C (at which the equi- librium closed-system conversion of 0.32 is assumed to be achieved instantaneously at the entrance) showing that hy- drogen descend show small sensitivity to  and most of the hydrogen has been transported at Z 10, but the transport rate of nitrogen and the resulting dilution e<ect is highly sensitive to .To demonstrate the e<ect of other parameters, the direc- tion of 5ow, the ratio of 5ow rates and the e<ect of kinetics we simulated Eq. (2), with realistic kinetics, for four dif- ferent operation modes: a PFR reactor (kN2 = kH2 = 0), a membrane reactor using N2 as sweeping gas in co-current or counter-current 5ow and a membrane reactor with vacuum as the driving force for separation. The counter-current 5ow calculations required an interactive form; a Matlab subrou- tine based on the shooting method was used.The rate of isobutane dehydrogenation is usually expressed as RiC4 = k(piC4 (PSpi=C4pH)=(KeRT)) D(piC4; pi=C4; pH) ;(8) where pi are the partial pressures and D accounts for the inhibition due to adsorption of products or reactants or due to coke precursors. Two groups of catalysts were usually tested: Pt catalysts, usually with Sn or In promoters, which were studied extensively (Kiperman et al., 1994; Casanave et al., 1999; Cortright et al., 1998) and chromia or sup- ported chromia catalyst, like that studied here. Zwahlen and Agnew (1992) studied the kinetics on a chromia alumina catalyst and expressed the rate by Eq. (8) with Fig.
3.
Simulation of hydrogen (x = FH2=F0) and nitrogen (y = FN2=F0) yields and isobutane conversion (f) for the asymptotic instantaneous-reaction model for various nitrogen to hydrogen transport selectivities ().D=1+KEHpiC4pH +KEpiC4 [k =8:9×105 exp(112=RT); Ke=1:4×106 exp(117=RT); KEH=1:2×106 exp(79=RT); KE = 2:5 × 10 exp(87=RT); RiC4 expressed in mol=(h g)].
The models also accounted for a Brst-order deactivation model with a concentration dependence. We employ this expression below.
One simulation (Fig. 4) for counter-current 5ow presents the partial 5ows, the real conversion deBned by Eq. (7), as well as the measured conversion (solid line, Fig. 4) that has been extensively used in previous studies and is deBned by the concentration change fm = 1 CiC4=C0, where C is the concentration and C0 is its feed value. The di<erence between the two deBnitions results from the dilution e<ect due to transport of nitrogen to the shell side. The conversion line shows a typical behavior of fast reactions: a jump to closed-system equilibrium near the inlet (32% for 500C),followed by a gradual change. Nitrogen dilution is signiB- cant, amounting to about 1 3 of the exit 5ow, but the trans- port of hydrocarbons is negligible. For such fast rates the asymptotic solution presented above is justiBed, as evident from Fig. 4. 2018
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
Fig.
4.
Simulated membrane performance with literature kinetics (Eq. (8)) in the sweeping gas counter-current 5ow mode at 500C.
Table 2 Exit conversions simulated for several operation modes and temperatures Temperature
PFR
Co- Counter- Vacuum
(C)
current current 450
0.186
0.487
0.521
0.539
500
0.324
0.741
0.799
0.808
550
0.496
0.897
0.951
0.951
The simulated exit conversions are summarized in Table 2. The conversion is higher at the counter-current mode than at the co-current mode. Nitrogen transport in these two operation modes dilutes the product stream, so one or more separation steps will be needed to achieve a clean product stream. The conversion in the vacuum mode is the highest achieved.
4. Experimental results and discussion
Fig. 5 presents the conversion in a simple PFR (no sweep- ing on the tube side) showing that equilibrium has not been achieved. The reaction selectivity at both temperatures is al- most perfect and no side reactions were detected. Catalyst deactivation is not negligible and at 500C the conversion declined by 34% after Bve hours. The experimental data were Btted, using Matlab parameter Btting subroutines, with a reaction rate expression of the form RiC4 = C1(piC4 (PSpi=C4pH=KeRT)) (1 + C2pi=C4) (mol=h g);(9) 0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0 10000 20000 30000 w/FAo [g min/mol] conversion 450 500 equilibrium T=500C equilibrium T=450C Fig. 5. Reaction conversion achieved in the PFR mode (i.e., no separation) using a chromia catalyst at various temperatures as a function of initial molar 5ows.
Table 3 Reaction rate constants estimated from PFR experimental results Temperature (C)
C1
C2
450
6:085E 04
17.645
500
4:312E 03
11.103
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.0E+00
5.0E-04
1.0E-03
1.5E-03
flow [mol/min] f counter vacuum model
PFR
Fig. 6. Membrane-reactor conversion, in the counter-current and vacuum modes, as a function of feed molar 5ows at 450C; also denoted are the PFR conversion and the simulated counter-current-mode behavior. where Ke is equilibrium constant and C1 and C2 are constants (listed in Table 3). The deviation between experimental and calculated conversion is less than 1%.
Two types of operation modes were studied at 450C and 500C (Figs. 6 and 7): a membrane reactor with nitrogen as counter-current sweeping gas in the tube-side in or with the Bbers under vacuum as a driving force for membrane separation. At lower temperatures the reaction was almost negligible and at higher temperatures the membrane module was not stable.
The conversions increased as the feed 5ow declined in both operating modes. Increasing spacetime allows for
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
2019
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0E+00
5.0E-04
1.0E-03
1.5E-03
flow [mol/min] f counter vacuum model
PFR
Fig. 7. Membrane-reactor conversion, in the counter-current and vacuum modes, as a function of feed molar 5ows at 500C; also denoted are the PFR conversion and the simulated counter-current-mode behavior. higher contact time between the catalyst and the membrane leading to higher conversions but also to higher yields of undesired products; no side reactions were detected during the experiments with the chromia catalyst, not even at low feed 5ow rate.
The obtained membrane-reactor conversions are com- pared with the simple PFR conversions and not with the equilibrium conversions, since equilibrium has not been reached in the PFR (Fig. 5). The conversion achieved in the counter-current 5ow operation method is the highest amongst all modes with a maximum of 85% at 500C. The signiBcant conversion improvement in the sweeping gas mode is in part a result of nitrogen transport and dilution.
In this operation mode nitrogen makes as much as 1 2 of the exiting shell-side stream.
The conversions obtained in the vacuum mode are lower than those in the sweeping gas mode but still above the ones achieved in the PFR. The maximum conversion in this mode is 40% at 500C compared with 30% in PFR. No dilution occurs in this system so that all the improvement is due hydrogen separation.
Predictions of a model of the membrane reactor in the sweeping gas mode, using kinetic parameters obtained from Btting the PFR data (Table 3) and transport parameters that were determined experimentally (Table 1), underestimate the experimental results (Figs. 6 and 7). The predictions are closer to the results achieved in the vacuum system. The dis- crepancy can be explained by the inaccuracy of the transport model and the variation in membrane constants in di<er- ent membrane units. The discrepancy is likely the result of the assumption of constant transport selectivities. Better and practical models for predicting these properties are required and preliminary analysis suggests that the permeabilities are not constant and their dependence on gas-phase composition is highly nonlinear. Membrane constants used in the simula- tions were determined using a membrane unit other than the one used in the reactor experiments. Although the prepara- tion procedures are similar for all membranes, some varia- tion in pore diameters occurred. These changes do not sig- niBcantly a<ect hydrogen or hydrocarbons transport through the membrane because the resistance to hydrogen transport is small while very little of the isobutane is transported; on the other hand, the resistance to nitrogen transport is inter- mediate and will be a<ected by small changes in pore size distribution.
5. Concluding remarks
This research tests a membrane-reactor equipped with a molecular-sieve carbon membrane, using isobutane dehy- drogenation as a model reaction. This membrane is a highly selective and relatively inexpensive candidate for applica- tion in a membrane reactor. The novelty of this study is in the proposed application at relatively high temperatures; very few studies tested carbon membrane reactors and a previous work tested it for cyclohexane dehydrogenation at 200C.
The conversions achieved in the counter-current 5ow op- eration method were higher than in all other modes (up to 85% at 500C) but this improvement is in part a result of nitrogen transport and dilution. The conversions obtained in the vacuum mode show modest gains above the ones re- ceived in the PFR (40% vs. 30% at 500C). These results were compared with simulations that used the experimen- tally determined transport parameters. The discrepancy may be due to experimental factors, but may also result from the assumption of constant transport selectivities, that was in- corporated into the model. Better and practical models for predicting these properties are required.
As stated in the Introduction, successful implementation of the membrane reactor for dehydrogenation reaction may replace the currently used periodically regenerated Bxed bed reactor. The oxidative regeneration removes carbon deposits and reheats the catalyst, and cannot be implemented with a carbon membrane. We expect that the faster operation in a membrane reactor will allow to run it at much lower temper- atures than currently employed in a Bxed bed unit. That will slow or even eliminate the deactivation process; a similar study in a Pd membrane reactor allowed to operate the reac- tor for 80 h at high conversion and without signiBcant de- activation (Sheintuch and Dessau, 1996). Regeneration can also be implemented with hydrogen under pressure. Since the adiabatic temperature rise for complete conversion is extremely high, and heat cannot be supplied by oxidation reactions (like oxidative regeneration) in this carbon mem- brane, the enthalpy to the reactor should be implemented via preheating and inter-stage heating units. These units should be cross-5ow reactors with the reaction stream on one-side and an oxidation reaction on the other.
The economics of this process will depend, among other factors, on the properties on the membrane, as re5ected in its permeability and selectivity, as well as on hydrogen eco- nomics. The ideal membrane should be inexpensive, highly 2020
G. Sznejer, M. Sheintuch / Chemical Engineering Science 59 (2004) 20132021
permeable to hydrogen and impermeable to nitrogen and hydrocarbon. Operating with a sweeping stream of nitrogen led to undesired increase in conversion due to dilution; even if nitrogen permeation could be avoided the dilution of hy- drogen will reduce its economic contribution. The best oper- ation should be under a pressure gradient, so that hydrogen can be collected at least at atmospheric pressure. Simulat- ing all these options requires a detailed model for transport.Transport experiments conducted under vacuum (in the tube side) showed poor selectivity due to hydrocarbon transport (Sznejer et al., 2004). Consequently, we expect poor re- sults in the membrane reactor as well. Whether better re- sults could be achieved under pressure (with atmospheric pressure on tube side) will await further experimentation or better modeling of transport.
The reactor performance can be improved either by in- creasing the catalyst loading, when permeability is high, or by increasing the membrane area or permeability when ki- netics is fast. Analysis of the asymptotic solution for instan- taneous reaction (i.e., inBnite loading) vs. the membrane area (or hydrogen permeability, Z, which for the current re- actor is Z 15), demonstrates that permeability is not lim- iting the process. The most important improvement should be in improving and understanding transport selectivity.
Notation
A
cross section of catalyst side, cm2 f conversion Fj partial molar 5ow of component j on the shell side, gmol=min Ke equilibrium coeFcient, cm3=gmol Kj adsorption coeFcient of component j; atm1 k rate constant, gmol=h gcat kj permeability of component j; mol=min atm cm2 pj; Pj partial pressure of component j on the shell and tube side, respectively, atm
PT; PS
total pressure on tube and shell sides, respec- tively, atm
R
reaction rate expression, gmol=h gcat s perimeter, cm Tj transport rate expression of component j; gmol=min cm2 z; Z dimensional (cm) and dimensionless reactor co- ordinate, respectively Greek letters j Stoichiometric coeFcient of component j
nitrogen to hydrogen permeability ratio
catalyst density, g=cm3 j partial molar 5ow of component j on the tube side, mol=min


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How have recent economic factors, particularly the surge in shale gas production, influenced the development and adoption of dehydrogenation technologies in olefin production, and what are the key technological advancements, current limitations, and areas for improvement that need to be addressed to enhance the efficiency, sustainability, and industrial viability of these processes?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 