I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Properties of TmPt(1 1 1) surface alloys Abstract Formation of surface alloys by annealing of thin Tm layers which were deposited on Pt(1 1 1) are investigated by photoemission and low energy electron diffraction (LEED). In addition, adsorption of CO was studied by temperature programmed desorption (TPD). For deposition of more than a monolayer of Tm, a (2 × 2) LEED pattern forms upon heating the sample to 600 C. The appearance of the (2 × 2) pattern is assigned to alloy formation (thick alloy). The Tm 5p and 4f core levels show shifts of 0.8 eV to lower binding energies upon alloying, while the major Tm 4d multiplet shows a 1.1 eV shift to lower binding energy. These Tm shifts are interpreted to be caused by different coordination in the alloys. The present experiments indicate that the surface of the alloy is Pt enriched. For Tm coverages of less than about one monolayer a modified (1 × 1) LEED pattern is observed (thin alloy). The core level shifts as observed for the thick alloy is not seen for the thin alloy. Finally, the work function of a thick evaporated Tm film was measured to be 3.3 eV.
1. Introduction
Rare earths (RE) and their intermetallic compounds exhibit a variety of interesting physical phenomena, e.g. strongly correlated electron effects, magnetism, and superconductivity. Other properties of the rare earth series include low workfunction and low surface free energy. The latter property suggests that RE may be suited for formation of surface alloys, since the RE may have a tendency to be located near the surface and not be dissolved in the bulk. One particular topic of interest is the modification of surface reactivity by alloy formation, which is of relevance for corrosion as well as catalytic properties.
Here we report on a study of thin Tm layers on a Pt(1 1 1) substrate. The sample was annealed in order to form ordered surface alloys. Several TmPt intermetallic compounds are known to exist [1] ,[2] . Previous experiments have shown that solid state reactions occur when RE metals are deposited on a variety of metallic substrates even at ambient temperatures [3] ,[4] ,[5] . Due to the occurrence of homogeneous mixed valence in compounds [2] based on the RE earths Ce, Sm, Eu, Tm and Yb, these elements may be of particular interest. In this study predominantly trivalent Tm is observed.
In a previous work, the formation of an ordered LaPt(1 1 1) surface alloy was observed when a La on Pt overlayer system was annealed to 900 K. An analysis of thermal desorption spectra of CO from Pt and LaPt showed that the desorption energy was considerably lower in the case of the surface alloy, accompanied by an apparent shift of the centre of gravity of the d-band towards the Fermi-level [6] . The relative inertness to contamination in the vacuum chamber of the related CePt(1 1 1) system was also previously noted [7] ,[8] . On the other hand, in the LaRh(1 0 0) system recently studied, the CO desorption temperatures (and hence the desorption energies) were observed to increase [9] ,[10] , while the centre of gravity of the d-band made an apparent shift towards higher binding energies [9] . In this case, it was concluded that ordered alloys which consist of domains were formed, possibly introducing another complex mechanisms related to CO adsorption. One hypothesis, is that the 5σd band interaction is important in the CO adsorption on the rare earth Pt(1 1 1) systems. The presence of such strong resonant interactions of d band states in Pt and the 5σ orbital in CO [11] facilitates tuning of adsorption properties by changing the electronic structure of the catalytic active surface by alloy formation.
This work presents aspects of formation of TmPt(1 1 1) surface alloys including some structural and electronic properties, as well as CO adsorption studies.
2. Experimental
The photoemission measurements were performed in the home laboratory using a hemispherical SES 2002 electron energy analyser (Gammadata Scienta). For X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) a monochromatized Al Kα X-ray source (Gammadata Scienta) was used to get the exciting radiation. For ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) a He discharge lamp with a toroidal mirror monochromator (SPECS) was used. In the present experiment the total energy resolution for XPS and UPS was estimated to be about 0.4 and 0.1 eV, respectively, as determined from the width of the Fermi edge. Binding energies were calibrated by measuring the position of the Fermi edge. All spectra were measured in angle integrated mode around normal emission.
The temperature programmed desorption (TPD) spectra were recorded using a Transpector mass-spectrometer (Leybold-Inficon). The heating rate was 2 K/s, controlled by using a Eurotherm controller. The vacuum chamber was pumped by a 500 l/s turbo-molecular pump and a 240 l/s ion pump. It was assumed that the pumping rate of the vacuum chamber was so large that the signal from the mass spectrometer could be assumed to be proportional to the desorption rate.
The Pt(1 1 1) crystal was resistively heated and cooled by liquid nitrogen down to about 190 C. The temperature was measured by a thermocouple that was spot-welded to the rear of the sample. The Pt(1 1 1) crystal surface was cleaned by repeated cycles of Ar+ sputtering (15 min room temperature and 15 min 700 C), oxygen annealing at 1 × 108 Torr at 640 C for 5 min, and flash annealing to 1000 C in UHV. The cleanliness of the surface was verified by XPS. The ordering of the surface was studied by low energy electron diffraction (LEED). Tm was deposited from an evaporation source that consisted of a thermally heated tungsten basket that was thoroughly out-gassed before use. The deposition was performed with the Pt substrate at room temperature, and in certain cases with the substrate at liquid nitrogen temperature, where indicated. The effective thickness of the as-deposited Tm layer was estimated from the attenuation of the intensity of the Pt 4f core levels. The electron mean free path was in this work estimated to λ = 20 Å. We estimate the coverage in monolayers (ML) by assuming in the as-deposited case closed packed Tm on Pt with layer thickness estimated to be 3.5 Å, i.e. using the metallic radius of Tm. The photoemission intensity for all spectra was normalised to the background, and the formation of the different stages of the alloy was studied at different temperatures up to 900 C.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. LEED
Relatively diffuse LEED patterns were observed for Tm on Pt(1 1 1). Upon annealing slowly to 600 C of a sample having an effective Tm coverage of one to two monolayers, a diffuse (2 × 2) LEED pattern started forming around 550 C. The LEED spots appeared at the sharpest around 600700 C, Fig. 1 a. This pattern was stable to approximately 750 C. The photoemission results (see below), indicated a Pt enriched surface. As the sample was heated to 800 C, a more diffuse pattern consisting of multiple spots around the (1 × 1) reflexes appeared, Fig. 1 b. This structure will be denoted (1 × 1)+ in this paper. The latter LEED pattern did not form until the sample was heated to 900 C when more than about two monolayers (ML) Tm were deposited. The photoemission results (see below), indicated a considerable loss of the Tm 4d intensity, and the (1 × 1)+ LEED pattern was assigned to a submonolayer (thin) alloy, forming upon annealing to 900 C.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. (a) (2 × 2) LEED pattern from a 2 ML thick Tm layer after annealing to 700 C, and (b) (1 × 1)+ LEED pattern for a 2 ML thick Tm layer after annealing to 850 C, showing multiple split (1 × 1) spots.
It is difficult to interpret the structure of the thin surface alloy. The (1 × 1)+ pattern consists of a multiple spot structure around the (1 × 1) reflexes. The images are rather diffuse but may be interpreted to correspond to an (8 × 8) superstructure that may correspond to a domain structure [12] . When heating the sample to 800 C the photoemission intensities indicated less Tm in the surface alloy, caused either by evaporation of Tm from the top layer or solution into the bulk.
3.2. Photoemission
The attenuation of the intensity of the Pt 4f core levels was used to estimate the amount of deposited Tm. The core level intensities Tm 4d, Tm 5p, Pt 4f and the intensity of the two strongest Tm 4f multiplets were monitored during the annealing of the sample and used as indicators for alloying. The Pt 4f core levels showed small shifts from the clean sample of about 0.2 eV to lower binding energy after deposition of Tm, but no substantial shifts where observed after annealing. The Tm 4d, 5p and 4f levels all showed large shifts to lower binding energies of about 1.1, 0.8 and 0.8 eV; respectively, upon annealing to 600 C. In addition, UPS using He-I and He-II radiation was used to monitor the valence band. Finally, the work function was recorded during alloy formation. In the following section we will describe in more detail some of the experimental observations.
3.2.1. Core level intensities
Fig. 2 gives the variation in the core level intensities of Pt 4f and Tm 4d as a function of annealing temperature. The layer was estimated to have an effective thickness of 2.3 ML. It is observed that the Pt 4f intensity (shown by hollow squares, right axis in Fig. 2 ) increases up to 500 C. From 600 to 700 C, the Pt 4f intensity appears to increase more slowly. Upon heating to 800 and 900 C, the Pt 4f intensity increases more strongly. The Tm 4d intensity is nearly constant from room temperature (RT) up to 500 C. After further annealing the Tm 4d intensity drops nearly linearly with temperature. The observed LEED patterns in the different regions are indicated in the figure.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Intensity variation of Pt 4f and Tm 4d core levels for a 2.3 ML as-deposited layer, using Al Kα radiation. The regions for the observed LEED pattern are indicated in the figure.
The gradual changes in core level intensities, Fig. 2 , upon heating to 600 C, are interpreted as an indication of interdiffusion of Tm and Pt atoms. The (2 × 2) alloy formation at 500 C, may be due to the energy barrier required for restructuring the surface. As the temperature is raised towards 800900 C the upper layers of Tm atoms appear to either evaporate or dissolve, thereby leaving less than a monolayer of Tm at the surface, and the modified (1 × 1)+ LEED pattern appears.
3.2.2. XPSvalence band
The 4f levels of rare earths have been extensively studied in the literature [13] ,[14] ,[15] ,[16] ,[17] ,[18] .
Fig. 3 shows the valence band spectra recorded at room temperature after deposition of a Tm layer of estimated effective thickness of 2.3 ML. The bottom curve in Fig. 3 shows as a reference the XPS (Al Kα) valence band spectrum of clean Pt(1 1 1). The next curve shows the as-deposited Tm/Pt(1 1 1) at liquid nitrogen temperature. The remaining graphs show the valence band spectra recorded after annealing the Tm/Pt(1 1 1) system to 300, 600, 800, 850 and 900 C, from bottom to top, respectively. It is noted from Fig. 3 that only trivalent valence states [16] ,[17] are observed. The divalent Tm emission would be located in the binding energy region 02 eV in the valence band [17] and about 5 eV to lower binding energies relative to the trivalent emission for the 4d core levels [19] . It is noted, that thick divalent Tm layers has been reported for deposition at 13 K, which transformed into a trivalent layer upon heating to room temperatures [17] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. XPS intensity recorded using Al Kα radiation, of the valence band from a 2.3 ML as-deposited Tm layer on Pt(1 1 1), including the reference spectrum recorded from clean Pt(1 1 1) (bottom figure). The annealing temperature and the observed LEED pattern are indicated in the figure.
The positions of the main peaks in the trivalent 4f multiplet are labelled α, β and γ in Fig. 3 , corresponding to multiplets 4I15/2, 2K15/2 and 2L17/2 respectively [16] . As the sample is heated to 600 C, shifts of approximately 0.8 eV towards lower binding energies relative to the as-deposited sample are observed for peaks α and β. The peak denoted γ becomes superposed on the bulk Pt d band peak and is not resolved. As the sample is further annealed to 800 C (for 12 ML Tm thickness), and 900 C (for thicknesses of 24 ML) a shift of approximately 0.9 eV back to higher binding energy of the 4f multiplet takes place. Note that at 850 C, for the 2.3 ML thick alloy, there appears to be a mixture of the two main states described above, at binding energies 711 eV in Fig. 3 . This may be due to a superposition of patches consisting of the TmPt bulk alloy (i.e. more than a monolayer of Tm coverage), and patches with less than a monolayer coverage of Tm.
The bottom curve in Fig. 4 shows the XPS (Al Kα) valence band reference spectra for clean Pt(1 1 1), while the remaining graphs, from the bottom towards the top, shows the 0.6 ML thick Tm/Pt(1 1 1) layer as-deposited and annealed to 500, 600, 700 and 800 C. The temperatures and the observed LEED patterns are indicated in Fig. 4 . The most notable change is the absence of the shift to lower binding energies at 600 C, as observed for the thicker alloy in Fig. 3 .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. The XPS valence band of a 0.6 ML thick Tm/Pt(1 1 1) layer recorded using Al Kα radiation.
3.2.3. Core level shifts
The Tm 4d core level has a multiplet structure due to 4f4d interactions [19] ,[20] . The variation of the Tm 4d core levels as a function of annealing temperature of the 2.3 ML thick Tm/Pt(1 1 1) layer, is shown in Fig. 5 . The main Tm 4d multiplet peak shifts by about 1.1 eV towards lower binding energy when heating the sample to 600 C. Subsequently, by heating the sample to 900 C, the peak shifts back by about 1.0 eV to higher binding energy relative to the peak position at 600 C. The shifts for the Tm 4d core level are approximately 0.2 eV larger than the shifts observed for the main 4f multiplet.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. XPS intensity of the Tm 4d core level of a 2.3 ML thick as-deposited Tm layer on Pt(1 1 1). The bottom spectrum shows as-deposited Tm at RT. The remaining spectra show the layer heated to 300, 500, 600, 700, 800 and 900 C. The observed LEED-patterns are indicated in the figure.
Similar to the shifts observed for core level positions of Tm 4d and the 4f multiplet, we observed a distinct shift in the Tm 5p core level position by 0.8 eV towards lower binding energy when heating to 600 C. Subsequently, by heating the sample to 900 C, the peak shifts back by about 0.9 eV to higher binding energy relative to the peak position at 600 C. The observed core level shifts to lower binding energies upon annealing the Tm/Pt(1 1 1) to 600 C, are thus fingerprints of the formation of the (2 × 2) LEED thick alloy. Furthermore, the backward shifts upon annealing to 800900 C, are fingerprints of the (1 × 1)+ LEED thin alloy.
It is noted that the large core level shifts observed for the trivalent TmPt thick alloy are very interesting in the view of the final state chemical shift model [15] . In terms of the general trend described in Fig. 6 of Ref.
[15] for a selection of rare earth compounds, such large bulk shifts have only previously been reported for the mixed valence or the divalent state. We speculate that the contraction of the molar volume in the tetravalent photoemission final state is the reason for the large observed core level shifts for trivalent Tm in the TmPt alloy. The +0.9 eV relative shift to higher energies upon heating to (1 × 1)+, i.e. 800900 C, indicates, as a consequence, reduced coordination of Tm atoms in the thin TmPt alloy.
3.2.4. UPS valence band region
Due to photo-ionization cross section variations the UPS of the valence band region are mainly sensitive to the d electrons when using He-I radiation, and hence the Tm 4f multiplets are not readily observed [21] .
Fig. 6 shows the UPS spectra (angle integrated around normal emission) recorded from a 1.2 ML as-deposited Tm layer on Pt(1 1 1). The bottom figure shows the He-I spectrum recorded from clean Pt(1 1 1). The next spectrum is from the as-deposited Tm/Pt(1 1 1) sample at RT. The remaining spectra from the bottom to the top, show the HeI photoemission from the sample after annealing to 500, 600, 700 and 800 C. The LEED pattern, temperature and corresponding change in work function are indicated in Fig. 6 . We note that the work function for a 20 Å thick Tm layer was measured to be 3.3 eV.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. UPS using He-I, of a 1.2 ML thick as-deposited Tm layer on Pt(1 1 1) as a function heating. The bottom figure is the clean Pt(1 1 1) as a reference. The remaining spectra from bottom to top shows the Tm/Pt(1 1 1) layer as-deposited (RT), at 500, 600, 700 and 800 C. The temperature, change in work function and observed LEED pattern are indicated in the figure.
It is observed from Fig. 6 , that the valence band DOS of the as-deposited layer at RT appears to be shifted towards higher binding energies compared to clean Pt(1 1 1). Upon heating the sample, the intensity of the state denoted [A] increases towards a maximum at 600 C, with a slight shift towards lower binding energies. When the sample is heated to 800 C, the state [A] appears to transform into a new set of states which we denote [B] in the figure. However, at 700800 C the original state [C] of clean Pt(1 1 1) reappears, which may indicate enrichment of Pt at the surface. We note that at 800 C, the states at [B] which arise from the alloy surface are shifted towards the Fermi-level. It is also noted that the work function for the as-deposited sample is reduced by almost 2 eV, and subsequently increases as the temperature is increased. In fact, at 700900 C the work function of the system is higher than the one measured for the pure Pt(1 1 1) sample.
The PtTm phase diagram shows that several different bulk compounds exist [2] . The relatively diffuse LEED patterns may be related to the large number of possible compounds that may form. It is unclear which compounds are most likely to form at the surface, but we note from the phase diagram that only TmPt and TmPt3 seem to have vertical composition lines that extent all the way to the liquidsolid interface. The relatively high values of the work function, Fig. 6 , for both the (2 × 2) and (1 × 1)+ alloys suggest that the outermost atomic layer is Pt-rich.
3.3. CO adsorption
The adsorption/desorption properties of the surface alloy with respect to CO were monitored by temperature programmed desorption (TPD), and also by recording the C 1s core level intensity as function of temperature. The TPD experiments were performed subsequent to a CO dose of 6 L (1 L = 1 × 106 Torr s) at liquid nitrogen temperatures.
Fig. 7 shows the observed thermal desorption spectra in the temperature range 150850 K for the clean Pt(1 1 1) substrate, the (2 × 2) alloy which was formed by annealing to 600 C, and the (1 × 1)+ alloy which was formed by annealing in the temperature range 800900 C. The TPD spectrum for CO on clean Pt(1 1 1) shows a broad feature located between 300 and 550 K, centered at approximately 400 K. The TPD spectrum for the (2 × 2) TmPt alloy is much broader, ranging from 200 to 550 K, and centered at approximately 400 K. We observed three distinct peaks at approximately 327, 390 and 470 K. These peaks have been denoted Z3, Z2 and Z1, respectively, in Fig. 7 . In the TPD scan from CO on the (1 × 1)+ alloy, the main peak is located at 320 K with an additional shoulder at the low temperature side near 280 K. The centre of the TPD spectrum for CO on (1 × 1)+ is located near 310 K, which is about 90 K below the centre of the TPD trace from CO on clean Pt(1 1 1). Related observations were previously made for the La/Pt(1 1 1) and Ce/Pt(1 1 1) systems [6] ,[7] ,[8] . The core level intensities of the C 1s emission were consistent with the behaviour as described above. In addition, the measured binding energy of the C 1s core level was indicative of molecular CO, which was also confirmed by UPS (He-II) from the valence band region.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. TPD spectra of CO on clean Pt(1 1 1) (hollow circles), CO on (2 × 2) TmPt alloy (full squares), and CO on (1 × 1)+ TmPt alloy (full triangles). Z1, Z2 and Z3 indicate the main peaks in the TPD trace from CO on the (2 × 2) TmPt alloy.
Multiple peak structures in TPD may be caused by sites of different desorption energies, but may also be caused by lateral interactions among the adsorbed species on a surface. In fact, recent Monte-Carlo simulations [22] have demonstrated that adsorbateadsorbate interactions may result in distinct peak structures in the desorption spectra, such as e.g. the Z1Z3 in Fig. 7 . On the other hand, the comparison between the valence band spectra in Fig. 6 , and the TPD spectra in Fig. 7 , leads to interesting observations in conjunction with the model of Hammer et al.
[23] . For the thick (2 × 2) alloy, there is only a small shift of the centre of gravity of the d-band towards higher binding energies. As proposed in previous reports on the La/Pt(1 1 1) alloy [6] , in order to apply the concepts from the model of Hammer et al.
[23] , one must presume that the CO adsorption is rather dominated by the 5σd band interaction [11] , whereas the dominating coupling is normally the 2π*d band interaction [23] . In this view, the main coupling must be from the tail of the d-band [11] . In the case of the thin (1 × 1)+ alloy, the centre of gravity of the d-band moves towards the Fermi-level, due to the additional spectral weight at [B], see top spectrum in Fig. 6 , while the state [C] is unmodified compared to clean Pt(1 1 1). It is proposed that the 5σd band interaction moves out of resonance, and may thus be responsible for the 90 K downshift (with reference to to clean Pt(1 1 1)) of the centre of the TPD spectra resulting from CO on the (1 × 1)+ alloy. In order for such issues to be resolved through calculations, more structural information from e.g. the La/Pt(1 1 1), Ce/Pt(1 1 1) and Tm/Pt(1 1 1) alloys are required, including information related to strain [24] .
4. Summary
In this study we have applied XPS, UPS, LEED and TPD to investigate the formation of and CO adsorption/desorption properties of a Tm/Pt(1 1 1) surface alloy. For Tm overlayer thicknesses of more than about one ML, ordered alloys exhibiting (2 × 2) LEED patterns were observed to form at 600 C. The formation of the alloy is accompanied by shifts in the range 0.81.1 eV to lower binding energies of the Tm 4d, 5p and 4f12 core levels and multiplet lines. These shifts are taken as an indication of changed coordination due to the formation of TmPt alloys. Another LEED pattern forms as the alloy is further heated to 800900 C. This LEED pattern is a modified and relatively diffuse (1 × 1) pattern were the (1 × 1) reflexes consist of multiple spots. The formation of the latter alloy is accompanied by a 0.9 eV shift (relative to the 2 × 2 alloy) towards higher binding energies of the Tm 4d, 5p and 4f12 core levels and multiplet lines. The photoemission and work function results indicate that the surface of the alloys is Pt enriched.
The CO desorption from the alloy exhibiting the (2 × 2) LEED pattern occurs in the same temperature range as for CO on clean Pt(1 1 1). However, the desorption temperature for CO on the alloy exhibiting the modified (1 × 1) LEED pattern, was lowered by 80100 K compared to CO on clean Pt(1 1 1). This result is similar to previous observations of thermal desorption of CO from the La/Pt(1 1 1) system.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 