<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The literature does not provide specific information on how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. However, it does mention that boron species anchored to the zeolite matrix in the form of open coordination, facilitated by ample SiOH groups on the surface, are crucial for the catalytic efficiency. The isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones during the ODHP process, which are closely related to the increased catalytic activity. The BOH groups in aggregated BOx species that hydrogen bond with adjacent SiOH groups are identified as the active center and high efficiency in catalyzing ODHP reaction at low temperature. No relevant quotes were found in the literature to answer the question about how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The literature does not provide specific information on how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. However, it does highlight the importance of defect boron sites in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, and aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. The literature also suggests that enabling boron species to be uniformly anchored to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may be a feasible way to construct highly active boron centers. The literature does not provide information on how the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, nor does it discuss how understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. No relevant quotes were found in the literature to answer the question about how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          文献没有具体说明B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度如何影响丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应的性能。但是，它确实提到，以开放配位形式锚定在沸石基质上的硼物种，由表面丰富的SiOH基团促进，对于催化效率至关重要。在ODHP过程中，孤立的硼物种动态转化为聚集态，这与催化活性的增加密切相关。与相邻SiOH基团形成氢键的聚集BOx物种中的BOH基团被鉴定为活性中心，并在低温下催化ODHP反应具有高效率。在文献中没有找到与B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度(1-D,2-D和3-D)如何影响其在丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应中的性能,以及理解这些位点的独特性质和反应机制,特别是1-D边缘活性位点,如何有助于设计更有效的催化剂以供商业应用相关的问题的适用引述。文献没有提供B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度如何影响丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应性能的具体信息。但是，它确实强调了缺陷硼位点在催化ODHP反应中的重要性，聚合硼物种在丙烷的CH键活化方面比孤立物种更有效。文献还建议，使硼物种均匀地锚定在富含羟基的MFI型沸石基质上，以寡聚形式，可能是构建高活性硼中心的可行方法。文献没有提供关于B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度（1-D，2-D和3-D）如何影响其在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中的性能的信息，也没有讨论了解这些位点的独特性质和反应机制，特别是1-D边缘活性位点，如何有助于设计更有效的催化剂以供商业应用。在文献中没有找到与B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度(1-D,2-D和3-D)如何影响其在丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应中的性能,以及理解这些位点的独特性质和反应机制,特别是1-D边缘活性位点,如何有助于设计更有效的催化剂以满足商业应用相关的问题的适用引用。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
