I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Sulphur/ Halogen Promoted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Hydrocarbons
1. S .  PASTERNAK and M .  VADEKAR
Research Department, Imperial Oil Enterprises Ltd., Sarnia, Ontario lodine is known to be an efficient promoter for the oxidative dehydrogenation of a wide variety of hydro- carbons. However, because of its high cost attempts have been made to reduce or eliminate it from the reaction system while still achieving high product yields.Theoretical considerations (thermodynamic and mech- anistic) will be presented to show that it should be possible to use sulphur alone or together with chlorine and/or bromine in place of iodine or iodine/halogen mixtures in the oxidative dehydrogenation of different hydrocarbons.
These considerations indieate that high product yields should also be possible with the new system if suitable ratalysts are used. n reccnt years oxidative processing of hydrocarbons has
I
assoincd great importancc in the pctrochcmical industry. A brief survey of literature indicates that oxidative processes such as: (a) ainnioxidation of propylcnc to acrylonitrile, (h) oxidation of ethylene to ethylene oxide, and C c ) ethylene oxidation (via the Wacker process) to acetaldehyde and vinyl acetate have been dewloped into major commercial processes (1.Much attention has also hcen given to the selective, oxidative de- hydrogenation of alkanes and alkenes to produce olefinic and diolefinic monomers.Conventionally the production of olefins and diolefins has been carried out by thermal dehydrogenation using suitable catalysts. I n  the latter process the main reaction is equilibrium lirnitcd and low pcr-pass yields are obtained. Thus in the thcrmal dehydrogenation of butane, for example, using a chromia-on- alumina catalyst, butadiene yields of approximately 20% are obtaincd (*). Oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, on the other hand, are not equilibrium limited since a thermodynamically stable product (H20) is usually formed along with the olefinic product. However when oxygen alone is used as the hydrogen abstractor, in the prcscnce of different catalysts, low product yiclds are ohrained due to the occrrence of uncontrolled corn- bustion rcactions with the formation of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide.A significant advance was made in the oxidative dehydro- genation technology when the Shell group of companies achieved success in the iodine promoted dehydrogenation of butene to butadiene ( 3 - 4 ) .  Shortly thereafter, Petro-Tex Chemical Corp. ( 5 ) obtained patents on an oxydehydrogenation process using iodine as well as bromine and chlorine as thc promoters. Both the Shell and Pctro-Tex proccsscs allowed up to 709;) butadiene yields from butane and higher than 8 0 y o
once-through butadiene yields from tnitenc. Moreover it was noted by Petro-Tcx that of thc thrcc halogcn pronioters used. iodine was thc most effective producing highest once-through yields ( - 807,) when present in smallest molar ratios, i.e. 0.001-0.002 tnole I2 p x  mole hydrocarbon feed. Bromine and chlorine were less effective when On sait que liode est un agent efficace dactivation dans la dhshydroghnation par oxydation, en prhsence de cata- lyseur, dune grande varihth dhydrocarbures ;cependant, i i
cause de son codt Clevh, on a essay6 de lhliminer partielle- ment ou complBtement du systeme de riaction, tout en obtenant des rendements blevhs des produits obtenus. On prhsente des considhrations thhoriques (thermodynamiques et mhcanistiques) pour dhmontrer quil devrait dtre possible dutiliser le soufre seul ou avec le chlore (additionnh ou non de brome) pour remplacer Iiode seul ou mhlangh avec des halogenes dans le cas de dhshydroghnation par oxyda- tion de divers hydrocarbures. I1 ressort des dites considhra- tions quil devrait &re possible avec le nouveau systime dobtenir des rcndements hlevhs, si Ion emploie des cata- lyseurs approprihs. uscd alone but when used together, with o r  without iodine,high yields were achieved (b).
Since bromine and chlorine are less expensive than iodine and can be used to wholly or partially replace the latter, the basis for an economically attractive,mixed halogen promoted, dehydrogenation process t)cconics apparent. An even more attractive process can be visualized if sulphur is also used in admixture with the above halogens,particularly bromine and chlorine. This could allow the replace- nient of much o f the expensive halogens with inexpensive sulphur.
This paper examines the theory and chemistry behind the halogcn promoted dehydrogenation process and indicates that it should be possible to replace iodine and bromine wholly or partially with sulphur. ,4 companion paper dcscrihcs thc experiments carried out to prove the above concept.
Discussion Figure 1 shows the thermodynamically calculated equili- brium constants for the dehydrogenation of a typical hydro- carbon, biitene-I for example. Thc bottom curve in the figurc shows that the cqilibririin for the thermal dchydrogenatioii reaction lies greatly to the left of Equation ( I )  for all the tem- peratures indicated. T h e  reaction is facilitated by low partial pressures of reactants and is endothermic: C4Hs
C4H6 + 29 Kcal.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) llhen oxygen is used as the oxidant however, the reaction is favourcd at all ternperaturcs (top curve in Figure 1) and is highly cxothermic. Reaction control is difficult in practice:
C  H I U
+ 1/2 0,
C4H6 + H,O -
26 Kcal. . . . . . (2) When halogens arc used as the osidcnts it can be seen that thc equilibrium for the overall butene dehydrogenation reaction lies far to the right for chlorine and bromine (in that order) at all the temperatures shown.
For iodine, however, the equilibrium constants for the overall reaction are only slightly higher than 212 The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering, Vol. 48, April, 1970
I
I
I
I
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1 2 0 0
TEMPERLYTURE, '
F
Figure 1-Thermodynamic equilibrium for butene-1 dehydrogenation. the thermal reaction and it is onljc at teniperaturcs greater than YOOOF that the equilibrium lies to the right: CaHs + zY2 +
CIH, + 2HX. . . , , , , . , . .
. . (3) where X e
is either Cis, Br2 or IS It is also known ( 6 )  that reaction 3 is highly cxothermic for chlorine, inildly so for bromine and cndotherniic for iodine. .Although the thermodynamic equilibria shown above arc for the usc of halogens in stoichiometric proportions, in practice the halogcn promoted reactions are carried out in the presence of oxygen and with far less than stoichionietric proportions of halogens. Under these conditions iodine proves to be the best promoter of all the halogens.
Tablc 1 shows the reactions which are thought to occur i n halogen promoted oxidative dehydrogenation.
It can be seen at the top of the table that the halogen X 2 reacts with a hydro- carbon to abstract hydrogen to form hydrogen halide (reaction 4). The latter is then oxidized to elemental halogen and water in reaction 5. The overall reaction, reaction 6, is thus between the hydrocarbon feed and oxygen to produce the olefinic product and water. These reactions take place at temperatures between 950-1 2S0F, at about atmospheric pressure, in the presence of suitable catalysts.
The bottom of Table 1 shows a breakdown o f reaction 4 and indicates in more detail the probable path of halogen promoted dehydrogenation reaction.
Halogen atoms obtained by the dissociation of molecular halogen X 2  (reaction 7) abstract a
TABLE
1 'rHK HYDROCARBON-HALOGEN-OXYGEN
REACTIONS
- ___- - _
C,H?.+? + X,
2
H X  + 1/2 0
2
--t C"H2" + 2
H X . .
. . . . . . .(4)
-+ X,
+ H z 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . (5) Overall: The Halogen Reactions:(') CnH2"+2 + 1/2 0,
-+ C,H?, +
H 2 0 . .  . . . . . . . . ( 6 )
x p --t 2 x. . , . , , , . . . . . . . . . . . . , , .(7) C,Lli.+r + .X -+ C,H?.+i + H X . . . . . . . . . . . . (8) . .
(9) ,.(lo) CsHzn+i + A'? --t C,Ht.+IX +
X .
. . . . . . . .
C.Hz.+l.Y
--+ C.H,,, + H X .
, . . . . . . . . - _ _ _ _ ___ - _ _ _ _ _ __. ___-.-___ (1) X t  ciin be chlorine, bromine or iodine 2 HX + 1/2 02 i =
Xp + H20 - (5) FOR HX = HCI, HBr OR HI 20 - 15- 3
E
8 lo-
Y
a 5- s 0- - 5 1
I
I
I
I
I
1 0 200 4 0 0
600 800 1000 1200
TEMPERATURE, OF
Figure 2-Thermodynamics of hydrogen halide regenera- tion reactions using oxygen. hydrogen atom from the hydrocarbon feed to produce a hydro- carbon radical and hydrogen halide, H X ,  (reaction 8). The alkyl (or alkenyl as the case may be) radical then rcacts with fresh X 2 to produce an alkyl (or alkenyl) halide (reaction Y),which then undergoes dehydrohalogenation to the olefin and H X via reaction 10. The hydrogen halide is then oxidizcd by oxygen to regenerate the halogen via reaction 5 at the top of the table.
Reactions 7 to 10 suggest a typical radical chain mechanism,reaction 7 being the chain initiating step and reactions 8 and 9 being thc chain propagating steps.
Indeed the above chain mechanism is well established for the reactions of chlorine and bromine with hydrocarbons (6). However iodine is known not to react with hydrocarbons by a radical chain mechanism. In fact,reactions 8 and 9 with regard to iodine are both kinetically slower and thermodynamically less favored than those for chlorine and bromine @).
Thus although it may appear that thermodynamically chlorine should be the mos, efficient and iodine the least cfficienr promoter for oxidative dehydrogenation o f hydrocarbons, in practice, the reverse is found to be true. This is because the halogen promoters are used in much less than stoichiometric quantities (0.0014.2 mole) and must therefore take part in the desired reaction over and over again to produce high yields of olefins. Obviously this is possible only if the hydrogen halide produced in reactions 8 and 10 is instantly oxidized back to free halogen. Thus the most important kinetic and thermodynamic criterion in deciding the superiority of a given halogen in the oxydehydrogenation reaction must depend upon the ease with which its hydrogen halide is oxidized back to the halogen.
Figure 2 shows that thermodynamically HI can be oxidized to iodine more easily than HRr to Br2 to Clz. In fact it can be seen that the oxidation of HCI becomes equilibrium limited at temperatures in excess of i0Oo"F indicating that larger quantities of HCI must be present in the reaction mixture (to produce a sufficiently high concentration of Clz for dehydrogenation) than either HBr or HI.
Moreover it is known that the alkyl (or alkenyl) iodides dehydrohalogenate at much faster rate than the corresponding chlorocompounds (reaction 1 0 in Table 1) @). Thus it can be concluded that iodine is the most effective oxydehydrogenation promoter when present in sub-stoichiometric proportions,principally because it is almost always available in its most active (atomic) form in the reaction mixture due to the ease with which HI is oxidized. On the other hand chlorine is a poorer promoter due to the unfavourable thermodynamics for the HCI oxidation reaction.
The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering, Vol. 48, April, 1970 21 3
C4H8 + 112 X2 (0) *
C
& +
H2X
25 h FOR X =  1/2 02,
S,
Se OR 1 2
Mole Halogen/ mole butene
I
- 1 0 -'v Bu tadiene Butene Conversion o/o Selectivity Yield mole "/o mole "/o 01 ' 0 200 400 600 800 1 0 0 0
1200
TEMPERATURE, 'F
Figure 3-Thermodynamic equilibrium constants for butene-1 dehydrogenation using 0,,
S
,, Se and I,. - -
0.002
0.002
So far only individual halogens have been considered as dehydrogenation promoters. However it has been reported in the parent literature that halogens mixtures are far more effective than single halogens for oxydehydrogenation when present in equivalent quantities ( 6 ) .  Table 2 shows this effect. When a butene-oxygen-steam feed mixture was passed over a catalyst,consisting of 5% CeOz and 1% CaO on Vycor chips, at I 1 S2"F,the top line of the table shows that in the absence of a halogen promoter a 6% butadiene yield was obtained at 30% butenc conversion and 20% butadiene selectivity.
When 0.02 mole chlorine was added to the feed mixture, 32% butadiene yield was obtained at 72% butadiene selectivity. If 0.002 mole iodine was uscd in place of chlorine, 29% butadienc yield was obtained at 60?& slectivity. However when both chlorine and iodine were present together in the feed in the same molar ratios as pre- viously, a 64% butadicne yield, at 81% botene convcrsion and 79y0 butadiene selectivity, was achieved. This yield is twice as high as those obtained when using the individual halogen promoters separately.
An attempt has been made in Table 3 to explain the above (soincrimes called "synergistic") effect by indicating the two additional reactions which probably occur when a mixed halogen system (Clz + I2 for example) is used in the oxydehydrogena- tion reaction. Thus in a mixed halogen system HI and HCI are 30 2 0 6 44 72 32 48 60 29 81 79 64
TABLE
2 Erm cr
OF MIXED
HALOGENS
ON OXIDATIVE
DEHYDROGENATIONS
Data from Belg. Pat. 617891(6) Catalyst: SyL CeOz + 1% CaO on Vycor chips; Temp. = 1152F; Butene Space Velocity == 1 LV/V/Hr; Butene/Ot/HzO Mole Ratio = 1/1.25/7.5
OF BUTENE-2
I
I
c 1
-
0.02
0.02
- -
I
I
- -
I
- -
1 0
Figure &Change in molecular structure of sulphur at dif- ferent temperatures.
Data from: Ganieson, B. W. and Elkins, R. M., Chem. Eng.
Prog. 49:203 (1953).
H2S t B r 2 e  2 HBr t 112
I
0 1
I
1 0 2 0 0 400 600 800 1 0 0 0
1200
TEMPEMTIRE ,
O F
Figure 5-Thermodynamics of oxidation of H,S and HI. oxidized to iodine and chlorine by oxygen in the feed as in a single halogen system. As can be seen in Equation ( I  1) at the top of Table 3, the chlorine produced can now react with HI in the reaction mixture to produce iodine by the well known halogen "replacement" reaction. This further speeds up the HI oxidation reaction and ensures that iodine is continually being made av;iil- able for reaction with the hydrocarbon feed. In addition, thc chlorine being a niore cfficient hydrogen abstractor also makes hydrocarbon radicals niore readily available for reaction with iodine than if the latter were present alone. Thesc hydrocarbon radicals can react with iodine atoms (Fquation ( I  3)) as well as chlorine atoms (Equation (12)) to produce the desired oletitlie product.
TABLE
3
ADDITIONAL
REACTIONS
WHEN HALOGEN
MIXTLJKES
ARE PHRSICNT
0 IZ
regeneration reaction speeded up i n  presence of CI:! . ________
. . - . 2 H I  + CI, -+ 2 HCI + I ? . .  . . . . . . . . . . .(11) 0 CnHzn+l radicals produced from faster CI reaction can also react with I CI/-+CnH2a+iCI -+ CnH?, + tic1 . (12) Halogen mixtures increase product yields probably because of above two reactions 21 4 The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering, Vol. 48, April, 1970 When all three halogens (
C
s ,
Br and I) are used in admixture,similar reaction scyuences can be written taking into. account the various hydrogen abstraction and hydrogen halide oxidation reactions.
An attempt has been made in the above discussion to explain the effectiveness of halogens in general and iodine in particular as oxidative dehydrogenation promoters (when used singly or in conjunction with each other) without reference to catalysts.
This is obviously an over simplification of an extremely complex system and in practice it is found that the above reactions do not proceed well in the gas phase or even in the presence of inert surfaces such as porcelain beads, silica or tabular aluminas.
However, when the above materials are suitably impregnated with transition metal oxides and rare earth oxides, good catalysts are achieved ( 4 * 6 ) , As indicated earlier even thouah iodine is the best promoter for oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, its high cost (approx. $l.OO/lb) and the difficulty in recovering it completely for recycle makes its use in a commercial process risky from an economic point of view. 4 n  inexpensive total or partial sub- stitute for iodine {or bromine) could thus have a marked effect on future processing schemes.Oxygen, sulphur and selenium belong to Group VIA of the periodic table and exhibit similarities in their chemical pro- perties. In general since the reactivity of elements in a given group decreases with increasing atomic weight, sulphur and selenium would be expected to act as milder oxidants than oxygen in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.* Indeed,thermodynamically calculated equilibrium constants for the dehydrogenation of butene with sulphur and selenium, show in Figure 3, are significantly lower than those for oxygen and very similar to those of iodine. Furthermore from a cost point of view sulphur at approximately 2 centsjlb is very much cheaper than iodine. Thus sulphur should be a logical choice as the pro- moter which could be used to wholly or partially replace iodine in the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction.Although thermodynaniically the use of molecular sulphur for dehydrogenation seems quite feasible, in practice the use of sulphur vapor poses problems due to the molecular structure of sulphur in the range of temperatures at which oxidative dehydro- genation reactions are carried out i.e. 900-1 250F(7). Exami- nation of Figure 4 shows that sulphur vapor has to be heated to high temperatures (e.g. 1200-140O0F) in order to obtain the reactive, diradical species (*), S,, in the high enough concentra- tions necessary for efficient dehydrogenation (monoatomic sulphur is known to exist only at even higher temperatures,i.e. 3000"1.) ( 9 ) .
At such high temperatures most hydrocarbons will undergo thermal cracking reactions rather than dehydro- generation to olefins. For this reason the various attempts made in the past to use sulphur vapor for the dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons did not meet with success (lo,11).
Oxidation of hydrogen sulphide to recover sulphur by the Clause Reaction is well known (Iz), Kinetics of H2S oxidation by explosion techniques and other methods has been studied ex- tensively (I3) and it has been shown that species such as Sz,
SH,
S+*, are formed as transient intermediates during the eventual formation of elemental sulphur in s 8 rings. Thus it would seem logical to take advantage of the HZS oxidation reaction to supply,insitu, the reactive sulphur species needed to replace the halo- gens in the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction. The fact that such a replacement scheme is possible is indicated by Figure 5 which compares the therniodynamics of the H?S and HI re- generation reactions using oxygen, chlorine and bromine. It is apparent that the equilibrium constants for the HPS and HI regeneration reactions are similar for all the temperatures shown thus indicating the possibility of replacing the HI in an HC. and/or HBr/HI promoter mixture with HPS while still allowing high product yields to be achieved. Here it should be noted that the previous data indicating the high promoter efficiency of mixed halogens in an oxidative dehydrogenation reaction should in theory be directly applicable to a mixed halogen/sulphur promoted system. This is so provided suitable catalysts can be defined to ensure a rapid reaction between S:! and the hydrocarbon feed while simultaneously minimizing the polymerization o f the Sz species to the inactive s 8 form. The catalysts would also have to be efficient enough to promote the halogen promoted reactions described earlier.
Conclusions The total or partial replacement of HI or HRr with H,S in a halogen promoted system could be of important economic significance especiallv if promoter losses are high due, for example, to the formation of small quantities of undesirable by-products. Assuming iodine (M.W. = 253.8) is valued at $l.OO/lb, bromine (M.W. = 159.8) at 30 centsjlb, chlorine (M.W. = 70.9) at 3 cents/lb and sulphur (A.W. = 32.1) at 2 cents/lb, then it can be shown that I mole of sulphur costs
64.2 cents and is equivalent in cost to 0.30 mole CI? or 0.013
mole Brz or 0.0025 mole I?. Thus the rcplxeinent of even very small quantities of iodine and bromine by much larger quantities of sulphur in any halogen promoted system could help redrice promoter costs considerably. eremes Industrial Chemicals, Third Edition, Faith, W. L., Keyas, D. B. and Clark, R. L., John Wiley and Sons Inc. (1965).
U.S. Patent 2,399,678 Houdry and Shabaker.
U S .  Patent 2,890,252 Shell Development Company.
Belgian Patent 609,096 Shell International Research Maatschappij.
Belgian Patents 617,890 to 617,893 Petro-Tex Chemical Corp.
Unit Processes in Organic Synthesis, Fifth edition, Groggins, P. M., McGraw Hill Book Co. Inc. (1968) pp. 205-226.
Gamson. B. W. and Elkins, R. M., Chem. Eng. Prog. 49: 203 (1953).
Mechanism of SulDhur Reactions. W. A. Prvor. McGraw Hill Book . .
Co. lnc. (1962) pp: 11.
Schaeffer, H. F. and Palmer, G. D., J. Chem. Ed. 17, 473 (1940).
Morningstar, R. E., Ph.D. Thesis: Univ. Microfilm Publication number 25258. Desertation Abstract 18: 1358 (1958).Rasmussen, H. E., et al, Ind. Eng. Chem. 38:'376 '(1946).Valdes, A. R., Hydrocarbon Processmg and Petroleum Refiner 43 No.
3: 107 (1964).
Marsden, D .  G. H., Can. J. Chem. 41: 2607 (1963). *Selenium is known to be an excellent dehydrogenating agent i n organic synthesis.
Manuscript received September 20; accepted December 1, 1969. * * * The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering, Vol. 48, April, 1970 21 5


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the structural characteristics, surface properties (particularly acidity and basicity), and Lewis acid sites of different Ga2O3 polymorphs (α-, β-, γ-, and δ-) influence their catalytic performance in CO2-ODHP reactions, and what mechanisms are proposed to explain the observed activity trends and selectivity during both initial and steady-state stages of the reaction?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 