I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Multiple Methane Activation Pathways on Ga-modified ZSM-5 Zeolites Revealed by Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy Graphical Abstract Methane activation: Different types of Ga-CH3 species were observed in methane activation on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolite, evidencing different pathways for heterolytic cleavage of CH bond of methane. Two-dimensional solid-state NMR experiments provided detailed information on the location and local environment of the Ga-CH3 species.
Abstract Methane activation on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites (Ga/ZSM-5) was studied by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Two types of Ga species, namely highly dispersed oxides and cationic Ga species, were determined by 71Ga QCPMG NMR. The activation of methane on Ga/ZSM-5 was explored by using 13C and 1H MAS NMR. Four types of Ga-CH3 species along with Ga-OH groups were observed on Ga/ZSM-5, evidencing different pathways for heterolytic cleavage of CH bond of methane. Two-dimensional (2D) 1H-1H correlation NMR experiments provide detailed information on the location and local environment of the Ga-CH3 species by correlating the protons in Ga-CH3 with those in Ga-OH and other hydroxyls on zeolite. The structures of different Ga-CH3 species were further determined by 2D 1H-13C heteronuclear correlation NMR experiments, which were supported by theoretical calculations. The activation routes of CH bond in methane were proposed on Ga/ZSM-5 zeolite.
Introduction Selective conversion of light alkanes into value-added chemicals and fuels on heterogeneous catalysts is of great importance in both academia and industry.1 Despite much effort has been devoted to the conversion of light alkanes into alkenes, alcohols and aromatics, tremendous challenge remains due to the considerably strong CH bond strength as well as the higher reactivity of products which often result in lower conversion and product selectivity, respectively.2 Metal (e.g., Cu, Mo, Ga, Zn) modified zeolites are receiving increasing attention in recent years and are considered to be the most promising catalysts for the direct conversion of light alkanes.3 Of the particular interest is their bifunctional properties (acidity and redox), which provide great benefit for activation of light alkanes at mild conditions.
Ga- or Zn-modified zeolites are currently the most effective catalysts for aromatization of light alkanes.3a, 4 However, the reaction mechanism particularly the initial CH bond activation is still unclear. Two types of reaction routes have been proposed on Ga/ZSM-5. It was argued that alkane is activated on Brnsted acid site (BAS) via carbonium ion, while Lewis acid site (Ga species) facilitates the recombination desorption of H2.5 The other one claimed that the activation of CH occurs via a bifunctional pathway, which is driven by the synergic effect between BAS and Ga species. The CH bond of alkane is polarized by Ga species and then is cleaved with the assistant of BAS. The types and location of metal species in zeolites significantly influence the CH bond activation, leading to different reaction pathways. Considerable effort in both experiments and theoretical calculations has been devoted towards clarifying the CH bond activation pathways based on the identification of active metal species and surface species resulted from the CH bond cleavage.6 Both cationic metal species such as GaO+and metal oxides on zeolite appear to exist as active sites for alkane activation. Two models of CH cleavage over Ga species were proposed, so-called alkyl and carbenium pathways. It was found that alkyl pathway occurs on Ga2O3 giving rise to Ga-CH3 species in Ga-modified ZSM-5, whereas minor Ga-O-CH3 species was also observed which suggests the alternative carbenium mechanism.7 On the other hand, the CH bond cleavage could occur either heterolytically or homolytically. Our previous work demonstrated on Zn-modified zeolite that heterolytic dissociation of CH bond of methane could occur on Zn2+ ions with the formation of Zn-methyl species, while homolytic cleavage of CH bond of methane on ZnOZn clusters could lead to the preferential formation of surface methoxy species.3b The survey of literature shows that various metal species could be formed on zeolites responsible for CH activation of alkanes. The similar structures of surface species attached to different metal species make it highly challenging to have an in-depth understanding of the dissociative adsorption of alkanes. In this work, we provide direct evidence for multiple methane activation routes on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites (denoted as Ga/ZSM-5) by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Two types of Ga species are identified on Ga/ZSM-5. 2D 1H-1H and 1H-13C NMR correlation experiments allow us to propose multiple pathways for the heterolytic cleavage of CH bond of methane on the active sites involving Ga species and BAS.
Results and Discussion Physicochemical properties and Ga species The structures of H-ZSM-5 and Ga/ZSM-5 zeolites were examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD), 27Al and 29Si MAS NMR spectroscopy. The XRD patterns of the samples show that the structural integrity of MFI framework remains intact for all the Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites (Figure1). Additionally, no evident Ga2O3 crystallite patterns can be observed, indicating that the possible Ga2O3 particles are present in small sizes and highly dispersed on zeolite. 27Al MAS NMR spectra of parent H-ZSM-5 and Ga-modified samples (FigureS1) shows the presence of dominant tetrahedral framework Al species at 55ppm and a small fraction of octahedral extra-framework Al species reflected by the weak signal at 0ppm. This confirms that the introduction of Ga species did not cause any detectable change of local structure on all the Ga-modified samples. Moreover, the 29Si MAS NMR spectra (FigureS2) show that the 29Si signals from different T-sites on the Ga modified samples do not have obvious change as compared to those on the parent ZSM-5 sample, indicating that most of the introduced Ga are extra-framework species located in zeolite. The acidity of the samples were examined by FT-IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine (FigureS3). In comparison to the parent H-ZSM-5, the amount of BAS on Ga/ZSM-5-ox and Ga/ZSM-5-redox is notably reduced with concomitant generation of Lewis acid sites. The formed Ga species should be responsible for the increased Lewis acid sites.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint XRD patterns of H-ZSM-5 and Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites. 71Ga QCPMG MAS NMR experiments were performed to probe the structure of Ga species on Ga-modified samples. As shown in Figure2a, a typical second-order quadrupolar line shape with an isotropic chemical shift of 58ppm is observed in the 71Ga WURST-QCPMG spectrum of physical mixture of oxides and zeolite (Ga2O3/ZSM-5), due to 6-coordinated Ga atoms from Ga2O3 particles, which is similar to that of bulk Ga2O3 (FigureS4). Interestingly, the 71Ga NMR spectra of Ga/ZSM-5-ox and Ga/ZSM-5-redox exhibit two broad 71Ga signals. The spectra fitted with a Gaussian isotropic model distribution (the more-general Czjzek distribution) produce two signals with isotropic chemical shifts at 190 and 58ppm. The formation of highly dispersed gallium oxide species on these two samples is responsible for the lacking of quadrupolar line shape of signal at 58ppm. The appearance of the low-filed signal (190ppm) indicates the formation of Ga species with low coordination which can be ascribed to cationic Ga species located on the cation exchange sites of ZSM-5 zeolite.8 The Ga species in the form of Ga3+, e.g., GaO+ or hydrated Ga(OH)2+, can be produced by substituting the Brnsted acid proton (Si-OH-Al) and coordinate with the conjugate-base site (Si-O-Al).9 According to the quantitative analysis of Ga species obtained by the simulation of the 71Ga QCPMG spectra (Table1), the relative content of cationic Ga species (190ppm) on Ga/ZSM-5-redox is much higher compared to those on Ga/ZSM-5-ox, being 48.7% vs. 35.1%. This can be explained by the fact that Ga2O3 particles tend to disperse into highly mobile gallium oxide during high-temperature reduction treatment, and react with BAS to generate cationic Ga species.9b, 10 Different Ga species formed in the channel of zeolite would impact catalyst activity for CH activation of light alkanes.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 71Ga QCPMG MAS NMR spectra of (a) Ga2O3/ZSM-5, (b) Ga/ZSM-5-ox and (c) Ga/ZSM-5-redox.
Table 1. NMR parameters extracted from 71Ga QCPMG NMR spectra and the relative content of different Ga species on Ga2O3/ZSM-5, Ga/ZSM-5-ox and Ga/ZSM-5-redox.
Sample δiso [ppm] CQ [MHz] Relative content [%] Ga2O3/ZSM-5 58
8.3
Ga/ZSM-5-ox 58
8.3
64.9
190
7.6
35.1
Ga/ZSM-5-redox 58
8.3
51.3
190
7.6
48.7
Methane activation Methane activation on Ga modified samples was explored by using 13C NMR experiments. Figure3 shows the 13C CP/MAS spectra obtained from 13CH4 reacted on Ga-modified ZSM-5 at 573K for 1h. No 13C signal can be clearly observed on Ga2O3/ZSM-5, while a broad and unresolved NMR signal is produced on Ga/ZSM-5-ox. In contrast, much stronger signals at 1.816.2ppm occurs on Ga/ZSM-5-redox (Figure3c). Since the gaseous and physically adsorbed methane has been removed after the reaction, these 13C signals should be produced by the activation of CH bond of methane. According to the chemical shifts, they can be ascribed to Ga-CH3 species7 analogous to the metal-methyl groups in organometallic compounds.11 The much higher activity of Ga/ZSM-5-redox reflected by the formation of high concentration of Ga-CH3 species indicates that the Ga ions such as GaO+ promotes methane activation. The strong interaction of methane with active Ga species leads to heterolytic dissociation of the polarized CδHδ+ bond and the formation of Ga-CH3 species via alkyl pathway.7b In addition, no methoxy species (ca. 57ppm) is observable as shown in the chemical shift rang of 5060ppm, indicating the absence of carbenium mechanism for methane activation at the condition used. The result is consistent with the theoretical calculations that the alkyl pathway was energetically more favorable for initial activation of light alkane on Ga-modified zeolites.12 Interestingly, spectral deconvolution of Ga/ZSM-5-redox reveals four types of Ga-CH3 species, which may arise from heterogeneity of the adsorption sites. Previous reports indicated that Ga-alkyl species are formed as stable intermediate and play a vital role in the process of light alkane dehydrogenation and aromatization.6c, 13 The observation of different Ga-CH3 species evidences the complexed chemistry of methane activation on Ga-modified zeolites.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 13C CP/MAS spectra of (a) Ga2O3/ZSM-5, (b) Ga/ZSM-5-ox and (c) Ga/ZSM-5-redox reacted with 13CH4 at 573K for 1h.
To gain insight into the dissociative adsorption of methane on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites, 1H MAS NMR experiments were performed. H-ZSM-5 and Ga/ZSM-5-redox were compared with Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4. As shown in Figure4, three main signals are observed at 4.0, 2.6 and 1.8ppm in the 1H MAS NMR spectrum of H-ZSM-5, corresponding to BAS, extra-framework AlOH and non-acidic SiOH, respectively. Compared with parent H-ZSM-5 (Figure4a), the peak intensity of BAS on Ga/ZSM-5-redox significantly declines (Figure4b), indicating that BAS was substituted by the formed cationic Ga species during the preparation process, in consistence well with our FT-IR and 71Ga NMR results. The concentration of BAS on the parent H-ZSM-5 and Ga/ZSM-5-redox zeolite was measured by 1H MAS NMR spectra (Figure4), which is determined to be 1058 and 582 μmol/g, respectively. The formation of Ga-OH groups is reflected by the two weak signals at 0.9 and 1.4ppm on Ga/ZSM-5-redox (Figure4b), probably due to different types of Ga species.8, 14 It is interesting to note that the signal intensity of Ga-OH (0.9ppm) is remarkably increased on Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4, accompanied with a new signal at 0.1ppm (Figure4c). According to the 1H chemical shift for metal methyl groups on zeolites,11b, 15 the Ga-CH3 species is responsible for the 0.1ppm signal.11b The Ga-OH and Ga-CH3 groups could be produced on the same Ga species or two proximate Ga species, suggesting the presence of different pathways of CH bond activation. Besides, BAS (4.0ppm) is slightly recovered on Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4 compared to Ga/ZSM-5-redox. The regeneration of acidic protons should be resulted from the dissociative adsorption of methane on Ga species siting on conjugated base site of BAS (Si-O-Al), which is often observed in methane activation on metal-modified zeolites.16 Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 1H MAS NMR spectra of (a) H-ZSM-5, (b) Ga/ZSM-5-redox and (c) Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4.
C-H bond activation pathways Since the activation of CH bond leads to the formation of different hydroxyl groups, correlating these proton-containing groups will provide more information on the reaction of methane. 2D 1H DQ-SQ MAS NMR is powerful technique for probing proton-proton proximity,17 being usually less than 5Å. Figure5 shows 2D 1H DQ-SQ MAS NMR spectra of H-ZSM-5, Ga/ZSM-5-redox and Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4. For the parent H-ZSM-5, only two autocorrelation peaks at (1.8, 3.6) and (4.0, 8.0) ppm are clearly observed (Figure5a), corresponding to the spatial proximity between non-acidic silanols and BAS pairs respectively. Note that the characteristic correlation peak at (4.0, 8.0) ppm disappears for Ga/ZSM-5-redox, implying that the introduction of Ga replaces part of BAS and renders them no longer in close proximity. This provides evidence on the location of Ga species on BAS in zeolite. In fact, the formation of proximate BAS and Ga species has been observed on Ga-modified ZSM-5.8 Autocorrelation peak at (2.6, 5.2) ppm from Al-OH appears on Ga/ZSM-5-redox, which could be caused by the dealumination of zeolite during the induction of Ga. This is also supported by the observation of a slight increase in octahedral extra-framework Al species and corresponding Al-OH groups on Ga/ZSM-5-redox (FigureS1 and Figure4). In addition, no correlation peak corresponding to Ga-OH is visible on the 1H DQ-SQ MAS NMR spectrum of Ga/ZSM-5-redox, indicating that Ga-OH is not in close proximity to each other. Upon reaction with methane, two additional autocorrelation peaks at (0.9, 1.8) and (0.1, 0.2) ppm are clearly observed on Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4 (Figure5c). The appearance of the former peak suggests that more Ga-OH groups are generated due to the CH bond cleavage of methane, which leads to the observed spatial proximity. While the autocorrelation peak at (0.1, 0.2) ppm comes from proximate protons in the formed Ga-CH3 group.
Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 2D 1H-1H DQ-SQ MAS NMR spectra of (a) H-ZSM-5, (b) Ga/ZSM-5-redox and (c) Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4.
To get further information on the location and dynamics of the observed protons in methane reaction, 2D EXSY experiments were performed on the reacted sample Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4. Figure6 shows the 2D 1H EXSY MAS NMR spectra with different mixing time (10 and 80ms), which display the exchange of protons among different groups through the appearance of cross-peaks linking the isotropic peaks on the diagonal. Cross peaks characterizing the exchange between Ga-OH (0.9ppm and 1.4ppm) and Ga-CH3 (0.1ppm) are observed at short mixing time (10ms) (Figure6a). The efficient spin diffusion enables the observation of the short-range spatial proximity between the two types of hydroxyl groups. This is evident from the extracted slices for the Ga-OH and Ga-CH3 resonances. They are likely either sharing the same Ga atom or bound to two adjacent Ga atoms such as the structure models I and II. The mobility of these two groups may prevent the observation of their proximity in the 2D 1H DQ-SQ MAS NMR spectra (Figure5c), due to the reduced internuclear dipolar interactions. Moreover, the favorable polarization-transfer due to the spin diffusion contributes to the observation of the exchange between BAS (4.0ppm) and AlOH (2.6ppm) (model III). At a long mixing time (80ms) (Figure6b and the extracted slices), in addition to the exchange between Ga-OH and Ga-CH3, the exchange between these species with BAS (4.0ppm) becomes pronounced compared to that at short mixing time (10ms). This is a clear indication that BAS is located at medium range of spatial proximity to the Ga-OH and Ga-CH3 groups. Either the remained or regenerated BAS in the CH bond activation would be involved in this observed internuclear proximity. Additionally, the slice extracted for BAS (4.0ppm) shows off-diagonal peaks between BAS signal and those in the chemical shift range of 58ppm (Figure6b). The broad signal appearing as a downfield shoulder peak of BAS can be assigned to trace water adsorbed on zeolite,18 which could be produced by dehydration between the Ga-OH group and the adjacent BAS during the reaction of methane.
Figure 6 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 2D 1H EXSY MAS NMR spectra of Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4 recorded with a mixing time of (a) 10ms and (b) 80ms Different types of Ga-CH3 species are formed in methane activation. To correlate these species with the observed protons, 2D 1H-13C HETCOR NMR experiments were performed on Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4, which allow us to differentiate these Ga-CH3 groups. Figure7a shows the 1H-13C HETCOR spectrum recorded with a short contact time (τc=0.1ms). Four 1H-13C correlation peaks at (1.8, 0.1), (11.0, 0.1), (14.0, 0.1) and (16.2, 0.1) ppm are observable, corresponding to four types of Ga-CH3 in Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4, in consistence with the result obtained by deconvoluted 1D 13C NMR spectrum (displayed on the top of 2D HETCOR NMR spectrum). Note that the Ga-OH groups at 1H chemical shift of 0.9 and 1.4ppm show correlations with different Ga-CH3, reflected by the peaks at (1.8, 0.9) and (16.2, 1.4) ppm respectively, in good agreement with the results from 2D 1H EXSY-NMR experiment (Figure6a). While the correlations with Ga-OH can not be clearly observed for the other two Ga-CH3 groups at 13C chemical shift of 14.0 and 11.0ppm (Figure7a).
Figure 7 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint 2D 1H-13C HETCOR NMR spectra of Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4 recorded with (a) a contact time of 0.1ms and (b) spin diffusion sequence with 100ms mixing time.
Further correlations between 13C atom and 1H atom on Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4 were analyzed by using the 2D HETCOR NMR combined with spin diffusion pulse sequence (Figure7b), which enables the detection of the 1H-containing groups at longer-range distance to 13C atom. The obtained spectrum (Figure7b) reveals more correlation peaks between Ga-CH3 and 1H-containing groups. Besides those observed in Figure7a, the proton spin diffusion permits the observation of weak correlations between the Al-OH (2.6ppm) and Ga-CH3. It is interesting to note that the correlation peaks at (11.0, 4.0) and (14.0, 4.0) ppm are observable as well, indicating the presence of BAS at medium-range distance to the two Ga-CH3 species (11.0 and 14.0ppm), which supports the conclusion obtained from the 2D 1H EXSY MAS NMR experiment.
Taking all the results together, plausible pathways were proposed for the activation of methane CH bond over Ga/ZSM-5-redox zeolite (Scheme1). Based on the 71Ga NMR experiment, the Ga species in the zeolite channels mainly exist in two forms, GaO+ and highly dispersed GaOx species. The observation of different Ga-CH3 suggests four pathways (a-d) dependent on the local environments of the active Ga species. Methane activation would occur over isolated GaO+ species via heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond, whereby the negative alkyl fragment binds to Ga3+ atom and proton transfers to the O atom bound to Ga, leading to [HOGaCH3]+ (pathway a). This results in the close proximity between Ga-CH3 (13C signal at 16.2ppm) and Ga-OH (1H signal at 1.4ppm) as demonstrated by EXSY and HETCOR NMR experiments. The formation of Ga species leads to the reduction of Brnsted acid protons on zeolite (Figure4). However, a fraction of the remained acidic protons could exist in close proximity to the cationic GaO+ species.8 When CH bond of methane is cleaved on the GaO+ species, the proximate BAS may cause dehydration between Ga-OH group and the acidic proton at high temperature (573K), producing [GaCH3]2+ cations (pathway b). The above EXSY NMR spectrum (Figure6b) evidences the generation of a trace amount of water at medium-range distance to BAS. In a similar way, it was reported that [Ga(OH)H]+ cations on zeolite undergo condensation with the proximate Brnsted acid protons to form [GaH]2+ cations and one equivalent of H2O.14 The divalent [GaH]2+ cations show high activity for CH activation of light alkane.6c, 19 This lead us to deduce that the [GaCH3]2+ may further react with CH4 to form [Ga(CH3)2]+ (13C signal at ca. 11.0ppm) with the recovery of the proximate BAS. The proximity between [Ga(CH3)2]+ and BAS is reflected by the correlation peak at (11.0, 4.0) in the 1H-13C HETCOR spectrum (Figure7b).
Scheme 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Proposed reaction routes for the activation of CH bond of methane over Ga-modified ZSM-5.
The highly dispersed GaOx species as observed by 71Ga NMR are also considered for methane activation (pathway c and d). At least two adjacent BAS in zeolite channel are required to anchor the GaOx species with higher oxygen coordination numbers.20 The heterolytic dissociation of methane could occur over -Ga-O-Ga- bond with the formation of CH3 and OH groups, which are bound to two adjacent Ga atoms, respectively (pathway c). The EXSY and HETCOR NMR experiments (Figure6 and Figure7) provide direct evidence for the spatial proximity between the formed Ga-CH3 (13C signal at 1.8ppm) and Ga-OH (1H signal at 0.9ppm). On the other hand, CH bond of methane would undergo Cδ-Hδ+ cleavage on the strongly polarized Ga-O bond that is attached to zeolite with simultaneous proton abstraction by O atom bound to zeolite, leading to the formation of Ga-CH3 and the recovery of BAS (pathway d). This is consistent well with the observation of the correlation of the two species in the 1H-13C HETCOR spectrum reflected by the (14.0, 4.0) ppm signal (Figure7b). The occurrence of such reaction pathway does not produce Ga-OH species as in pathway c, which is supported by the lack of correlation peak between Ga-CH3 (14.0ppm) and Ga-OH (Figure7b). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations of 13C chemical shifts of the Ga-CH3 species in the zeolites were performed to assist in analyzing the experimental results. The optimized structures of the four Ga-CH3 species as depicted in Scheme1 were shown in FigureS5. The theoretically calculated 13C chemical shifts for the proposed Ga-CH3 groups (TableS1) are in consistence with the experimental values, providing strong support to the proposed Ga-CH3 species and involved methane activation mechanisms.
Conclusions Methane activation on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites has been investigated by using 1D and 2D solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Highly dispersed GaOx and GaO+ species are formed on the samples prepared by impregnation methods. The activation of CH bond of methane is observed on Ga-modified ZSM-5 zeolites at 573K as reflected by the formation of surface Ga-CH3 groups. The simultaneous generation of Ga-OH groups demonstrates the heterolytic cleavage of CH bond of methane. The observation of four types of Ga-CH3 groups suggests different pathways for the activation of methane on Ga species. Probing the correlation between protons and protons and between protons and carbon species by using 2D correlation NMR experiments provides detailed information on the reaction routes. Both GaOx and GaO+ species are active for the CH bond activation. Direct cleavage of CH on GaO+ species would lead to Ga-CH3 and Ga-OH groups. While the proximate BAS on zeolite could be involved in the initial CH bond reaction, leading to a different route for the formation of Ga-CH3 group on GaO+ species. Two pathways could occur on highly dispersed GaOx for the formation of Ga-CH3 groups with the concomitant formation of Ga-OH group or the recovery of BAS of zeolite. DFT calculations supports the formation of the observed Ga-CH3 species and proposed CH bond activation pathways. The results presented herein provide insight into methane activation on metal-modified zeolite and are helpful for the mechanistic understanding of the chemistry of light alkanes on zeolites.
Experimental Section Catalyst preparation The ammonium form ZSM-5 (Si/Al=11.5, Zeolyst) was calcined in air at 823K for 6h to obtain the proton form H-ZSM-5. H-ZSM-5 and Ga(NO3)3xH2O (99.99% metal basis, purchased from Aladdin Reagent Co., Ltd.) were used as starting materials. Ga-modified zeolites were prepared according to the previously reported procedure.8, 21 Typically, gallium was incorporated into H-ZSM-5 by incipient wetness impregnation method, 2g of H-ZSM-5 was added into 3mL of Ga(NO3)3 solution containing 0.3668g Ga(NO3)3xH2O. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5h. Then the sample was dried at 383K for 10h and calcined under flowing air at 773K for 6h. The obtained zeolite was denoted as Ga/ZSM-5-ox. The Ga/ZSM-5-ox sample was then subjected to a reduction-oxidation cycles under a H2-O2 flow. 1g of the Ga/ZSM-5-ox was pressed and crushed into pellets between 4060mesh and placed into a stainless tubular fixed-bed reactor (6mm ID, 26cm length). The sample was gradually heated at a temperature ramp rate of 2K/min under N2 atmosphere until reaching the target temperature (723K). At this temperature, the sample was treated with 10% H2/N2 mixture for 2h, then the gas was switched to dry air and kept for 2h; the sample was then cooled down to room temperature in dry air. All the gas flow rates were 60sccm. The resultant sample was denoted as Ga/ZSM-5-redox. For the preparation of Ga2O3/ZSM-5, 2g of H-ZSM-5 and 0.1344g of Ga2O3 (prepared by calcining Ga(NO3)3xH2O at 873K for 6h) were fully grinded in an agate mortar and subsequently calcined at 773K under flowing air for 6h. All Ga-modified zeolites sample contained ca. 5wt% of gallium.
Methane reaction The activation of 13C-enriched methane (13C, 99%, Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.) was carried out in a sealed glass tube (6mm ID, 5cm length). Typically, a controlled amount 13CH4 was introduced onto the pre-activated Ga-modified ZSM-5 catalyst in a glass tube under vacuum at the temperature of liquid N2, and then the glass tube was sealed off from the vacuum system. The reaction of methane adsorbed on Ga-modified ZSM-5 was performed in the sealed glass tube at 573K for 1h and then quenched by liquid N2. Prior to the NMR measurements, the reacted sample was degassed on a vacuum line to remove the physically adsorbed methane, and then the degassed sample was transferred to zirconia rotors under dry nitrogen atmosphere in a glovebox. The reacted Ga/ZSM-5-redox sample was denoted as Ga/ZSM-5-redox-13CH4.
Solid-state NMR measurements 1H single-pulse MAS, 71Ga QCPMG, 2D 1H-1H DQ-SQ MAS and 2D 1H-1H EXSY MAS NMR experiments were carried out at 11.7 T on a Bruker Avance III 500 spectrometer with resonance frequencies of 500.57 and 152.66MHz for 1H and 71Ga, respectively. Prior to 1H MAS NMR experiments, the samples were dehydrated at 673K for 12h under high vacuum (<103Pa) and then transferred to 4mm zirconia rotor in a glovebox under dry nitrogen atmosphere. Single-pulse 1H MAS NMR experiments were performed using a π/2 1H pulse length of 4.2 μs, a repetition time of 4s, and a magic angle spinning rate of 10kHz. The 1H chemical shifts were referenced to adamantane (1.78ppm). The concentration of the BAS on the ZSM-5 zeolites were quantified by integration of the peak at 4.0ppm. The obtained peak areas were referenced to a standard curve established by using adamantane as external standard.For the 2D 1H-1H double-quantum single-quantum (DQ-SQ) MAS NMR experiments, DQ coherences were excited and reconverted with the R1252 pulse sequence with ν1H=3νR=37.5kHz, and the excitation and reconversion time were set to 0.48ms. The increment interval in the indirect dimension was set to 80 μs, and 128t1 increments and 128 scan accumulations for each t1 increment were used.The 2D 1H-1H exchange spectroscopy (EXSY) experiments employed standard 2D three-pulse exchange sequence to determine chemical exchange and spatial proximity between protons, with a dwell time in the indirect dimension being set to 100 μs. Typically, 16 scans were acquired for each t1 increment, with mixing time ranging from 10 to 80ms, a repetition time of 1s, and a magic angle spinning rate of 10kHz. 71Ga WURST-QCPMG22 experiments were performed using a 1.9mm probe at a spinning rate of 40kHz. In the experiments, the central transition (CT) signal was enhanced by irradiating a single satellite transition (ST) sideband using WURST pulse before the CT-selective pulse. Rotor-synchronized inter-pulses and inter-acquisition delays were employed in the QCPMG scheme. The acquisition time for each full echo was 0.56ms and the number of Meiboom-Gill loops was 12. 71Ga WURST-QCPMG spectra of Ga-modified ZSM-5 were acquired by averaging about 60,000 transients with a recycle delay of 1s. The 71Ga chemical shifts were referenced to 1M Ga(NO3)3 aqueous solution (0ppm).The 13C CP/MAS and 2D 1H-13C hetero-nuclear correlation (HETCOR) NMR experiments were carried out at 9.4 T on a Bruker Avance III 400 spectrometer at resonance frequencies of 399.33 and 100.42MHz for 1H and 13C, respectively. All the NMR spectra were acquired on a 4mm probe at a spinning rate of 10kHz. For the 1H13C CP/MAS NMR experiments, the Hartmann-Hahn conditions was achieved using hexamethylbenzene (HMB), with a contact time of 4ms and a repetition time of 2s. The 13C chemical shifts were referenced to adamantine. 2D 1H-13C HETCOR spectra were conducted with a CP contact time of 0.1ms, and the HETCOR spectra with 1H-1H spin diffusion were recorded with a 100ms spin diffusion mixing time being incorporated prior to 1H-13C cross-polarization. The number of scans and t1 increments were set to 320 and 140, respectively.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the variability in intraporous Ga species structure and distribution in H-ZSM-5 zeolites, influenced by factors such as Ga loading and Si/Al ratio, challenge the assumption of uniform PDH activity, and what implications does the observed non-monotonic relationship between Ga/Al ratio and catalytic performance have for understanding the true nature of active sites and optimizing Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 