I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Although it is clear that improved mesoporosity in FCC catalysts improves the performance, this does not imply that ultra-large-pore zeolites are necessarily good active ingredients in FCC catalysts.108 In the cracking of model reactants like n-hexane, for instance, MCM-41 performs much poorer than zeolite US-Y. In the cracking of larger molecules, like gas oil cracking, the difference is smaller, but the low thermal stability of MCM-41 prevents its application under the severe FCC process conditions.
Early work by Derouane and co-workers109 explains this effect. The authors describe the role of the curvature of the zeolite pore surface and explain that the interaction between molecules and the zeolite surface is strongest when the radius of the molecule and the surface curvature are similar. At this exact fit, a number of phenomena are described that have a direct effect on the performance, e.g. a supermobility instead of Knudsen diffusion. The increased interaction leads to increased concentration of reactants near the acid sites, and expresses itself macroscopically as increased apparent acid strength. This implies that the 3D structure of the zeolite and its effect on sorption equilibria can play a large role in reaction kinetics; they directly influence the observed rate of reaction, especially when the sorption energetics are magnified by the surface curvature.110 This implies that the decreased rate of cracking of n-hexane in MCM-41 as compared to zeolite US-Y does not necessarily mean that the acid sites in MCM-41 are weaker than those in zeolite US-Y.
Apart from zeolite Y and ZSM-5, other zeolites have been tested in FCC catalysis. Zeolite Beta, for instance, has been studied extensively. Although economics and thermal stability have thus far prevented the application of zeolite Beta in large-scale FCC processes, it is known111113 that (P-stabilized111) zeolite Beta improves C4-yields. Bonetto et al. describe an optimal crystallite size for stability, activity and selectivity for zeolite Beta in gas oil cracking.112 Mavrovouniotis et al. ascribe the higher olefinicity in the gases for zeolite Beta to a lower hydrogen transfer activity.113 The issue of cost and stability returns for many of the new structures proposed for FCC applications. Quite often, complicated organic SDAs, or exotic framework constituents (e.g. Ge and Ga), or fluoride-assisted syntheses are required to even synthesize (new) zeolite structures. These do not translate well to the scale of operation, catalyst consumption and the severity of the FCC process. Nevertheless, we will discuss some recent developments in the paragraphs below.
Fig. 20 gives an overview of some of the new zeolites tested in FCC as a function of their pore diameters. When examining the medium pore size zeolite MCM-22,114 Corma et al. observed little activity in the cracking of larger molecules. When using it in an additive similar to zeolite ZSM-5 additives, zeolite MCM-22 produces less gases (lower loss in gasoline yield), but with higher olefinicity (so higher propylene and butylene selectivity than ZSM-5). ZSM-5 is more active, though. ITQ-13115 with a 3D 9-MR × 10-MR pore system, presents acid sites that are similar in strength to those of ZSM-5, or stronger. The specific pore structure induces an increased yield of propylene in VGO cracking.
Fig. 20 New zeolites tried in FCC applications, ranked according to the size of their pore systems. Many of the new zeolites have mixed pore systems, allowing them to show performance in between the conventional zeolites ZSM-5 and Y.
Zeolite ITQ-7116 has a pore system similar to zeolite Beta, yet a higher gasoline yield and improved olefin selectivity are observed in FCC cracking, where an ITQ-7 containing additive was used.117 The authors conclude that the specific structure and tortuosity of the pore system favors β-scission over protolytic cracking and limits hydrogen transfer reactions.
Zeolite ZSM-20118 and ITQ-21119 both have structures that resemble zeolite Y, and pore openings that are similar in size to zeolite Y. Their cracking characteristics are similar to zeolite Y, except for a higher gas (LPG) and propylene yield but lower gasoline olefinicity in ITQ-21. Zeolite ZSM-20 shows good thermal stability compared to zeolite Y, but this does not directly translate into higher activity.
In their description of the new zeolite IM-5, Corma et al.120,121 apply various cracking and isomerization tests (i.e., n-decane hydroisomerizationcracking, m-xylene isomerizationdisproportionation, and n-hexadecane isodewaxing) and adsorption tests to study the pore morphology and suitability of the structure for cracking reactions. The structure is described as having 10-MR pores with side pockets, and performance of the material in some cases is close to ZSM-5, possibly with improved thermal stability.
Moliner et al.122 describe the synthesis of ITQ-39, a new zeolite with a three-directional channel system with interconnected large (12-MR) and medium pores (10-MR). The zeolite performs well in the alkylation of benzene to cumene. The authors claim the material would be a good additive for FCC since its pore system behaves as an intermediate between zeolites ZSM-5 and Beta. The silica-germanate ITQ-33, from the same group123 is another zeolite with a mixed pore system, in this case an intersecting 18-MR10-MR system. This material was compared to ITQ-17, a material with the same composition but only 12-MR pores, as well as zeolite Beta (3D 12-MR pores). Cracking experiments were performed with 1,3-diisopropylbenzene (DIPB) and 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene (TIPB), i.e. relatively large molecules that do not easily fit in small pores (DIPB can diffuse through 12-MR pores, TIPB cannot). The authors conclude the material behaves like a 12-MR, i.e. it has a medium-strong acid site strength. The material was also tested in VGO cracking, yielding more middle distillates than zeolite US-Y or Beta at the same conversion.124 A catalyst mixture of ITQ-33 and ZSM-5 yielded more middle distillate as well as significantly more propylene than zeolite US-Y, even when the US-Y was also tested with ZSM-5 additive. Economics and stability of the material may impede its widespread application, though.
There are other new or fairly recently described materials that could be of use for FCC, but these have not been extensively discussed, such as the 11-MR systems JU-64 (JSR125) and EMM-25,126 and the 12-MR system MCM-68 (MSE127). Other structures with mixed pore systems include EMM-11 (10-8MR),128 and the 10-MR/12-MR systems SSZ-57 (*SFV129) and CIT-1/SSZ-26/SSZ-33/EMM-22 (CON130132).
5. Changes in feedstock and new applications of FCC catalysts
5.1. Co-processing biomass-derived oxygenates with FCC catalysts
Due to growing awareness of depleting crude oil resources, rising CO2 levels, global warming and securing energy supply it would be advantageous to use biomass-derived feedstock in existing petroleum refineries.133 As petroleum refineries are already in place the use of this infrastructure for the production of fuels and base chemicals, such as propylene, from biomass requires  in principle  relatively little investment costs. An attractive, and already explored option is the co-processing of biomass-derived oxygenates with petroleum-derived fractions, such as VGO.
FCC of biomass-derived oxygenates gives products with higher hydrogen content than the starting biomass-based feedstock by removing oxygen as carbon monoxide as well as carbon dioxide, next to an increased amount of water. In addition, higher amounts of carbon deposits are found on the FCC catalyst material, which then can be burned off in the regeneration to produce process heat. Alternatively, the coke deposits formed by co-processing biomass with VGO during FCC can be converted into synthesis gas (CO + H2), which can be used elsewhere in the oil refinery. Another important issue relates to the significant content of water in biomass-derived oxygenates, which may not dissolve into VGO, although some options have been discussed by Corma and co-workers.134 In this article we focus on the catalytic cracking of biomass-derived feedstocks mixed with petroleum-derived feedstocks making use of real-life FCC catalyst materials. This topic has been the subject of several review articles and we refer here the reader to the excellent articles of Huber & Corma and Stocker for the required background and the various possibilities for catalytic cracking of lignocellulosic- and triglycerides-based feedstocks.135,136 Examples include sugars (glucose and xylose), sugar alcohols (e.g. xylitol and glycerol), lignin as well as vegetable oils. Other more recent review papers are of the hands of Al-Sabawi and co-workers137 and Kubicka and Kikhtyanin.138 Active research groups include those of e.g. Schuurman & Mirodatos [e.g.ref. 139142], Kersten & van Swaaij [e.g.ref. 143145], Naik & Kumar [e.g.ref. 146 and 147], Corma [e.g.ref. 134 and 148] and Lappas & Vasalos [e.g.ref. 149 and 150].
Fig. 21 summarizes the different reaction pathways for the catalytic cracking of biomass-derived oxygenates, which involves, according to Corma et al.,134 five different classes of reactions: (a) dehydration reactions, producing water; (b) cracking of large oxygenated biomass-based molecules into smaller molecules; (c) hydrogen-producing reactions; (d) hydrogen-consuming reactions; and (e) production of larger molecules by carboncarbon bond formation. Although the FCC process in principle does not require hydrogen it can be produced through steam reforming and watergas shift reactions as well as dehydrogenation and decarbonylation of biomass-derived molecules.
Fig. 21 Reaction pathways for the catalytic cracking of biomass-derived oxygenates. Reproduced with permission from ref. 135, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2007.
A seminal mechanistic contribution in this field of research originates from the group of Schuurman and Mirodatos, who have explored the 14C technique  known to discriminate fossil carbon from bio-carbon since fossil fuel is virtually free of 14C, while biofuel contains the present-day amount of 14C  to determine how the carbon from the co-processed biomass re-distributes in the range of FCC products formed. This has been done by co-processing hydro-deoxygenated (HDO) bio-oil with VGO feedstock over an E-cat FCC catalyst. It was found that the bio-carbon was mainly concentrated in the gas fraction (10.6%) and in the coke deposits (15.8%), while the gasoline produced contains only around 7% of the bio-carbon. In other words, it was found that co-processing leads to a bio-carbon impoverished gasoline, and a bio-carbon enriched LPG product slate. Such an uneven bio-carbon distribution can be explained by the changes in the cracking routes during co-processing, arising essentially from the competitive adsorption of the polar oxygenated molecules and non-polar hydrocarbon molecules in the mesopore space of the FCC catalyst material. The HDO bio-oil molecules are preferentially cracked and deoxygenated into light gases, which seems to inhibit the production of bottom, LCO and gasoline from the VGO feedstock. The larger coke formation, which was noted to be richer in bio-carbon, could originate from the re-polymerization of phenolic compounds. Another part of the increased coke formation may originate from the depletion in hydrogen due to water formation.
A detailed study on the catalytic cracking of various bio-oil model compounds, which could be co-processed in an FCC unit, has been performed by Sedran and co-workers.151,152 This group has studied, making use of an E-cat FCC catalyst, the influence of various functional groups in biomass-derived molecules on the catalytic conversion, selectivity and coke levels, and compared them to those obtained for thermal cracking of the very same model compounds. More in particular, they have investigated the following biomass-derived model compounds: methanol (MEL), acetic acid (ACET), methyl acetate (MACET), furfural (FUR), 3-methyl-2-pentanone (MP), 2-hidroxy-3-methylcyclopenenone (HMCP), phenol (PHE), 2,6-dimethoxyphenol (SYR) and 1,2,4-trimethoxybenzene (TMBENZ). Table 1 summarizes the results of the thermal and catalytic cracking, including the conversion, as well as the yields of hydrocarbons, oxygenates, H2, CO2, CO, H2O and coke deposits.
Table 1 Thermal and catalytic conversion of various biomass-derived model compounds when using an E-cat FCC catalyst and a reaction temperature of 500 C in a fixed bed laboratory reactor for 60 s. The selectivity is expressed as a distribution in wt% of the hydrocarbon products analysed. SiC was used as inert material in the reactor to simulate thermal cracking, while nr in the table implies not reported values Model compound Thermal or catalytic cracking Conversion (%) Yields (wt%) Hydrocarbons Oxygenates H2 CO2 CO H2O Coke Unknown Methanol SiC 22.6 0.2 5.4 2.4 0.8 nr 13.6 0.2 nr E-cat 60.8 7.1 4.0 3.5 12.2 nr 27.0 5.5 1.7 Acetic acid SiC 45.0 10.4 5.0 17.5 8.2 nr 3.6 0.3 nr E-cat 50.4 4.2 5.2 6.6 22.9 nr 9.9 1.6 nr Methyl acetate SiC 95.3 0.4 81.6 5.2 3.0 nr 4.7 0.4 nr E-cat 95.1 0.9 54.5 3.7 22.2 nr 6.4 7.4 nr Furfural SiC 21.6 5.3 0.7 6.7 1.1 nr 6.8 1.0 nr E-cat 78.2 32.1 9.0 5.7 9.6 1.8 12.8 7.2 nr 3-Methyl-2-penta-none SiC 24.9 0.3 17.9 0.6 1.2 nr 3.1 0.1 1.7 E-cat 79.6 37.6 20.7 0.5 1.1 nr 13.7 5.9 nr 2-Hidroxy-3-methyl-cyclopentenone SiC 37.7 5.0 14.4 3.7 1.9 nr 10.0 0.7 2.0 E-cat 84.5 14.0 9.4 8.1 35.7 1.2 2.3 12.8 1.0 Phenol SiC 8.2 0.2 nr 1.1 4.0 nr 2.8 0.1 nr E-cat 54.9 34.9 2.0 1.6 4.0 nr 8.0 4.4 nr Syringol SiC 56.7 0.4 39.0 3.0 7.5 nr 6.0 0.8 nr E-cat 75.0 2.1 32.5 4.1 22.9 nr 4.9 8.5 nr Trimethoxy-benzene SiC 97.1 57.8 3.4 2.3 32.9 0.3 nr 0.4 nr E-cat 95.7 47.1 0.2 2.3 29.8 0.3 nr 16.0 nr It can be concluded from Table 1 that the catalytic cracking activity decreases in the order: TMB > MACET > HMPC > FUR > SYR > MET > PHE > ACET. These conversion levels are, with some exceptions (e.g. TMB), always higher for the catalytic cracking as compared to thermal cracking. Deoxygenation reactions, taking place via dehydration and decarboxylation, results in the production of CO2/CO and H2O, and was very important in all cases, but was very dominant for ACET, MACET, HMPC, SYR and TMB. Deoxygenation reactions were always much lower in the thermal conversions than in the catalytic conversions. The reverse was (almost) the case for coke deposit formation. The reaction products were also very different, ranging from mainly aromatics in the gasoline range for methanol and TMB, to C4-hydrocarbons of olefinic nature for PHE and SYR.
In a follow-up study, Bertero and Sedran have converted a raw and thermally processed pine sawdust bio-oil over an E-cat FCC catalyst and compared their findings with a synthetic bio-oil composed of MEL, ACET, MACET, FUR, HMCP, PHE, SYR and TMBENZ.153 It was found that with this biomass-derived feedstock mainly C4 olefins, oxygenates and coke were formed. In contrast, the synthetic bio-oil produced lesser hydrocarbons and more oxygenates and coke than the sawdust-derived feedstock. Thermal treatment of the raw bio-oil lead to an increased amount of hydrocarbons, and a decreased amount of coke deposits. As a side conclusion it was stated that the behavior of bio-oils over FCC-based catalysts could not be well-described by using mixtures of model compounds, indicating the need for real-life testing, including the use of a commercial FCC catalyst.
Within this context, it is important to refer to the very recent work of Petrobras, who have co-processed raw bio-oil and gasoil in an FCC unit making use of an E-cat FCC catalyst. De Rezende Pinho and co-workers have made use of a bio-oil, produced from the fast pyrolysis of pine woodchips, together with standard VGO in a 150 kg h1 FCC demonstration-scale unit.154 When 10% bio-oil was co-processed, LPG, gasoline and LCO with similar product yields was obtained in comparison with the base VGO feedstock. Increasing this co-processing to levels of 20% bio-oil lead to some product quality deterioration. Very interesting experiments, complementing those of Fogassy and co-workers,142 were conducted with 14C isotopic labeled feedstock to determine the bio-carbon content in the FCC products. As mentioned above, the 14C isotopic analysis performed allowed distinguishing biomass-derived carbon from fossil carbon in the catalytic cracking products; naphtha (gasoline), LCO (diesel range) yield and bottoms. It was found that for 10% bio-oil in the feed, 2% bio-carbon was found in the total liquid product, while for 20% bio-oil in the feed, between 3 and 5% was found, while the bio-carbon in the LCO and bottoms was respectively 5 and 6%. Furthermore, a high amount of phenolic compounds was detected in the naphtha produced by the FCC process, while most of the oxygen present in the bio-oil was removed as water. Another interesting observation was the fact that less coke deposits were formed at this demonstration-scale production plant as anticipated based on literature data making use of lab-scale testing units. These differences should be attributed to the differences in scales as larger scales tend to improve the product qualities due to a better contact between catalyst and feedstock. These results show that co-processing of bio-oils in FCC is technically feasibly at the level of a demonstration plant making use of a practical E-cat FCC catalyst.
The KiOR company has recently explored the commercialization of their catalytic pyrolysis technology making use of FCC catalysts intimately mixed with finely grinded lignocellulosic biomass at a production facility in Columbus (MS, USA).155157 KiOR uses equipment from the paper industry to dry and grind the biomass, which is fed into a modified FCC reactor loaded with a zeolite-based catalyst, performing the actual pyrolysis process. KiOR then separates the pyrolysis oil from the other reaction products and removes O2 by hydrogenation, using purchased H2. The resulting product is then distilled into fuels through standard oil refining technology. Unfortunately, the industrial activities of KiOR, which started around 2012, had to be stopped due to financial problems at the end of 2014.158 Within this context it is important to mention other commercial approaches of producing biomass-based fuels in a refinery, such as the one developed by Neste/Albemarle. The Neste process (NexBTL) deoxygenates fatty acids to yield alkanes and propane (i.e. no fatty acid esters or glycerol are produced) in a catalytic hydrogenolysis process using a proprietary set of catalysts. The process is used in plants in Porvoo, Singapore and Rotterdam, at nearly 2 million tpa capacity.159,160 Kalnes et al. describe a process which combines a deoxygenation stage with an isomerization stage to achieve the same conversion of fatty acids to diesel range alkanes.161
5.2. Processing tight oil and shale oil
One of the challenges facing especially USA-based FCC Units is the increasing use of tight oils. The oils are generally relatively light, and contain low amounts of sulfur and nitrogen and nickel and vanadium. Although all these parameters are generally good for FCC operation, there are also a number of drawbacks to using tight oils. Tight oil cracking gives high naphtha and LPG yields, but these are generally paraffinic, which makes it more difficult to reach octane number targets for the gasoline pool. This needs to be corrected by units outside the FCC complex, such as isoparaffinolefin alkylation and reforming.162 Because the feedstock contains low Conradsen carbon residue, and low aromatics, it is also more difficult to control the coke deposition and thus the unit heat balance. One could say in some aspects that the feed is too easy to crack. The high naphtha and LPG yields can disturb the distillation units and gas plants after the FCC unit, thus limiting the FCC throughput. Although the feed is low on the normal impurities (S, N, Ni and V), tight oils generally contain increased levels of Na, Ca, and Fe.163 Especially the iron can lead to problems,164 since iron deposits on the outside of the FCC particles, forming lumps on the outer surface which can block the pores (as demonstrated by Meirer et al., see extended discussion below165). Na will of course potentially block the acid sites in the zeolite. The challenges described above can partly be addressed through process changes, and by the addition of additional VGO or resid feedstock to the unit. It is also evident that catalyst flexibility and tolerance to the specific contaminants need to be built into the FCC catalysts.162,163
5.3. FCC catalysts in other refinery applications
Thermal coking is a process used in refineries to convert the heaviest part of the crude, the bottom of the barrel into useful products. Three major processes exist in present day refineries: delayed coking, fluid coking, and flexicoking. Because the feedstocks used by refineries are getting heavier, the coker units are utilized more heavily, and may become limiting in refinery operations. Therefore, improvements have been developed to the processes. One of these is to introduce a catalyst-containing additive to the coker feed, and thus transform the thermal coking into (at least partially) a catalytic process. The catalysts applied in this technology are derived from FCC catalysts, since these show a high activity and selectivity to hydrocarbon under similar operating conditions (low pressure, low hydrogen partial pressure), the size requirements are similar, and they can easily and cost-effectively be tailored to meet a variety of demands. Catalysts proposed for this application thus comprise a combination of building blocks found in FCC catalysts (i.e., zeolite, matrix, clay and binder), but not necessarily all of them. This allows control of the cracking/coking ratio and the quality of both hydrocarbon products as well as the coke.166,167
6. Developments in FCC catalyst characterization
During the last two decades we have seen the merge between spectroscopy and microscopy leading to the conception of different micro-spectroscopy approaches.168 These promising characterization techniques now find their way in the field of heterogeneous catalysts, including the characterization of FCC catalysts at the single particle level. It is interesting to observe that at various synchrotron radiation facilities single catalyst particle characterization tools are now becoming available making it possible to compare bulk characterization data with single catalyst particle analysis. A similar trend can be found at analytical companies, which have introduced in recent years a variety of Raman, UV-Vis, IR and fluorescence microscopes, often in combination with microscopy accessories, including scanning/transmission electron microscopy (SEM/TEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM).
In the following paragraphs, we describe the possibilities and limitations of these micro-spectroscopy techniques, as applied to FCC catalyst materials, for shedding new insight in the 2D and/or 3D distribution of (a) metal poisons, (b) acid sites, (c) pore network accessibility and connectivity and (d) ultra-structures, including the zeolite and different matrix components (i.e., clay, silica and alumina).
6.1. X-ray-based characterization methods
Ruiz-Martinez et al.169 have used a combined characterization set-up, comprising μ-X-ray fluorescence (XRF), μ-X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) and μ-X-ray diffraction (XRD), developed at the I18 beamline of the Diamond Light Source. This set-up allows to investigate for the same FCC catalyst particle the 2-D distribution of metal poisons, such as Ni and V, their oxidation state, as well as the presence of the different ultra-structures embedded in the FCC catalyst particle.
The 2D spatial resolution is 5 μm. This approach is illustrated in Fig. 22 for a fresh FCC and an E-cat catalyst particle. As one can expect, the fresh FCC catalyst particle did not contain any appreciable amount of Ni and V, to be detected by the μ-XRF method. Interestingly, high quality XRD patterns could be obtained by the μ-XRD approach, which allowed distinguishing between the diffraction patterns of zeolite Y, clay and boehmite. Moreover, the relative intensity of the diffraction peaks, as well as their exact position, can be used to determine the relative contribution of zeolite Y, as well as the Si/Al ratio of the embedded zeolite aggregates.
Fig. 22 Combined μ-XRF/μ-XANES/μ-XRD data of a single FCC catalyst particle in its fresh state (top) and deactivated state (bottom). Left: μ-XRF 2D chemical maps of Ni (a and g) and V (b and h). Right: μ-XRD 2D chemical maps of zeolite Y (c and i), clay/mullite (d and j), boehmite/γ-alumina (e and k). Far right: 2D reconstructions of the Si/Al ratio for the fresh (f) and deactivated (l) FCC catalyst particle. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 169, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2013.) From Fig. 22c one can conclude that zeolite Y is a randomly distributed, although the embedded zeolite material is not entirely homogeneously present in the catalyst matrix, and some hot spots of high amounts of zeolite Y are found. Furthermore, when considering the Si/Al ratio it can be noticed that this value is rather homogeneous across the entire catalyst particle. In strong contrast, the results for the E-cat catalyst particle are entirely different from those of the fresh FCC particle. First of all, it is obvious from Fig. 22g and h that both Ni and V are present as metal poisons, and that Ni (in green) is present in an egg-shell distribution, whereas V (in blue) penetrates deeper into the inner parts of the FCC catalyst particle. μ-XANES confirmed that V and Ni were mainly present in respectively their 5+ and 2+ oxidation state. Finally, μ-XRD revealed that the diffraction patterns of zeolite Y were much less intense as in the case of the fresh FCC catalyst particle. Furthermore, a distorted egg-shell distribution could be observed for both the relative intensities of zeolite Y (Fig. 22i) and the Si/Al ratio (Fig. 22l). Furthermore, the Si/Al ratio values are much higher than those observed for the fresh FCC catalyst particle (Fig. 22f), indicating that severe dealumination has taken place during metal poisoning, and subsequent catalyst regeneration.
Meirer and co-workers170 have been using element-specific X-ray nano-tomography to investigate the 3D structure of a whole individual FCC catalyst particle at high spatial resolution and in a non-invasive manner. This was done by using a full-field X-ray absorption mosaic nano-tomography set-up at beamline 6.2 of the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, providing better than 30 nm 2D spatial resolution. With this instrumentation it was possible to map the relative spatial distribution of the metal contaminants, Ni and Fe, and correlate these distributions to porosity and permeability changes of an E-cat catalyst particle. Both Ni and Fe were found to accumulate in the outer layers of the catalyst particle, although Ni was found to penetrate in the deeper layers than Fe, effectively decreasing the porosity by clogging the macropores and thereby restricting access into the catalyst particle. This is illustrated in Fig. 23, which shows the permeability calculation of a sub-volume of the E-cat particle of 16.6 × 16.6 × 10 μm3 in size, in which Fe is found in lower concentrations than at the outer catalyst surface, while Ni is more concentrated at the top of the selected sub-volume (Fig. 23b). By simulating the fluid flow through this sub-volume, two distinct effects could be revealed. First, the authors observed a constriction of flow where Ni is present, indicated by the high velocity (red area, Fig. 23c) fluid flow through small cross sectional areas. Elsewhere in the region, with little to no Ni, flow is less inhibited (blue streamlines, Fig. 23c). Secondly, there were areas with large Ni content, which were totally inaccessible because the Ni is clogging some macropores completely.
Fig. 23 X-ray nanotomography study of an E-cat catalyst particle, revealing the relative spatial distributions of Ni and Fe and their effect on the macropore structure and accessibility. A sub-volume of 16.6 × 16.6 × 10 μm3 was selected (b) out of the entire catalyst particle of 44.8 × 52.7 × 51.2 μm3 in size (a), including the relative Fe and Ni distributions. Permeability calculation was applied on this sub-volume (c). Mass transport through the sub-volume along the selected axis (red arrow) is visualized using the velocity field of the fluid. The streamlines indicate the magnitude of the velocity field where red represents the highest velocity (i.e., where the pore space constriction is the largest) and blue indicates the lowest velocity. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 170, Copyright American Chemical Society, 2015).
Another observation made possible by this X-ray nano-tomography study was that valleys and nodules at the outer surface of the FCC catalyst particle were observed, which are similar to those seen in surface topography studies of E-cat samples. Fe was found to be distributed along these valleys and nodules, showing the largest amounts in the top 1 μm outer layer of the E-cat catalyst particle.
The X-ray nano-tomography work of FCC catalyst particles was recently expanded in two papers correlating 3D Fe and Ni contamination with porosity and pore connectivity in individual FCC particles, showing how gradual pore clogging could explain the progressive deactivation of FCC catalysts due to metal poisoning.165 This was done by making use of a unique set of four FCC catalyst particles: i.e., a fresh FCC catalyst particle and three E-cat catalyst particles with increasing metal loading. The latter three particles were obtained by performing a density separation step on a well-characterized E-cat sample. In a subsequent step, X-ray nano-tomography was used to quantify in the changes in single-particle macroporosity and pore connectivity for these four FCC catalyst particles and correlate them with Fe and Ni deposition. Both Fe and Ni were found to be gradually incorporated almost exclusively in the near-surface regions of the FCC catalyst particles, severely limiting the macropore accessibility as metal concentrations increase. Because macropore channels can be regarded as transportation highways of the pore network, blocking them prevents crude oil feedstock molecules from reaching the catalytically active domains. Consequently, metal deposition reduces the catalytic conversion with increasing time on stream because the internal pore volume, although itself unobstructed, becomes largely inaccessible. Furthermore, it was found that metal accumulation at the near-surface regions plays a role in FCC catalyst particle agglutination.171 This was concluded based on a detailed analysis of the concentration distribution of Fe and Ni in a system of agglutinated FCC catalyst particles. It was found that the interfaces between the agglutinated catalyst particles have metal concentrations above the average near-surface concentrations, suggesting that the surface accumulation of Fe and Ni could lead to increased particle clustering, hence decreased cracking activity.Bare and co-workers172 have been studying E-cat catalyst particles at both the ensemble and single particle level making use of a combination of X-ray micro- and nano-tomography as well as μ-XRF and μ-XRD. The X-ray micro- and nano-tomography were performed at respectively beamline 2-BM of the Advanced Photon Source and the X8C beamline of the National Synchrotron Light Source, whereas μ-XRF and μ-XRD data were acquired at beamline ID-D of the Advanced Photon Source. X-ray micro-tomography was used to determine the average size and shape, and their respective distributions, of over 1200 individual E-cat catalyst particles. As shown in Fig. 24a it was found that a large fraction of the E-cat particles contained large internal voids, which certainly affect the particles' density, including their accessibility, and catalytic activity. Fig. 24d shows the equivalent diameter of the internal voids within these E-cat catalyst particles, illustrating that most of them are in the range of 515 μm, whereas still several can even exceed the 25 μm size. 2-D transmission X-ray microscopy images of both situations are shown in respectively Fig. 24b and c.Fig. 24 (a) Single slice of the X-ray micro-tomogram of E-cat particles inside a polyimide tube, which is the circle around the image. The E-cat catalyst particles have a range of shapes and sizes, and some are hollow. Some of them are indicated by the red circles in the image; (b and c) 2D transmission X-ray microscopy images of sections of two E-cat particles showing different sizes of internal voids, which are the dark colored regions in the images; and (d) equivalent diameter of internal voids in the set of E-cat catalyst particles as investigated with X-ray micro-tomography. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 172, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2014).X-ray nano-tomography revealed, in addition to these large micrometer-sized pores, voids in the sub-micrometer range, with macropores as small as 100 nm in diameter. Furthermore, the method was able to resolve different ultra-structures, such as clay, TiO2, and La-stabilized zeolite Y.The μ-XRF measurements performed by the authors revealed that Ni was preferentially located on the exterior of the E-cat particles, while V was more deposited throughout the catalyst particle, confirming the observations of Ruiz-Martinez et al.169 Finally, the measured μ-XRD patterns allowed the identification of the zeolite LaY aggregates present, including the determination of the lattice parameters of zeolite Y, providing direct insight in the dealumination degree of the material.Da Silva et al.173 used a combination of phase-contrast X-ray micro-tomography and high-resolution ptychographic X-ray tomography to investigate a model FCC catalyst body, consisting of a mixture of 5% La2O3-exchanged zeolite Y and metakaolin, at the single particle level. The two types of tomographic methods have been performed at the TOMCAT and cSAXS beamlines of the Swiss Light Source. Fig. 25 illustrates the results as obtained with ptychographic X-ray tomography operating at a 3D spatial resolution of 39 nm. Fig. 25a shows a vertical slice of the electron-density tomogram for the FCC catalyst body. The two distinct material phases present can be clearly distinguished, and the upper and some lateral parts that appear brighter indicate some re-deposition of materials during the focused ion beam (FIB) milling of this model FCC catalyst particle.Fig. 25 Ptychographic X-ray nano-tomography data on a model FCC catalyst body consisting of 5% La2O3-exchanged zeolite Y and metakaolin. (a) Vertical section from the middle of the electron-density tomogram. Both materials are indicated by the arrows and could be identified via their different electron density. (b) Some selected axial sections of the phase-contrast tomogram. The colored squares at the top-left corner correspond to the positions of the colored lines in (a). (cf) 3D rending of metakaolin in blue, zeolite Y in red, and pores in light blue. (g and h) Two orthogonal sections from the middle of the tomogram, some enclosed pores are shown in blue. The scale bars are 1 μm. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 173, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2015).Fig. 25b presents a selection of axial sections for different vertical positions of the tomograms obtained, with the different colored squares reflecting different heights in the catalyst body shown in Fig. 25a. The top region is mostly metakaolin with only few spots of zeolite material, whereas the deeper parts contain more zeolite material. The zeolites are round and porous, whereas the metakaolin is more square-shaped, and these differences in morphology also lead to the formation of interparticle pores of irregular shapes. By taking into account the mass density differences between 5% La2O3-exchanged zeolite Y and metakaolin it has been possible to obtain the 3D rendering of both components, as shown in Fig. 25cf. Here, the metakaolin clay, zeolite and pores are colored in blue, red and light blue, respectively. As the spatial resolution of the ptychographic X-ray tomography method is in the same range as that of mercury porosimetry, this methodology has been applied on the model FCC catalyst material under investigation. It was found that there was a fairly good agreement with the pore diameter range as probed with the local and global characterization method.Kalirai et al. have recently used synchrotron-based multi-element XRF tomography with a large array Maia detector to investigate the 3-D distributions of metal poisons (i.e., Fe, Ni, V and Ca) and structural markers (i.e., La and Ti) within individual, intact and industrially deactivated FCC catalyst particles at two different catalytic life-stages.174 This study was performed making use of the recently developed set-up at the PO6 beamline at the Petra III synchrotron (DESY, Hamburg, Germany). It was found that for all metal poisons under study there is a radial concentration gradient where there is a maximum near the surface of the catalyst particle, gradually decreasing towards the particle's interior. Correlation analysis of the metal poisons revealed that Fe, Ni and Ca are highly correlated, particularly at the particle's exterior, where they form a shell around the FCC catalyst particle. V clearly penetrates further into the particle. This is illustrated in Fig. 26. However, no spatial correlation was found for V with La, hinting that V does not specifically interact with the zeolite domains and is present near the Al2O3-based matrix components of the catalyst particle.Fig. 26 Comparison of clustering masks for the metal poisons Fe, Ni, V and Ca for an individual E-cat FCC catalyst particle for the correlation pairs Fe/Ni, Fe/V and Fe/Ca as determined with X-ray micro-fluorescence tomography. (Redrawn from ref. 174).
6.2. Visible and infrared light-based characterization methods
Buurmans, Ruiz-Martinez and coworkers175 have developed a set of selective staining reactions, which are catalyzed by Brnsted acid sites, making it possible to localize zeolite aggregate domains with a confocal fluorescence microscope. More specifically, various thiophene and styrene derivatives could be oligomerized selectively within the pores of zeolites Y and ZSM-5 embedded in an FCC catalyst matrix. As the resulting probe molecule oligomers have a distinct optical spectrum in the visible region of the spectrum, it was possible to excite the oligomers formed with an appropriate laser excitation in a confocal fluorescence microscope with a 2D spatial resolution of 500 nm. This selective staining approach is illustrated in Fig. 27 for two fresh FCC catalyst particles, one containing zeolite Y, whereas the other one was devoid in zeolite material. Clearly, green spots in the size of 2 μm or smaller could be discerned, which were clearly absent in the FCC catalyst particle containing no zeolite Y. Based on this selective staining approach three industrially relevant deactivation methods, namely steaming (ST), two-step cyclic deactivation (CD) and Mitchel impregnation-steam deactivation (MI), have been evaluated, and compared with both fresh FCC and E-cat samples.
Fig. 27 Confocal fluorescence microscopy images showing the visualization of zeolite Y aggregate domains within an FCC catalyst particle with (a and b) and without (c and d) zeolite material. The images were obtained after reaction with thiophene (green) at 373 K and subsequent staining with Nile Blue (red) at 298 K. Images b and d are magnified views of the highlighted areas in a and c, respectively. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 175, Copyright Macmillan Publishers, 2011).
A statistical analysis of the fluorescence microscopy data obtained for the two sets of FCC catalyst materials (labeled as FCC1 and FCC2), originating from two different manufacturing routes, are shown in Fig. 28. By comparing the fluorescence intensity values for the FCC1 and FCC2 catalyst batches, the reliability of the staining method has been verified. The fluorescence microscopy images for the fresh and deactivated FCC1 and FCC2 catalyst batches were very similar, as was there average fluorescence intensities. Interestingly, the fluorescence intensity trend follows the order: Fresh > ST > CD > MI. Because sufficiently strong Brnsted acid sites are needed for the formation of fluorescent carbocations upon e.g. thiophene oligomerization, this means that the amount of strong acid sites has decreased following the severity of the applied deactivation method. The sustained accessibility of the internal volume was confirmed with a staining reaction with the unreactive Nile Blue, which is too large to enter the zeolite pores. Furthermore, it was found that the E-cat sample has a fluorescence intensity, hence acidity, value in between that of the CD and MI FCC catalyst particles.
Fig. 28 Statistical analysis of the confocal fluorescence microscopy data obtained after thiophene selective staining for two different batches of FCC catalyst particles (FCC1 and FCC2, in orange and purple, respectively), which have been subjected to different degrees of deactivation; i.e., fresh, two-step cyclic deactivated (CD), Mitchell impregnated-steam deactivated (MI). For comparison, data for an E-cat sample have been added to the diagram in black. The fluorescence mean intensities and their corresponding standard errors have been determined from the statistical analysis of at least 150 zeolitic domains in the confocal fluorescence microscopy images of the different batches of FCC catalyst samples. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 175, Copyright Macmillan Publishers, 2011).
These findings have been corroborated by catalytic cracking activity measurements, as well as bulk XRD, IR spectroscopy after pyridine adsorption, TPD of ammonia and N2 physisorption measurements. These additional bulk characterization data on the two sets of FCC catalyst batches confirmed that the developed confocal fluorescence microscopy data are in line with the observed Brnsted acidity trends. Finally, the advantage of developed single particle analysis approach is that the average fluorescence intensity per individual FCC catalyst particle can be determined. This is shown in Fig. 29. It was found that the range of fluorescence intensities observed for the E-cat sample is wider than for CD and MI combined, reflecting the large interparticle heterogeneity in terms of age, Brnsted acidity and catalytic activity within an industrial E-cat sample. Interestingly, a similar wide range in fluorescence intensity, hence Brnsted acidity, was also observed for fresh FCC catalyst particles.
Fig. 29 Interparticle Brnsted acidity mapping for seven FCC1 catalyst particles, which have been subjected to different degrees of deactivation; i.e., fresh, two-step cyclic deactivated (CD), Mitchell impregnated-steam deactivated (MI), and their comparison with the mapping results of seven E-cat catalyst particles. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 175, Copyright Macmillan Publishers, 2011).
In a follow-up manuscript, Buurmans and co-workers176 have extended their selective staining approach of FCC catalyst particles for the determination of reactive zeolite ZSM-5 and Y aggregates within single FCC catalyst particles making use of 4-fluorostyrene and 4-methoxystyrene as probe molecules. Both styrene derivatives have different oligomerization reactivities, 4-fluorostyrene preferentially visualizing strong Brnsted acid sites, whereas 4-methoxystyrene as staining molecule reveals both weak and strong Brnsted acid sites.
It was found that the zeolite ZSM-5 aggregates are 15 μm in size and are inhomogeneously distributed within the FCC matrix. Fresh as well as three distinct laboratory-deactivated catalyst particles were studied upon reaction with the two styrene derivatives. When comparing these four sets of zeolite ZSM-5-containing FCC catalyst particles the Brnsted acidity decreases in the order: fresh > steamed > CD > MI. In the case of ZSM-5 as zeolite material, the same activity trends were obtained for 4-methoxy- and 4-fluorostyrene as probe molecule. However, this was not the case for the zeolite Y-containing FCC catalyst particles. It was found that these FCC catalyst particles show lower fluorostyrene intensity values upon reaction with 4-fluorostyrene, suggesting that not every acidic site within the catalyst particles has sufficient strength to convert 4-fluorostyrene into fluorescent carbocations. In other words, a large fraction of the Brnsted acid sites could be visualized with the less-demanding 4-methoxystyrene, while only a small fraction is observed upon reaction with 4-fluorostyrene. This observation is indicative for the higher Brnsted acid site diversity in FCC catalyst particles containing zeolite Y as compared to FCC catalyst particles containing zeolite ZSM-5. This conclusion is corroborated by ammonia TPD results on the same set of FCC catalyst materials. Indeed, the ammonia TPD curve for the FCC catalyst containing ZSM-5 shows a more well-defined pattern, which corresponds well with the more homogeneous Brnsted acid strength deduced from the confocal fluorescence microscopy experiments.
Sprung and Weckhuysen177 refined the confocal fluorescence microscopy approach for single FCC catalyst particles, containing ZSM-5, and determined the size, distribution, orientation and amount of zeolite ZSM-5 aggregates within binder material. More specifically, by making use of the anisotropic nature of zeolite ZSM-5 crystals and its interaction with plane-polarized laser light it turned out to be possible to distinguish between zeolite ZSM-5 aggregates and the various binder materials (i.e., alumina, silica and clay) after staining the FCC catalyst particles with 4-fluorostyrene as a probe molecule. It was found that the amount of detected fluorescent light corresponds to about 15 wt% of zeolite material, whereas statistical analysis of the emitted fluorostyrene light indicated that a large number of ZSM-5 domains appeared in small sizes of 0.0150.25 μm2, representing single zeolite crystals or small aggregates thereof. On the other hand, the highest amount of the zeolite ZSM-5 material within the FCC matrix was aggregated into larger domains (ca. 15 μm2) with more or less similarly oriented zeolite crystallites.
Unfortunately, the confocal fluorescence microscopy approach described above cannot resolve sub-micrometer zeolite domains in great detail, and does also not provide any quantitative information about catalytic activity of the individual zeolite aggregates dispersed within the FCC matrix. For this purpose, single molecule fluorescence microscopy can be called in as a very sensitive and informative method. Ristanovic and co-workers178 have very recently reported the first application of single-molecule fluorescence microscopy and the required data analysis methods to quantitatively investigate Brnsted acidity and related catalytic activity in a single FCC catalyst particle containing ZSM-5. The approach developed in this work has a 2D spatial resolution of 30 nm; the approach and related results are summarized in Fig. 30.
Fig. 30 (a) Schematic of the single-molecule fluorescence approach developed for visualizing reactivity within a single FCC catalyst particle, containing zeolite ZSM-5 domains, which are depicted in red. (b) Formation of the fluorescent products (red) upon oligomerization of non-fluorescent furfuryl alcohol (black) on a Brnsted acid site. (c) The geometry of the analyzed focal slices and denoted focal depths. The inner regions of the FCC catalyst particles, depicted in gray, were not included in the data analysis. (d) A wide-field fluorescence micrograph of an FCC particle recorded during the oligomerization of furfuryl alcohol. The white circles indicate localized fluorescence bursts originating from the fluorescent products. (e) A photo-trajectory of a representative single catalytic turnover, indicated with a white arrow in (d). (f) A cluster analysis of the zeolite ZSM-5 domains size within a single FCC catalyst particle has been applied on different SOFI images, in this case one taken at a focal depth of 1 μm. (g) Histogram of the zeolite domains size distribution originating from the SOFI image in (f). (h) SOFI image of a selected 1 μm2 region of interest indicating the fluorescent zeolite domains. (i) Catalytic turnover rate as a function of average brightness in the SOFI image, calculated for 65 individual zeolite domains. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 178, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2015).
To selectively study the zeolite ZSM-5 domains within the FCC catalyst particles the oligomerization of furfuryl alcohol was used as a selective probe reaction. The 532 nm laser light can excite the fluorescent oligomers formed from the non-fluorescent furfuryl alcohol monomers when brought in contact with Brnsted acid sites. The individual fluorescent reaction products are detected with a very sensitive detector and a typical fluorescence trajectory of an individual hotspot can be visualized (Fig. 30e). Fig. 30d shows a 2D wide-field fluorescence micrograph of an FCC particle, in which the white circles indicate localized fluorescence bursts originating from the fluorescent oligomerization products. In a next step, a statistical analysis procedure has been developed to obtain accumulated reactivity maps for Brnsted acid domains present within the FCC catalyst particles. An example of a so-called SOFI map is shown in Fig. 30f, which has been obtained for a focal depth of 1 μm. Interestingly, these SOFI maps allow to determine the aggregate sizes of the zeolite ZSM-5 domains and Fig. 30g shows a histogram of the zeolite domains distribution. It can be seen that most of the zeolite ZSM-5 domains are well-dispersed and range in their size between 0 and 0.2 μm2.
This is in good agreement with the zeolite ZSM-5 dispersion data described earlier by Sprung and Weckhuysen,177 although the single molecule fluorescence microscopy study now allows to obtain much higher spatial resolution, as illustrated in Fig. 30h. Another advantage of the single molecule spectroscopy approach is that it enables to put reactivity numbers on the visualized zeolite ZSM-5 aggregates. More specifically, the intensity map in Fig. 30h reveals the presence of zeolite aggregate domains, which have almost no reactivity towards furfuryl alcohol, whereas other zeolite aggregate domains are much more reactive. As a consequence, one can plot the SOFI brightness of distinct zeolite ZSM-5 domains as a function of their measured turnover rates. This approach is shown in Fig. 30i, which indicates that the most active zeolite ZSM-5 domains differ approximately an order of magnitude in reactivity when compared to the less active zeolite ZSM-5 domains. These reactivity differences should be related to differences in the framework aluminum content of the embedded zeolite domains and/or local accessibility differences.
Another powerful chemical imaging technique, namely IR microscopy with a 2D spatial resolution of 10 μm, has been explored by Buurmans et al.179 and applied on single FCC catalyst particles containing zeolite Y, either in their fresh or deactivated state. By investigating a population of 15 FCC catalyst particles, after adsorption of pyridine, it has been possible to evaluate both Brnsted and Lewis acidity at the single particle level. Comparable acidity trends have been obtained as with bulk pyridine transmission IR spectroscopy and they follow the same reactivity order as described before when using confocal fluorescence microscopy; i.e., Fresh > ST > CD > MI. In other words, the IR microscopy data corroborate the data obtained with confocal fluorescence microscopy, indicating that it is now possible to reliably access Brnsted acidity within FCC catalyst particles at the single particle level. Moreover, the single FCC catalyst particle IR study revealed large interparticle heterogeneities in both Brnsted and Lewis acidity within the different FCC catalyst batches. Interestingly, and in line with the data described in Fig. 29, E-cat catalyst particles possess a significantly wider variety in Brnsted acidity as compared to CD and MI FCC catalyst particles, which may be explained by the age distribution in the E-cat.
6.3. Correlative characterization methods
Ideally one would like to link reactivity differences to information on the ultra-structures of the different components present within a single FCC catalyst particle. This has recently become possible by using an integrated laser and electron microscope (iLEM) as a chemical imaging method, as demonstrated by Karreman and co-workers,180 and by combining fluorescence microscopy with Focused Ion Beam-Scanning Electron Microscopy (FIB-SEM) imaging, as explored by Buurmans, De Winter, and co-workers.181,182 The iLEM technique combines the strength of a regular fluorescence microscope with that of a transmission electron microscope (TEM), but now performed in one set-up. It enables the rapid identification of fluorescent domains after applying a selective staining procedure and subsequent investigation of these regions with superior spatial resolution as provided by TEM.
To make this possible FCC catalyst particles containing zeolite Y has been first stained taking 4-fluorostyrene as probe molecule, followed by embedding the stained FCC catalyst particles within a resin. In a next step thin sections of the FCC material have been made and placed on a TEM grid. In a first step fluorescence microscopy images have been collected to determine the relative fluorescence of specific domains in the sliced FCC catalyst particles, followed by a detailed TEM analysis of the ultra-structures, which show (in different degrees) fluorescence upon staining, or simply are not fluorescent. The iLEM method, as applied to a fresh FCC catalyst particle, allowed the identification of areas mainly consisting of zeolite Y, present as structures with dimensions of a few hundred nanometers that display a very strong structural resemblance to pure zeolite Y, which became fluorescent after catalyst staining. Electron diffraction patterns confirmed the presence of zeolite Y. Other areas, which did not show any appreciable fluorescence upon catalyst staining, consisted of matrix material and for example plate-like components, assumed to be clay particles, as well as amorphous material could be observed. Finally, areas with intermediate fluorescence intensity upon catalyst staining revealed the presence of a mixture of zeolite, clay and amorphous material. To further explore the iLEM method an FCC catalyst material hydrothermally deactivated with steam has been investigated. In contrast to fresh FCC catalyst particles, steamed FCC catalyst particles showed much lower fluorescence intensity. Furthermore, the steam treatment also affected the zeolite Y structure as a large fraction of the crystals was damaged and appeared macroporous. Electron diffraction experiments indicated that in addition to the diffraction maxima of zeolite Y, also small γ-Al2O3 crystallites were present.
In a follow-up study, Karreman et al.183 have systematically investigated a large set of iLEM images obtained for stained FCC catalyst particles, either fresh or steamed, as well as stained E-cat catalyst particles. This enabled the identification of a wide variety of ultra-structures, which are summarized in Fig. 31. In addition to the expected undamaged zeolite and clay domains, which are exclusively present in the fresh FCC catalyst particles, also mesoporous, macroporous, clotted and severed zeolite domains could be discerned. Furthermore, it was found that next to amorphous regions also fragments and damaged clay domains can be present. Fig. 32 illustrates the advantage of the iLEM method by focusing on the presence of clotted zeolites, which occur almost exclusively in E-cat catalyst particles. One can notice that in the outer surface region of the red-colored fluorescent E-cat catalyst particle there is a region which has a clear ultra-structure, but which is non-fluorescent.
Fig. 31 Representative TEM images of various structural features observed in fresh and steamed FCC catalyst particles, as well as E-cat catalyst particles. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 183, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2013).
Fig. 32 (a) Fluorescence microscopy/TEM overlay image of a brightly fluorescing FCC particle slice. (b) Zoom-in of (a) in which the black rectangle shows the periphery of the particle, which is not fluorescent. (c) TEM imaging of the area boxed in (b) confirming the presence of a rim of clotted zeolites surrounding this FCC catalyst particle. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 183, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2013).
This non-fluorescent layer is about 1 μm thick, and a further zoom-in revealed that it consists of 200500 nm-sized crystallites. It was assumed that these clotted zeolite crystals, with very low or no Brnsted acidity, are poisoned with metals, such, as Fe, Ni or V, as one may expect from the higher described X-ray micro- and nano-tomography studies.
In an analogous manner, Buurmans, de Winter and co-workers have first stained the zeolite domains within individual FCC catalyst particles by making use of 4-fluorostyrene as probe molecule, followed by subsequently FIB-milling the catalyst particle, followed by imaging the porosity network with SEM.181,182Fig. 33 shows a snapshot of the porous network of an FCC catalyst particle, including a fluorescence microscopy image, illustrating that both zeolite domains and porosity can be imaged, and both types of information can be correlated.
Fig. 33 (a) SE SEM image of an FCC catalyst particle. (b) BSE SEM image; (c) confocal fluorescence microscopy image (λex = 561 nm, detection 570620 nm, false color image) and (d) overlay of the BSE SEM image with the confocal fluorescence microscopy image for the particle depicted in (a) after milling away a 7 μm thick slice using the FIB. (e) Three-dimensional reconstruction of the porous network in a volume of 24.6 × 12.1 × 2.0 μm of an FCC particle, constructed from the combination of a number of FIB-SEM images. Macropores are shown in blue, the external surface is shown in yellow. Reproduced from ref. 181.
From the detailed iLEM characterization study Karreman and co-workers have proposed a model for the functional and structural degradation of zeolite Y crystals in FCC and E-cat catalyst particles. This is summarized in Fig. 34. FCC catalyst particles have a different deactivation route than E-cat catalyst particles. In the case of an E-cat catalyst particle, deactivation occurs mostly through fragmentation and/or decrystallization of zeolite crystals and the formation of meso- and macropores (Fig. 34, right hand side). Furthermore, the observed clotting of mesoporous zeolites (Fig. 34, left hand side) is limited to E-cat materials. In contrast, steam deactivation strongly induces the severing of the zeolite Y crystals, while the formation of fragments in these samples is very rarely observed. The latter indicates that the formation of fragments is a phenomenon reserved for the harsh industrial catalytic cracking conditions.
Fig. 34 Model for the functional and structural degradation of zeolite Y crystals in FCC catalyst particles in an industrial catalytic cracking unit. The right placed red arrow indicates the relative change in fluorescence intensity measured for each ultra-structure feature. (Reproduced with permission from ref. 183, Copyright Wiley-VCH, 2013).
Although the zeolite degradation model, described in Fig. 34, suggests a continuous process of FCC catalyst particle degradation, various degradation stages were observed throughout the sections of the E-cat samples investigated. The structural diversity within the E-cat catalyst particles was not limited to the presence of different domains as fragments, macroporous and mesoporous zeolites, as well as amorphous material, were formed scattered throughout the thin sections of the catalyst particles. Different stages of catalyst deactivation occurred within close proximity of each other as zeolite degradation can either occur in homogeneous domains within the catalyst particle, or in a more heterogeneous manner, where neighboring zeolite crystals can vary in their exact structure. In other words, the degradation of zeolite Y crystals is a non-synchronous process, which varies in onset and progression from zeolite to zeolite within a single E-cat catalyst particle.
7. Concluding remarks and look into the future
The review presented here indicates that research in FCC catalysts and processes is very much alive, in spite of the fact that this important catalytic process is close to 75 years old. Recent changes in the availability of feedstocks, including renewables and tight oils, and longer-term trends in the demand for propylene, gasoline, and middle distillates require further developments in both catalyst and process. A plethora of new spectroscopic and microscopic tools utilizing ultraviolet-visible and infrared light, hard and soft X-rays, electrons, and, very importantly, combinations of the techniques on the exact same sample spots in integral catalyst particles have recently increased fundamental understanding of the catalyst considerably. Detailed analyses of the pore structure, metal deposition, and zeolite deactivation have been published. Resolution in the analytical techniques applied on integral particles is approaching the nanometer-range, which will allow a more detailed analysis of the interaction between the matrix and the zeolite, and a complete analysis of the pore system in the micro- and mesopore range. In situ characterization techniques will yield fundamental insights in the chemistry and dynamics of the process during individual cracking and regeneration cycles, and will increase our understanding of the deactivation of the catalyst as a function of metal deposition, steaming, and coke-laydown.
It is extremely important to create a clear connection between the macroscopic world of catalyst testing and real-unit performance and the microscopic world. The present microscopic and spectroscopic tools rely on the analysis of a limited number, often not more than a handful, of FCC catalyst particles, whereas the industrial performance takes place at many orders of magnitude larger. This gap needs to be bridged and proper tools will have to be developed to make this possible. These insights will allow us to fine-tune the catalyst performance in the directions required by the large-scale trends in raw material availability and product demands, as summarized in Table 2.Table 2 Challenges in the field of FCC catalysts and related responses Challenge Response Heavier feedstocks (resid conversion) Improve accessibility of the matrix Hierarchical pore design Better stability to poisons Selectivity towards propylene Dedicated process and catalysts Use of new selective zeolites Selectivity towards middle distillates Matrix activity Controlled acidity in zeolite hydrocracking Biomass conversion Resistance to specific poisons (e.g. alkaline metals) and the high acidity of bio-oils Tight oil conversion Resistance to specific poisons and fracking additives Since FCC is one of the largest catalytic processes in the world, any improvement in the process efficiency (e.g. coke make) will be multiplied by extremely large factors. For instance, burning coke from FCC amounts to at least 100 million tons of CO2 per year. Research into FCC catalysts and processes, as well as analytical methods, especially those that investigate real commercial catalysts, preferably under operando conditions, therefore remains highly relevant.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 