element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 13/Issue 3Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
RESEARCH ARTICLEJanuary 17, 2023
Manipulating the Cobalt Species States to Break the Conversion–Selectivity Trade-Off Relationship for Stable Ethane Dehydrogenation over Ligand-Free-Synthesized Co@MFI Catalysts
Yuebing Xu
Wenjin Hu
Yufeng Li
Haixia Su
Weijun Liang
Bing Liu
Jianyi Gong
Zhijian Liu*
Xiaohao Liu*
Open PDF
Supporting Information (1)
Abstract
Nonoxidative dehydrogenation of low-cost alkanes provides a promising route to produce valuable olefins. Herein, we hydrothermally synthesized various non-noble-metal-based, environment-friendly, and Al-free Co@MFI catalysts without the assistance of any additional coordination agents. The Co2+ species were successfully incorporated into well-crystallized MFI to form a stable and atomically dispersed −Coδ+–Oδ−– structure. The Co@MFI catalyst could show a stably high activity for ethane dehydrogenation with equilibrium-approached conversions at 600 °C and at the same time gave an extremely high selectivity to ethylene (∼99%), which is owed to the relatively unreducible −Co–O– species and its appropriate chemical state at the right reaction-temperature window. However, the Co@MFI catalyst showed equilibrium-deviated conversions at lower temperatures (such as 550 °C) and a suppressed activity in the H2O or CO2 co-feeding tests. Then, with characterizations, density functional theory calculations, and abundant experiments over different catalysts, including impregnated Co/MFI and amorphous Co@MFI, this study has impressively demonstrated that the chemical state of Coδ+ species manipulates the conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship in the conversion of alkanes. It is suggested that Co with a lower valence like Co0 promotes both C–C and C–H bond scissions of alkanes into coke and CH4, while Co with a higher one shows a decreased activity or even inactivity for alkane dehydrogenation. In this study, the possible causes for the success in the synthesis of the ligand-unassisted Co@MFI catalyst, the catalyst deactivation modes and the strategies for improving catalyst stability were also demonstrated in detail. This work not only contributes a performance-advanced Co-based catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation but also provides new insights into incorporation of a metal into zeolites.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2023 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Catalysts
Cluster Chemistry
Hydrocarbons
Organic Reactions
Zeolites
Keywords
what are keywords
Ethane Dehydrogenation
Co@MFI
Ligand-Unassisted
Hydrothermal Synthesis
Stable −Co−O− Structure
Chemical State Of CoΔ+
1. Introduction
Light olefins (ethylene and propylene) are important and basic chemicals for the production of bulk commodities, including plastics, solvents, and pesticides. Industrially, they are mainly produced in the oil-based process of fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha. (1,2) Considering the depletion of crude oil, more non-oil-based processes are successfully developed to meet the increasing market demand in olefins, such as methanol-to-olefins, (3−5) syngas-to-olefins, (6−8) and alkanes-to-olefins, including oxidative coupling of methane (9−11) and dehydrogenation or oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane (12−14) and propane. (15−17) In the past decade, the development of shale gas is blooming, and a large amount of low-cost light paraffins, especially ethane and propane, is accompanied in production, which has stimulated researchers and business capital paying more attention on their conversion into high-valued olefins. (18−23) Although oxidation dehydrogenation of alkanes is not limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, overoxidation and side reactions for the production of unexpected and environmentally hazardous CO2 are still the considerations. (24−26) In comparison, nonoxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes can produce olefins of a very high selectivity at acceptable conversions in most cases and therefore is considered to be a more economical and efficient process.
Pt(Sn)-based and Cr-based catalysts are two classic types that have been widely used in the commercial processes. (27−34) Pt is very active for alkane dehydrogenation, but its price is extremely high and its reserves are also limited on the earth. In addition, the sintering of Pt at a high reaction temperature can cause a problem of catalyst deactivation. For these, many researchers are persisting in developing a stable and active catalyst with an ultra-low or/and single-atom Pt (35−37) and exploring effective catalyst synthesis strategies for stabilizing Pt species with Sn, (38−40) for example, Pt1Sn1/SiO2 without excess Sn showing extremely stable activity and high selectivity in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). (41) Because Cr is very harmful to the environment, in spite of its relative cheapness Cr-based catalysts are being phased out in the industry. Therefore, a large amount of non-noble-metal-based and environment-friendly catalyst systems for nonoxidative dehydrogenation were variously investigated, mainly including the first-row 3d (like V (42,43) and Zn (44−46)) and group IIIA (like B, (26,47) Al, (48,49) Ga, (50,51) and In (52,53)) metal-oxide-based catalysts.
The group VIII (Fe, Co, Ni) metals are generally active for decomposition of alkanes. (54−56) However, we previously used the ion-exchange method to prepare metal-exchanged HZSM-5 zeolite successfully with an unreducible −Mδ+–Oδ−– structure for methane dehydroaromatization (MDA). (57−59) It is confirmed for the first time (especially for Co and Ni) that the isolated Mδ+ species at the exchangeable sites, that is, the Brønsted acid sites (BASs, −Al–O(H)–Si−) in a zeolite, are much active and selective for C–H bond scission without a deep cracking into coke. With the same method, a Co-exchanged SAPO-34 zeolite, a kind of zeolite having a smaller pore size (0.34 nm) than HZSM-5 (0.55 nm), was also prepared and showed an extremely high selectivity to ethylene (∼99%) in ethane dehydrogenation (EDH). (60) In the recent 3 years, Fe (18,61,62) and, especially, Co (19,21,22,63−67) as the active sites have been showing their unique potential for alkane dehydrogenation because they are low-cost and not lost during reaction, different from the Zn-based catalysts. (44−46) However, the conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship in alkane dehydrogenation highly depends on the chemical states of these metals in a catalyst. Once metal oxides are easily reduced into zero-valent metal clusters, alkane decomposition would occupy an advantageous position (high conversion and low selectivity to olefins). (63,68) Therefore, for these group VIII metal-based dehydrogenation catalysts, construction of a stable −Mδ+–Oδ−– structure is very crucial for selectively activating C–H bonds and suppressing C–C bonds. The metal-exchanged zeolite catalysts showed a good resistance to be reduced in H2 (probably because the O atoms connected with M species belong to the zeolite and are hard to be removed by H2) and at the same time gave a high selectivity to olefins and a high turnover frequency (TOF) value. However, they always showed a low one-pass conversion far from the thermodynamic equilibrium values, which is certainly due to a low metal loading in the catalyst. Because of the limitation of the number of exchangeable sites (−Al–(O–Si)n=1,2–O–Al–, Al pairs) in a zeolite, the metal loading has to be limited under the exchange rule. (69,70) In our previous work, therefore, we proposed the remaining challenge of how to upgrade the potential Co-based catalysts that could reach the equilibrium conversion easily in a one-pass reaction. (60) Obviously, a totally different synthesis strategy has to be adopted to gain a higher Co loading in the catalyst. At the same time, the introduced Co species are dispersed atomically with a stable −Co–O– structure that can stand up to reduction with H2 or/and alkanes under reaction conditions.
To achieve the above-mentioned targets, especially the aspect of the reducibility of metal, constructing a catalyst with a strong interaction between metal and support is the general strategy. Obviously, the traditional impregnation method is not suitable for obtaining a catalyst with a high loading because reducible metal oxide clusters are unavoidably formed. (54) In some cases, formation of a metal spinel with a support like SiO2 and Al2O3 (19,71) or post-treatment of a metal-support catalyst with water (19) could be feasible to enhance the interaction between Co and the support. Recently, in situ incorporation of metal ions or oxides into the matrix or framework of a support, especially the zeolite, has been a popular and effective strategy used in various reactions, (18,21,22,45,72,73) including the field of alkane dehydrogenation. (18,21,22,45) The incorporation is generally completed in a one-pot (hydrothermal) synthesis process where metal and support precursors as well as the other materials are placed together in an autoclave. Although the metal loading in a catalyst seems to be relatively independent and tunable as in using this method, the success in the incorporation of a metal into the framework of a support highly depends on the usage of a suitable coordination agent that coordinates with metal ions to avoid its precipitation or hydrolysis in a solution. (18,21,22) For example, Yang et al. recently synthesized an Fe-incorporated silicate-1 catalyst using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) as the coordination agent, showing an excellent catalytic performance for EDH. (18) With EDTA, they also synthesized Ni- and Cu-incorporated catalysts, but the Co-based one alone was not involved, probably suggesting an inadequacy of EDTA for Co2+ ions (confirmed by this study). Alternatively, with ammonium hydroxide (NH3·H2O) as a coordination agent, various Co@Silicate-1, (21,22) Co@MCM-41, (63) and Co@SiO2 (64) were also synthesized for EDH or PDH. However, reducible CoOx were still generated at a high Co loading (>3 wt %) in such an ammonia solution, which could promote alkane decomposition over these reduced Co0 clusters and inevitable catalyst deactivation. The Al-free zeolites like silicate-1 that has an MFI structure similar to the HZSM-5 indeed show some merits in catalyst stability as compared with the Al-contained zeolites like HZSM-5 and SAPO-34. This is because little strong acid sites, that is, Brønsted acid sites, exist in the pure-silica material, and then the polycondensation of olefins into higher hydrocarbons or/and coke can be suppressed. (18,21) However, due to a lack of Al pairs in the zeolites for exchanging Co2+, the introduction of more Co2+ species into the pure-silica zeolite and creation of strong interaction between them can be realized mainly in an in situ synthesis where Co is expected to be incorporated. At present, however, choice of a suitable coordination agent for incorporation of Co2+ ions into an expected Co@zeolite material seems to be still a pending issue.
Surprisingly and interestingly, in the study, we observed that the coordination agent was not indispensable in the formula of synthesis of Co@MFI catalyst. The ligand-free Co@MFI was synthesized successfully in a relatively wide range of Co content with the expected goals, that is, a high degree of crystallinity and a strong reduction-resistance for Co species. Moreover, the as-synthesized Co@MFI could selectively (∼99%) and stably catalyze EDH with an ethane conversion very close to the equilibrium one under serious reaction conditions. Herein, various characterizations and systematical EDH (PDH) activity evaluations were performed to better understand the conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship for the Co@MFI catalysts. This study also gives us a new insight into constructing ligand-free metal@zeolite catalysts with a better catalytic performance for alkane dehydrogenation and other reactions.
2. Experimental Section
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
MFI-type silicate-1 zeolite was synthesized hydrothermally. In detail, 6.93 g of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS), 10.56 g of tetra-propyl-ammonium hydroxide (TPAOH, 25 wt %), and 15.84 g of water were added together and stirred at 30 °C for 8 h. Then, the mixture was transferred into an autoclave which was placed in a drying oven at 180 °C for 4 days. Subsequently, the resulted material was filtrated under vacuum, washed by deionized water and absolute ethyl alcohol slowly and repeatedly until the pH of the filtrate approached 7, and then dried at 100 °C for 12 h and calcined at 550 °C for 4 h.
Co@MFI catalysts were prepared using hydrothermal synthesis with three formulas: (1) TEOS, TPAOH, H2O, and Co(NO3)2, (2) EDTA (ethylene diamine tetra-acetic acid), TEOS, TPAOH, H2O, and Co(NO3)2, and (3) DDA (dodecylamine), TEOS, TPAOH, H2O, and Co(NO3)2. Similar to the above-mentioned MFI synthesis process, the mixture of each formula was also stirred and reacted in an autoclave at 180 °C for 4 days, and then filtrated, washed, dried, and calcined. According to the formulas, the synthesized catalysts were labeled as Co@MFI, Co@MFI-EDTA, and Co@MFI-DDA, respectively. In comparison to the Co@MFI catalyst, Fe@MFI, Ni@MFI, and P-modified CoP@MFI catalysts were also prepared. For comparison, a kind of cobalt silicate (Co2SiO4) was also hydrothermally synthesized without TPAOH, according to a published work. (74)
1, 3, and 6 wt % Co/MFI catalysts were prepared by the incipient-wetness impregnation method. The as-synthesized MFI material was added into a certain amount of Co(NO3)2 aqueous solution and then placed for 1 h with intermittent stirring. The resulted sample was evaporated in vacuum at 80 °C for 2 h to remove water, followed by drying at 100 °C for 12 h and further calcination at 550 °C for 4 h. In addition, a 1 wt % Co/SiO2 (Q10, with an average pore diameter of 10 nm) catalyst was also prepared by the impregnation method. The Co content in the catalyst was analyzed by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES). Before testing their catalytic performance, all calcined samples were pressed, crushed, and sieved to collect the sample of the size range of 250−425 μm for use.
2.2. Catalyst Characterizations
X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the catalyst sample was collected on a D2 Phaser (Bruker) instrument using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 0.1540598 nm) at 40 kV and 40 mA in a 2θ range of 5–90° at a scanning rate of 1.2°/min. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation was performed on a field-emission scanning electron microscope (Hitachi S-4800) at an accelerating voltage of 2 kV and room temperature. The high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images of selected catalysts were obtained on a FEI Talos F200X with a Super-X EDS. The surface area and microporosity of the samples were measured by nitrogen adsorption at −195 °C with a Micromeritics ASAP 2020 system. Prior to the measurement, the sample was vacuum-degassed at 400 °C for 4 h. Coke content in a spent catalyst was measured on a thermogravimeter analyzer (Mettler-Toledo TGA-1100SF) by estimating the weight loss between 350 and 700 °C in a TG profile.
Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra of fresh catalyst samples were recorded on a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrometer produced by Thermo Fisher Scientific Corporation. UV–vis DR spectra of dried samples were recorded on a UV–vis spectrophotometer (Hitachi UV-3000 plus, Japan) having a diffuse reflectance (DR) attachment of an integration sphere. The reflectance of BaSO4 was used as a reference for the baseline of various samples. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of fresh and spent catalyst samples were obtained on a Thermo Fisher instrument (ESCALAB 250Xi) with an exciting source of Al Kα (1486.6 eV) at 15 kV and 10 mA in the CAE analyzer mode under vacuum (about 5 × 10–10 mbar). Raman spectra of selected spent samples were obtained over a confocal Raman system (Renishaw inVia Raman microscope) using a 532 nm excitation.
X-ray absorption spectra (XAS), including X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), of fresh 6 and 15 wt % Co@MFI samples at the Co K-edge (7709 eV) were collected at the Japan Synchrotron Light Source center. Co K-edge XANES data were obtained in a transmission mode. Co foil, CoO, and Co3O4 were used as references. The obtained EXAFS data were extracted and processed with the standard procedures using the FEFIT software packages implemented within the ATHENA module. The k3-weighted Fourier transform (FT) of x(k) in R space was achieved over a range of 0–14.0 Å–1 by applying a Besse window function.
NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, O2-TPO, and C2H6-pulse experiments were operated on an automatic chemical adsorption instrument (BelCAT-II, Japan) equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and mass detectors. For obtaining an NH3-TPD profile, 0.100 g of a dried sample was charged into a quartz tube and pretreated in an Ar stream at 500 °C for 60 min. Then, the sample was cooled down to 100 °C for saturated adsorption of NH3. After that, the sample was kept at that temperature in a He stream for removal of the physically adsorbed NH3 molecules and obtaining a TCD baseline, and then heated to 800 °C at a rate of 10 °C/min to record the TCD signal. For H2-TPR, an Ar-pretreated sample at 500 °C was reduced in a 10%H2/Ar stream starting from 50 to 800 °C at a heating rate of 10 °C/min. For O2-TPO, a dried spent sample was heated in a 10%O2/He stream from 50 to 800 °C at a heating rate of 10 °C/min, and the signals of m/z = 18 (H2O), m/z = 28 (CO), m/z = 32 (O2), and m/z = 44 (CO2) were recorded. For C2H6-pulse, after the sample was heated in an Ar stream to 600 °C and kept there for 10 min, 1 mL of 90%C2H6/10%Ar was periodically charged into the Ar carrier, and the signals of m/z = 2 (H2), m/z = 16 (CH4), m/z = 30 (C2H6), m/z = 44 (CO2), and so forth were monitored by a mass detector.
2.3. Catalyst Activity Evaluation
Catalyst activity evaluation for alkane dehydrogenation, including ethane and propane, was performed in a U-shaped quartz fixed-bed reactor with an inner diameter of 8 mm. In each test, 0.3 g of dried catalyst sample was charged into the reactor and heated in an Ar stream of 20 mL/min to a predetermined reaction temperature at a heating rate of 10 °C/min. After 15 min for stabilizing temperature, a feed stream, for example, 90%C2H6/10%N2, was switched to flow into the reactor for starting of the reaction. The first sampling of the effluent out of the reactor was carried out after 10 min of reaction, and its on-line analysis was performed on one gas chromatography (Agilent GC-7820A) equipped with a TCD and a flame ionization detector (FID). Separation of N2, H2, and CH4 was completed with an MS 5A packed column and that of all hydrocarbons used an RT-silica Bond capillary column. N2 in the feed was used as an internal standard substance for the calculation of conversion (X) according to eqs 1 and 2. The selectivity (Si) to each product i was obtained based on eq 3. After the reaction, the spent catalyst was cooled in an Ar stream to room temperature sufficiently and then collected for subsequent characterizations.
Fout=
Fin×x
in
N2
x
out
N2
(1)
X=
Fin×x
in
CnH2n+2
−Fout×x
out
CnH2n+2
Fin×x
in
CnH2n+2
×100%=(1−
A
out
CnH2n+2
A
in
N2
A
in
CnH2n+2
A
out
N2
)×100%
(2)
Si=
0.0224×fi×
Ai
n0
×ni×
Fout
Vloop
×
Tloop
T0
Fin×x
in
CnH2n+2
×X
×100%
(3)
where Fin and Fout are the flow rates of feed and effluent (mL/min), respectively; A is the GC area of a peak; fi (μmol/GC area) is a calibration factor of hydrocarbon i; ni is a carbon number in product i; n0 is the carbon number in the feed (n0 = 2 for ethane and 3 for propane); Vloop (mL) is the volume of the sampling loop; and Tloop (K) and T0 (K) are the loop temperature and room temperature, respectively.
2.4. DFT Calculations
The Vienna ab initio simulation package was used to perform all spin-polarized density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Because of the pore structure of the MFI zeolite which might not be ignorable in the calculations, van der Waals interactions were considered using the D3 correction method. Core–valence interactions were calculated by the projector-augmented wave method, and a plane wave basis was used to describe valence electrons with an energy cutoff of 400 eV. Electronic exchange and correlation were modeled by the generalized gradient approximation with the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof functional. The Gaussian smearing method was used to perform electron smearing with a smearing width consistent to 0.05 eV. In geometry optimization calculations, the conjugate gradient algorithm was used. Structures were optimized by minimizing the forces on each ion as they are less than 0.03 eV/Å.
3. Results and Discussion
3.1. Characterizations of the Ligand-Free-Synthesized Co@MFI Catalysts
The Co contents in Co@MFI catalysts were close to the nominal ones (Table S1). The 1–10 wt % Co@MFI showed typical MFI-structure XRD peaks without those of any Co species (Figure 1a), while Co3O4 was detected in the impregnated Co/MFI samples (Figure S1a). The XRD peaks for MFI were weakened with increasing Co content and almost disappeared at the Co contents higher than 15 wt %. As observed by SEM (Figure 1b), MFI and Co@MFI samples with a Co content below 10 wt % were highly crystallized with a shape of hexagonal prisms (∼250 nm), while the 15 wt % Co@MFI was amorphous. Correspondingly, their Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface areas and pore volumes decreased with increasing the Co content (Table S1). However, the 1–6 wt % Co@MFI maintained the majority (>95%) of porosity of MFI (401.1 m2/g and 0.15 cm3/g). The main phase of 15–20 wt % Co@MFI was confirmed to be amorphous SiO2 or/and cobalt silicates (Figure S1b). (75−78)
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) XRD patterns, (b) SEM observations, (c) H2-TPR profiles, and (d) UV–vis spectra of fresh MFI zeolite, hydrothermally synthesized Co@MFI, and impregnated Co/MFI samples.
Due to no Al atoms in the formula, the synthesized MFI zeolite and 1–10 wt % Co@MFI catalysts had no acidity as compared with the referenced HZSM-5 (Si/Al = 12.5) (Figure S2). The non-acidic MFI can suppress the formation of aromatics and coke from the products of olefins. (79) Different from Co-impregnated Co/MFI catalysts, Co was possibly incorporated into the MFI framework or partly reacted with amorphous SiO2 (in the case of high Co content) to form cobalt silicates in the synthesis of Co@MFI, which could be recognized by the formation of the band at about 1016 cm–1 (−Co–O–Si−) (80) in their FT-IR spectra (Figure S3). The weakening of the bands at 1075 and 1226 cm–1 (−Si–O–Si–, νas) (81,82) for the 15 and 20 wt % Co@MFI, respectively, further demonstrated the destructive MFI structure, in line with their results from XRD and SEM (Figure 1a,b).
The chemical state of Co species in Co@MFI is very different from that in the impregnated Co/MFI. As shown in Figure 1c, the Co species in Co/MFI (dashed lines) were completely reduced (Co3O4 → CoO → Co0) by H2 below 450 °C, similar to the reduction process of a synthesized Co3O4 compound (Figure S4) and suggesting that CoOx clusters were mainly present in Co/MFI. However, Co@MFI consumed little H2 in the temperature range of 100–600 °C. It is highly suggested that Co species in Co@MFI have a strong interaction with the MFI zeolite and can withstand the reduction by H2 at a much higher temperature, indicating little free CoOx in the Co@MFI samples. Providing that cobalt silicate was formed in the 15 wt % Co@MFI sample, the reduction of such Co species was more difficult because the reduction peak was largely shifted from 740 °C (1–10 wt % Co@MFI) to 785 °C. Suppression in the reduction of Co species into zero-valent Co0 (clusters) at high temperatures is important for alkane dehydrogenation. Co0 species can promote both C–C and C–H bond scissions, resulting in coke or/and CH4 as the main products. (54,85) In comparison, keeping Co species in the form of −Coδ+–Oδ−– would suppress the C–C bond scission, which is beneficial to a high selectivity to olefins close to 100%.
As also confirmed by UV–vis DR spectra (Figure 1d), an obvious band between 12,500 and 16,500 cm–1 was observed for Co/MFI samples; this band can be ascribed to a d–d transition band of surface Co3+/Co2+ species, a strong evidence for the existence of Co oxide clusters. (83) In comparison, it could be deduced that the CoOx clusters were indeed tiny in the Co@MFI samples. The band between 16,500 and 25,000 cm–1 that can be ascribed to bare Co(II) species (84) was gradually enhanced with increasing the Co content in Co@MFI, but their intensities were very low even compared with the 1 wt % Co/MFI. This may be due to the fact that Co was embedded into the MFI framework to form a −Co–O–Si– structure, inhibiting its charge transition. (80)
Furthermore, HAADF-STEM observation and their corresponding element maps (Figure 2a) demonstrated that Co atoms were atomically dispersed in the hydrothermally synthesized 1–6 wt % Co@MFI, while CoOx clusters existed in the impregnated catalyst. Especially, in a bright-field mode, the impregnated Co/MFI showed a more transparent body of the MFI zeolite than the Co@MFI samples, again confirming that it was difficult for Co species to enter into the channels of the Al-free MFI in the impregnation process but were uniformly distributed in the whole of MFI crystals via hydrothermal synthesis.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) HAADF-STEM observation and their corresponding element maps of 1, 6, and 15 wt % Co@MFI and 6 wt % Co/MFI catalysts; (b) Co 2p XPS spectra of Co/MFI, Co@MFI, and Co2SiO4; and (c) O 1s XPS spectra of Co@MFI, bulk Co3O4, and synthesized Co2SiO4.
This uniform distribution of Co species led to Co@MFI showing a higher XPS peak intensity than Co/MFI at the same Co contents (Figure 2b). The peak at 781.8 eV with its satellite at about 787.7 eV suggests that divalent Co(II) species existed in Co@MFI. (86,87) However, the binding energy (BE) of the peak was relatively high, which was much similar to but slightly lower than that (782.3 eV) in a synthesized cobalt silicate (the purple line in Figure 2b). (64,74) The peak at 780.0 eV showed the main presence of trivalent Co(III) species in Co/MFI same as that for bulk Co3O4 (Figure S5a). (21,88) By comparison, Co@MFI contained little trivalent Co(III) species or CoOx clusters. With these observations, it can be deduced that Co(II) in Co@MFI also had a good resistance to oxidation in a catalyst’s calcination period (550 °C) probably due to the incorporation of Co in the MFI framework with a −Si–O–Co(II)–O–Si– structure. For the 15 wt % Co@MFI, its Co 2p XPS spectrum was completely identical to that of the synthesized Co2SiO4, highly suggesting that the catalyst had the same compound.
For O 1s XPS spectra (Figure 2c), the peak at 533.2 eV can be attributed to O atom in the −Si–O–Si– structure, while the peak at 529.9 eV is related to that of lattice oxygen in bulk Co3O4. (89) With the introduction of Co2+ in Co@MFI, the band (533.2 eV) was shifted to a lower BE to some extent, which should be caused by the formation of −Co–O–Si–. With an enlargement of the BE range to 528–532 eV (Figure S5b), it can be exactly confirmed that CoOx clusters are indeed present in the impregnated Co/MFI but little in the Co@MFI catalysts, which is in good agreement with the results from XRD, H2-TPR, UV–vis, and STEM characterizations.
Especially because the fresh 6 and 15 wt % Co@MFI catalysts showed totally different catalytic behaviors (see the next section), their Co chemical states and coordination environments were investigated by XAS, including XANES and EXAFS. As shown in Figure 3, the obtained XANES and EXAFS spectra of the two Co@MFI samples are much similar, suggesting that they also had a similar Co chemical state and coordination environment in spite of their very different crystal structures and morphologies (Figure 1). In comparison with the reference samples, including Co foil, CoO, and Co3O4, divalent Co(II) species were recognized in the Co@MFI samples, in line with the results from XPS characterization (Figure 2b) because the Co K-edge XANES energy spectra of the two Co@MFI catalysts were much similar with that of CoO and between those of Co3O4 and Co foil. The peak at about 7724 eV with a high intensity can indicate the covalent character of Co (3d)–O (2p) in Co@MFI. (21,22,66) A small pre-edge peak below 7710 eV could be an additional signal for the chemical state of Co(II) species in the Co@MFI samples, which is assigned to the low-spin excitation of Co from 1s orbital to 3d orbital. (21,22)
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Co K-edge XANES energy spectra and (b) corresponding FT k3-weighted EXAFS spectra of Co foil, CoO, and Co3O4 and 6 and 15 wt % Co@MFI samples; (c,d) wavelet transform plots of 6 wt % Co@MFI and 15 wt % Co@MFI catalysts.
It can be seen that the Co K-edge EXAFS spectra of the two Co@MFI samples (Figure 3b) are obviously different from those of Co foil and Co3O4 and show some discrepancy with that of CoO. The observed band at about 1.6 Å is attributed to the first shell scattering of O atoms, (63,67,90) while the band at about 2.75 Å can be due to the second shell scattering of Si atoms. (22) After comparison, the shell scattering of Co atoms (Co–Co or/and Co–O–Co) in the first and second shell could be excluded. Thus, the Co species should be atomically dispersed in the Co@MFI samples with an existence of the Co–O–Si structure. For the two Co@MFI samples, a shoulder at about 7717 eV in their XANES spectra (Figure 3a) could be further identified to be tetrahedrally coordinated Co(II) species. (67,90) From the EXAFS fitting (Figure S6) and quantitative structure parameters (Table S2), the Co species in the two samples might both bond with about four O atoms with an average bond length of about 2.0 Å, also suggesting a tetrahedral coordination geometry for the Co(II) species. (22)
3.2. Dehydrogenation Activity of the Ligand-Free-Synthesized Co@MFI Catalyst
As shown in Figure 4, the hydrothermally synthesized ligand-free Co@MFI catalysts exhibited extremely high activity, selectivity, and stability for EDH, where ethane conversion could approach the equilibrium conversion level of 16.2% at 0.1 MPa, 600 °C, and ethane content of 90% and the selectivity to ethylene reached 99% during the 5 h tests. In comparison, the impregnated 3–6 wt % Co/MFI and 1 wt % Co/SiO2 catalysts were only active for ethane cracking, leading to CH4 and coke as products without any olefins. As Co@MFI kept the MFI structure (Figure 1a,b), the EDH activity increased with increasing Co content and was maximized at 3–6 wt % Co. However, the 15 and 20 wt % Co@MFI catalysts were almost inactive for EDH, which can be apparently ascribed to their non-MFI structure. For the 1 wt % Co/MFI, interestingly, although the Co species in it was easily reduced similar to those in the 3–6 wt % Co/MFI, the catalyst did not show serious ethane cracking; in contrast, it still functioned for EDH despite showing a lower activity than the 1 wt % Co@MFI at the same space velocity (6000 mL/g/h, Figure 4).
Figure 4
Figure 4. EDH activity over hydrothermally synthesized 1–15 wt % Co@MFI, Co-impregnated 1–6 wt % Co/MFI, and 1 wt % Co/SiO2 at 600 °C, 0.1 MPa, 3000–6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%. (a,b) Time-on-stream ethane conversion profiles, (c) bar graph of average ethane conversions, and (d) bar graph of average selectivity in each test.
Based on the above-mentioned activity evaluation of Co@MFI and Co/MFI catalysts, the Co species showed a conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship with three catalytic behaviors at least for EDH, including (1) complete inertness for ethane conversion, (2) selective activation of C–H bond and suppression in C–C bond scission, and (3) indiscriminate activation of both C–H and C–C bonds. It seems that these behaviors not only depend on the reducibility of Co species but also are related with their location and coordination environment in a catalyst.
We also tested the superior 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst for PDH under the conditions of 500–600 °C, 0.1 MPa, 20%C3H8/80%N2, and 3000 mL/g/h (Figure 5). At 600 °C, the catalyst showed an initially high propane conversion (60%) and a high selectivity to propylene (>95%); however, it deactivated rapidly after 40 min of PDH reaction and lost half of the activity after 5 h. With feeding additional H2 into the 20%C3H8/80%N2 stream (C3H8/H2 = 1:1), a regular strategy for PDH, (41) the catalyst stability was obviously improved although the propane conversion was suppressed to 48% due to the thermodynamic equilibrium (C3H8 = C3H6 + H2). This suggests that coking at such a high temperature is still the major cause for the catalyst deactivation. As the temperature was lowered to 550 °C without co-feeding H2, the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst showed a stable PDH activity during a 150 h test (Figure 5c), maintaining propane conversion at 16% and the selectivity to propylene at 96%.
Figure 5
Figure 5. PDH activity over the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst. (a) Time-on-stream propane conversion profiles at 500–600 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2 with and without H2 addition; (b) selectivity to various products at different temperatures; and (c) catalyst stability over 150 h at 550 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2 without H2 addition.
Furthermore, the catalytic performance of Co@MFI catalysts for EDH was investigated at various reaction conditions, including reaction temperature (550–650 °C), space velocity (3000–20,000 mL/g/h), and ethane content (5–90%). The obtained results are all summarized in Figures S7 and S8. Over the Co@MFI catalysts, the TOF values of Co active sites (s–1, the mole of converted ethane to ethylene per mole of Co atoms per second) were calculated to be in a range of 0.01–0.10 s–1 at 600 °C.
(i) Reaction temperature. For the 6 wt % Co@MFI tested at 6000 mL/g/h and ethane content of 90%, as reaction temperature was raised from 550 up to 650 °C, the ethane conversion was increased as expected from 7.0% to about 28.1% (Figure S7a), which are close to the equilibrium values (Figure S7b). However, similar to PDH at 600 °C (Figure 5a), the catalyst for EDH also showed a rapid deactivation at 650 °C, leading to a decline in ethane conversion below 14% after 5 h of reaction. Higher reaction temperature would certainly promote both C–H and C–C bond scissions thermodynamically. Thus, coke was formed to cover Co active sites and to block the MFI zeolite’s channels. In addition to the thermal cracking of ethane, catalytic cracking of ethane should be also considered if the Co species were gradually reduced and sintered into Co0 clusters at the higher temperature, which will be discussed in the section on catalyst deactivation.
(ii) Space velocity. Fixing the reaction temperature at 600 °C, increasing space velocity, as expected, decreased ethane conversion to deviate from the equilibrium (Figure S8) for each Co@MFI catalyst at both 20 and 90% of ethane content. Over the 3 wt % Co@MFI catalyst, for example, the ethane conversion was 11% at 20,000 mL/g/h (90% of C2H6), occupying 68% of the equilibrium conversion (16.5%) under the same condition. However, increasing the Co content in Co@MFI did not further drive the conversion of ethane (Figure S8a,b) but was just beneficial to the improvement of catalyst stability to some extent (Figure S8a). This actually suggests that part of Co species in the Co@MFI catalyst, especially in those with a Co content higher than 3 wt %, did not work or was completely inert at 600 °C same as those in the 15–20 wt % Co@MFI catalysts (Figure 4).
(iii) Ethane content. Lowering the ethane content can increase the ethane equilibrium conversion thermodynamically. For the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst tested at 600 °C and 6000 mL/g/h, the ethane conversions were 25.8 and 16.2% at ethane contents of 20 and 90%, respectively (Figure S8). However, it is interestingly observed that with decreasing the ethane content, the ethane conversion deviated from the equilibrium value at the same space velocity. For example, at 6000 mL/g/h (600 °C), the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst could reach the equilibrium conversion at 90% of ethane but could not at 20% of ethane content (Figure S8d). At the ethane contents of 20 and 5%, the ethane conversions close to the equilibrium ones (31.2 and 61.0%) were only realized at 3000 mL/g/h and lower, respectively. This fact may suggest that the catalyst was suffering a diffusion restriction in the MFI zeolite channels (∼0.55 nm) for ethane molecules. (69)
Surprisingly, the deviation in ethane conversion from the equilibrium one was enlarged at lowering reaction temperature. As shown in Figure 6, at 550 °C and ethane content of 20%, the ethane conversion over the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst was only 4.5%, showing a high degree of deviation from the equilibrium conversion that should be 18.7%. In comparison, at 575 and 600 °C, the 6 wt % Co@MFI showed the maximum ethane conversions of 19.5 and 29.7%, respectively, occupying 80.6 and 95.5% of their respective equilibrium values (24.4% at 575 °C and 31.1% at 600 °C). This feature suggests that there is an activation temperature for Co@MFI and only over that temperature the Co species can fully work for EDH. This should be the same reason for the catalyst showing a high activity for PDH at 600 °C but giving a much lower one at 550 °C (Figure 5).
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Time-dependent ethane conversion and (b) average conversion in bar over 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst at 3000 mL/g/h, ethane content of 20%, and various reaction temperatures (550–600 °C).
3.3. Discussion
3.3.1. Factors for the Successful Preparation of the Co@MFI Catalyst
It is widely accepted that incorporation of metal atoms into a zeolite framework needs addition of a coordination agent into the formula for avoiding the aggregation of the metal in a basic solution. (18,91,92) For example, Yang et al. successfully prepared an Fe-incorporated silicate-1 using EDTA as the coordination agent to preferentially form [Fe(EDTA)]− ions rather than Fe(OH)3 precipitate, and the resulted catalyst exhibited a good performance for EDH. (18) However, for Co2+ in this study, the EDTA additive was totally ineffective as we observed that Co was hardly incorporated into MFI but remained in solution, although the sample had a clear MFI structure (XRD, Figure S9a). Undoubtedly, these samples showed no activity for EDH (Figure 7) due to the extremely low Co content (0.04–0.06 wt %, Table S1). This was a probable reason for the case of Co-incorporated silicate-1 not being reported but only the cases of Cu, Fe, and Ni. (18,92) As we used DDA instead of EDTA, interestingly, the DDA-synthesized Co@MFI-DDA were much active and selective (∼99%, Figure S9c,d) for EDH, and the activity increased with increasing Co content (Figures 7 and S9c).
Figure 7
Figure 7. Average ethane conversion in a 5 h test over various hydrothermally synthesized catalysts for EDH at 600 °C, 0.1 MPa, 6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%.
As we further tried to remove the DDA from the formula for the investigation of the “positive” effect of DDA, it is surprisingly observed that the ligand-free Co@MFI showed a higher activity and stability (Figures 4 and 7) at comparable Co contents. This means that the ligand is not indispensable for successful synthesis of the Co@MFI sample. Without using any ligand, we also tried to synthesize Fe@MFI and Ni@MFI catalysts. The 3 wt % Ni@MFI (the actual Ni content is 3.5 wt %) possessed the MFI structure, while the 6 wt % Fe@MFI (the actual Fe content is 6.1 wt %) showed an amorphous SiO2 structure (Figure S9a). However, they were all almost inactive for EDH (Figure 7). For the DDA-synthesized Co@MFI catalysts, the actual Co contents were confirmed to be similar with the nominal ones (Table S1), and they still have the MFI structure (XRD, Figure S9a) and also showed a difficulty in reduction of Co species (H2-TPR, Figure S9b) similar to the ligand-free 1–10 wt % Co@MFI catalysts (Figure 1c).
Thus, we wonder the possible reasons for the success in the synthesis of Co@MFI catalyst without a coordination agent. In general, the solution of the formula for synthesis of MFI is highly basic with a pH value > 13 due to the basic template of TPAOH ([(C3H7)4N]OH), in which most metal ions like Fe3+ and Al3+ should be transformed into hydroxide precipitations. Fe3+ ions are easy to be hydrolyzed to form Fe(OH)3 in a low pH value range of 1.2–2.8 at room temperature (Figure S10), while the hydrolysis of Co2+ ions occurs at pH value of 6.9–9.4, suggesting that Co2+ is more tolerable with the solution’s basicity than Fe3+. However, it has to be recognized that the pH value of the practical solution (pH > 13) is greatly out of the pH range for hydrolysis of Co2+ (Figure S10). It should be noted that Al3+ ions are also easy to be hydrolyzed into Al(OH)3 at pH values of 3–5 (Figure S10), but they can be smoothly incorporated into the framework of an Al-containing HZSM-5 zeolite. (93) This is because at such high pH (pH > 13), more OH– ions can be coordinated with Al3+ atoms to form [Al(OH)4]− ions or AlO4 tetrahedron units for zeolite synthesis under the TPAOH template. Therefore, it can be deduced by analogy that in the strong base solution Co2+ ions can also coordinate with OH–, be well dispersed in the solution, and then be involved in the MFI synthesis. As shown in Figure S11a, the color of the Co(NO3)2 aqueous solution was changed from pink ([Co(H2O)6]2+) to blue ([Co(H2O)x(OH)y]2–y] by addition of a certain amount of NaOH, which has a similar state with the solution for the synthesis of Co@MFI (Figure S11b).
As the amount of TPAOH was reduced in half or removed completely for adjusting the pH value of the solution, the MFI structure of the synthesized Co@MFI was degraded and even disappeared (XRD, Figure S12a) and the resulted catalysts showed an extremely low activity for EDH (Figure S12b). It is confirmed by ICP–AES (Table S1) that Co species were not lost in the synthesis of the TPAOH-reduced and TPAOH-free 6 wt % Co@MFI samples. Therefore, it seems that formation of the MFI structure is very important for the hydrothermally synthesized Co-based catalyst to have a high dehydrogenation activity. As the zeolite framework was not formed, Co species probably tends to react with a Si source to form amorphous cobalt silicates, similar to that in 15–20 wt % Co@MFI catalysts. Using NaOH instead of TPAOH (Figure S11a), leading to a typical formula for the synthesis of cobalt silicate, (76) the as-synthesized Co-based sample with about 6.1 wt % Co was totally inactive for EDH (ethane conversion < 1%) due to its amorphous state (Figure S13). On the other hand, Co2+ ions could be precipitated at a high Co content (>10 wt %, Figure S11b,c) because its content surpassed the amount of OH– ions generated by TPAOH. Thus, the changed synthesis environment would not be beneficial to the formation of MFI framework but lead to the formation of SiO2 or/and cobalt silicates only.
3.3.2. Conversion–Selectivity Trade-Off Relationship of Co Species States for the Activation of C–H and C–C Bonds in Ethane
It can be clearly summarized that Co species have shown versatile catalytic behaviors for EDH depending on their chemical states, including (1) CoOx clusters on the external surface and those possibly in the micro-channels of MFI crystals, (2) well-dispersed Co atoms spreading over the whole crystals with −Co–O–Si– bonds, and (3) the amorphous cobalt silicates. The CoOx clusters are mainly formed in a Co-impregnated Co/MFI catalyst and easily reduced into metallic Co0 clusters that only facilitate alkane decomposition. As Co species are atomically dispersed and have a strong interaction with MFI framework using one-pot hydrothermal synthesis method, they can strongly resist reduction by H2 and then suppress the C–C bond scission to avoid the formation of coke and CH4 but only activate C–H bond to produce olefins with a high selectivity.
The conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship of Co species states can be further evidenced by C2H6-pulse experiments at 600 °C. As shown in Figure 8, it can be seen that CO2 (m/z = 44) was primarily produced with little H2 (m/z = 2) release in the beginning 1–3 pulses over the 6 wt % Co/MFI catalyst, which is ascribed to the reduction process of CoOx + C2H6 → Co + COx (CO2 and CO) +H2O. CO should be also generated but was not easy to differentiate from C2H4 and C2H6 due to their overlapped mass signal of m/z = 28 (Figure S14). This reduction process could be completed only in the first pulse as the Co content decreased. After the process, the formed Co0 clusters greatly promoted ethane decomposition into CH4 (m/z = 16), H2, and coke (see the fourth and fifth pulse for the 6%Co/MFI and the first and second pulse for the 3%Co/MFI) via both C–C and C–H bond cleavages. However, the coke deposition on the surface of the reduced Co0 species caused a rapid deactivation of the Co/MFI catalyst, leading to an obvious decrease in the ethane consumption in the following pulses. For the 3–15 wt % Co@MFI catalysts, in comparison, CO2 and CH4 were not detected in all pulses, suggesting that the Co species in these samples are indeed difficult to be reduced and to cleave the C–C bond in ethane molecules, respectively. At the same time, the amorphous 15 wt % Co@MFI showed extremely lower H2 production than the 3 and 6 wt % Co@MFI catalysts and only close to the pure MFI zeolite (Figure 8a), again confirming its low activity (Figure 4).
Figure 8
Figure 8. C2H6-pulse experiments over various Co-based catalysts at 600 °C. A 0.10 g portion of the catalyst was heated in an Ar stream (30 mL/min) to 600 °C and kept there for 30 min to obtain a baseline for each mass signal; then, 1 mL of pure C2H6 was pulsed into the Ar stream with a fixed period. (a) H2 (m/z = 2). (b) CH4 (m/z = 16). (c) C2H6 (m/z = 30). (d) CO2 (m/z = 44).
However, a question raised here is why did the amorphous 15–20 wt % Co@MFI show a much lower activity for EDH at 600 °C (Figure 4) in spite of their high Co contents (Table S1). Other than the visualized differences in their crystal structure (XRD, Figure 1a) and morphology (SEM, Figure 1b), the more difficult reduction of their Co species may be the primary cause. There was about 45 °C (740 °C → 785 °C) shifting to higher temperature for the amorphous 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst in comparison with the well-crystallized 1–10 wt % Co@MFI catalysts (Figure 1) As an excessive Co content was adopted in the synthesis formula, the compound of cobalt silicate easily tended to be formed (74,75) with a loss in the MFI framework.
For EDH or PDH over the Co-based catalysts, when Co species are easily reduced and sintered into metallic Co0 clusters on the external surface of the MFI zeolite, both C–C and C–H bond cleavages will be dominated, leading to the formations of coke and CH4. (69) Hence, the Co-impregnated Co/MFI catalysts, especially with high Co contents (3–6 wt %), could promote alkane decomposition with a much lower selectivity to olefins (Figure 4) due to the inevitable formation of the reducible cobalt oxide clusters (Figures 1 and 2). However, Chen et al. observed that when tiny CoOx clusters entered zeolite channels using the impregnation method at a low Co content, the Co/ZSM-5 catalyst could suppress alkane decomposition and only promote dehydrogenation. (68) This situation may be the same with the case of the 1 wt % Co/MFI catalyst (Figure 4) that showed a relatively stable dehydrogenation activity without a dramatic decrease to zero, although the reduction behavior of its Co species was the same with those for the 3–6 wt Co/MFI samples (Figure 1c). However, for the 1 wt % Co/SiO2 (Q10, with an average pore diameter of 10 nm), although it had a similar Co content with the 1 wt % Co/MFI sample, full decomposition of ethane occurred without any olefins (Figure 4). The reason can be ascribed to the large pores of SiO2, which in turn confirms that the micropore channels (∼0.55 nm) of the MFI zeolite provide a vital microenvironment for EDH over reduced Co clusters. For the 3 and 6 wt % Co/MFI catalysts, a large amount of coke formed in a very initial reaction period over the excessively reduced Co clusters on the MFI zeolite’s external surface, rapidly blocking the zeolite channels and leaving little chance for the inner Co species to catalyze the EDH.
According to previous characterizations, correspondingly, we modeled three locations for Co species in the MFI zeolite, including Co0 clusters (Co4) on the zeolite’s external surface, Co clusters in the zeolite’s microchannels, (68) and Co atom incorporated in the MFI framework and then compared relative dissociation energies of the first C–H and C–C bonds in C2H6 over these optimized sites by DFT calculation. As shown in Figure 9, the pure MFI zeolite should be almost inactive for EDH due to its extremely high energies for dissociation of C–H (4.40 eV) and C–C (6.17 eV) bonds. In comparison, the relative dissociation energies of C–H and C–C bonds were minus (−0.33 and −0.37 eV, respectively) when Co0 cluster (Co4) was located on the zeolite’s exterior, suggesting a highly possible occurrence of ethane decomposition leading to a high ethane conversion and a high selectivity to CH4 or/and coke. However, as the Co4 cluster was moved into the zeolite’s channel, the relative dissociation energies turned to be positive with values of 0.52 eV for C–H bond scission and 0.67 eV for C–C bond cleavage. This result not only means that ethane decomposition can be largely alleviated but also demonstrated that the catalytic behaviors of Co species indeed depend on their location in the zeolite. As Co(II) atoms were incorporated into the zeolite framework to form tetrahedrally coordinated −Co(II)–O–Si– structure, the calculated relative dissociation energies were largely increased to be 1.35 and 1.95 eV for the C–H and C–C bond scissions, respectively. Obviously, the possibility of the C–H and C–C bond scissions, especially the latter can be greatly reduced over such Co(II) sites, ensuring high selectivity to ethylene without CH4 or coke over the Co@MFI catalyst.
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) DFT calculations on the relative dissociation energies of C–H and C–C bonds in C2H6 over Co4 cluster located on the external surface of MFI zeolite and in the zeolite channel, and Co(II) atom incorporated in the MFI framework; (b,c) electron charge density difference plots of incorporated Co1 in Co@MFI and Co4 clusters inside the MFI channel. The green and yellow colors indicate a decrease and increase in the electron density, respectively. Blue, red, and pink balls represent Si, O, and Co atoms, respectively.
Furthermore, the charge density differences of the three kinds of Co species were analyzed as shown in Figure 9b,c and Table S3. It confirms that the Co clusters located on the external surface of MFI are rich in electrons without obvious electron transfer to MFI zeolite, while those inside the MFI channels could transfer part electrons to the support, indicating an interaction between Co and MFI. Naturally, the Co1 incorporated into MFI shows noteworthy electron transfer from Co atom to the neighboring O atom due to the formation of the −Co(II)–O–Si– structure. Therefore, it can be understood that the zero-valent Co0 clusters could easily transfer their rich electrons to both C–H and C–C bonds of adsorbed alkane molecules and promote these bonds scissions, leading to the formation of CH4 (or lower paraffins) and coke. On the other hand, as the valence state of Co species maintained positive in the reaction, the bond scission would be mitigated.
However, for the well-crystallized 1–10 wt % Co@MFI catalysts, the higher dissociation energies of C–H and C–C bonds at the −Co–O–Si– site actually suggest that a higher reaction temperature may be required for activating the alkane molecule. Thus, at a lower temperature, alkane conversion will be seriously suppressed, deviating from the thermodynamical equilibrium value the same as EDH (Figure 6) and PDH (Figure 5) operated at 550 °C. It seems that the widely adopted temperature of about 600 °C is the right one for the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst fully working on EDH (Figure 4).
Noting that the 15 wt % Co@MFI was more difficult to be reduced (Figure 1c), its low activity for EDH at 600 °C (Figure 4) is probably because it may need a higher temperature for presenting its activity. To confirm this deduction, the 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst was tested for EDH at 650 and 700 °C (Figure S15). Nevertheless, thermal and catalytic cracking of alkanes is enhanced at the elevated temperatures, leading to rapid coke deposition to cover active sites. After 5 h of reaction over the 15 wt % Co@MFI, about 8.0 and 18.9 wt % of coke amount were produced at 650 and 700 °C, respectively, while the amount was 0.11 wt % only at 600 °C. Therefore, EDH as a probing reaction may not be suitable for the 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst. Then, PDH was further carried out, considering that propane is more active than ethane. As shown in Figure 10, the EDH-inactive 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst was more active and selective for PDH. Although unquestionably showing a lower activity than the 6 wt % Co@MFI (Figure 5), the 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst could give initial propane conversions of 13% at 550 °C and of 32% at 600 °C with a selectivity to propylene between 90 and 95%. The coke contents in the spent samples were 0.31 and 2.63 wt %, respectively. This result has well demonstrated that the Co species in the amorphous 15 wt % Co@MFI can selectively activate C–H bond in alkanes, but they just need to work at a higher working temperature or function for high-carbon alkanes like propane and butane. Still, the activity at 550 °C was much lower than that at 600 °C for the 15 wt % Co@MFI, again confirming the existence of the working temperature window for the Co-based catalysts.
Figure 10
Figure 10. (a) Propane conversion and (b) selectivity to propylene obtained with and without the 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst for PDH at 550 and 600 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2.
3.3.3. Catalyst Deactivation Modes
The mode of catalyst deactivation in alkane dehydrogenation mainly includes (1) coke deposition, (2) sintering of active metal sites, (28) (3) transformation of active phase, (43) and (4) losing of active metals, such as zinc (44,46) that can be sublimated at a high temperature. For a Co-based catalyst, the metal loss via sublimation into gas phase can be ignored, but the other three modes could take place in the reaction and should be considered seriously. Especially, as the incorporated Co(II) atoms are separated out from the Co@MFI catalyst in the reaction, the separated Co species can be further reduced in a reductive atmosphere (H2 and hydrocarbons) and then sintered into Co0 clusters. Thus, decomposition of alkanes has to take place, and the employed catalyst is bound to suffer an irreversible deactivation. As shown in Figure 11a, the Co-based catalysts that are prepared by the impregnation method accumulated a large amount of coke (about 7–90 wt %, Table S4) in the EDH reaction certainly due to the existence of the easily reducible CoOx clusters in them. In comparison, the coke amounts in the spent Co@MFI catalysts synthesized by the hydrothermal method were all below 2 wt % after 5 h tests, even though the reaction was carried out at higher space velocities (6000–20,000 mL/g/h). The resistance to coke deposition over the Co@MFI catalyst can be owed to (1) difficult reduction of the incorporated Co(II) species into metallic Co atoms below the reaction temperature (Figure 1) and (2) the −Co–O–Si– structure showing high dissociation energies for both C–H and C–C bonds (Figure 9). As a result, the products stopped at C2H4 without further being converted into CH4 or/and coke, ensuring the extremely high selectivity to olefins (∼99%) and good catalyst stability naturally.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Characterization of spent catalyst samples collected from the EDH tests at 600 °C, 6000 mL/g/h (3000 mL/g/h for Co/MFI and Co/SiO2), and 90%C2H6/10%N2. (a) TG curves; (b) O2-TPO profiles; (c) SEM observations; (d) Raman spectra; and (e–g) XPS spectra.
In the spent Co/MFI samples, a large amount of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) was observed everywhere (Figure 11c). The formation of CNTs should be generated over Co0 clusters, (54) which can be then regarded as a signal of the existence of zero-valent metal in a sample. In comparison, very rare CNTs were formed over the spent Co@MFI samples certainly because the incorporated Co(II) species were kept well in the −Co–O–Si– structure without being transformed into the phase of Co0 clusters. The feature of CNTs was also confirmed by Raman spectra (Figure 11d): the bands at 1320, 1606, and 2618 cm–1 that can be attributed to D-band (a defect-induced band), G band (a graphite-related optical mode with sp2 carbons), and G′ band, (59) respectively. In comparison, the broad Raman band for the spent 6 wt % Co@MFI sample may suggest that the coke could be amorphous with less sp2 carbons. O2-TPO profiles (Figure 11b) show at least two kinds of coke formed in the spent Co-impregnated catalysts. The peak at a higher temperature was attributed to the burning of CNTs or/and graphite-like carbon that has a high degree of crystallinity, (58) while the one at lower temperature might be ascribed to the catalytic burning of coke over its neighboring metal sites. (94) The coke-burning temperature range in O2-TPO is much broader than that in TG, and this difference might be caused by the different O2 concentrations and flow rates (10%O2/He with 30 mL/min in O2-TPO vs 100%O2 with 50 mL/min in TG) as well as different sample loadings (50 vs 7–8 mg). Water (m/z = 18) was little detected by mass in the O2-TPO, suggesting that the coke was poor in hydrogen due to the complete dehydrogenation over Co0 clusters.
Although coke deposition on active sites leads to catalyst deactivation, the catalyst activity in most cases can be regenerated by burning the coke with O2. (60) However, the catalyst would be deactivated irreversibly if the separation of Co species from the Co@MFI catalyst occurs in reaction followed by reduction and sintering into Co0 clusters. Considering that the reduction of Co@MFI was temperature-programmed in the H2-TPR experiment with a very short period for the catalyst to stay at the reaction temperature, the Co species may suffer from a gradual reduction with time on stream to form an unexpected Co0 phase. In addition to the reaction time, reaction temperature is more majorly responsible for the separation. Previously, we observed that the exchanged Co2+ species in the Co-exchanged Co/ZSM-5 (Si/Al = 12.5, 1.4 wt % of Co) were de-anchored from their exchange sites in MDA (>700 °C) (58) but were still stable in ethane dehydroaromatization (600 °C). (69) Due to coverage by coke deposition, identification of the Co0 clusters in the spent samples was not sensitive for using the XPS technique (Figure 11e). However, H2-TPR is qualified and efficient because any Co0 cluster can be clearly recognized at a low-temperature range in H2-TPR after its appropriate oxidation.
For the spent 6 wt % Co@MFI samples reacted for EDH at 550, 600, and 650 °C (Figure S7), they were first treated with a 10%O2/He stream at the catalyst calcination temperature, that is, 550 °C in a TPD setup for 2 h, with the aim of removing all coke deposition and oxidizing the existing Co0 clusters as far as possible. After confirming that coke was completely removed (Figure S16), an in situ H2-TPR was performed on the samples at room temperature. As shown in Figure 12, it is clear that with increasing the reaction temperature, the separation of Co from Co@MFI was enhanced. After 5 h of reaction at 650 °C for the 6 wt % Co@MFI especially, almost all Co species that were reduced in the range of 600–800 °C can be done in a lower range of 200–500 °C. In comparison, the Co species were relatively stable at both 550 and 600 °C. As the fresh 6 wt % Co@MFI was pre-reduced in a H2 stream at 700 °C for 30 min, it showed a rapid deactivation at 600 °C, 6000 mL/g/h, and 90%C2H6/10%N2 (Figure S17). The initial selectivity to ethylene decreased below 90%, which suggests an occurrence of ethane cracking. The H2-TPR experiment confirms that the formation of the unexpected Co0 clusters took place easily in H2 at 700 °C (see the black dash line in Figure 12). Due to the Co0 clusters, a high coke content of about 14.5 wt % was accumulated in the H2-pre-treated 6 wt % Co@MFI spent sample after 5 h of reaction. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that the H2 consumption of all reducible CoOx species in the O2-treated samples was clearly lower than that in the impregnated 6 wt % Co/MFI sample (dot dash line in Figure 12). This may demonstrate that not all Co species are separated from the MFI framework, and the remaining unreducible −Co–O– species can further work for alkane dehydrogenation.
Figure 12
Figure 12. H2-TPR profiles of (1) 10%O2-treated (550 °C for 2 h) spent 6 wt % Co@MFI samples collected from the EDH tests at 550–650 °C (related to Figure S7), (2) 10%H2-reduced (700 °C for 30 min) and then 10%O2-oxidized (550 °C for 60 min) 6 wt % Co@MFI sample without reaction, and (3) freshly impregnated 6 wt % Co/MFI for comparison.
3.3.4. Strategies on Improving the Stability of the Co@MFI Catalyst
According to the above-mentioned catalyst deactivation modes, the catalyst stability can be improved by suppressing coke deposition in the reaction stage and avoiding the separation of Co(II) species from −Co–O–Si– structure. Of course, periodical catalyst regeneration for timely eliminating the coke is another conventional and practical strategy for extending the catalyst’s long-term operation (60) as long as the catalyst structure and active phase are maintained well in both reaction and regeneration. Here, we will mainly pay attention to the strategies on improving the stability of the Co@MFI catalyst during the reaction period.
(i) Addition of H2 into feed. Although H2 itself is produced in the reaction, the addition of extra H2 into the feed has been proved effective for improving catalyst stability, which becomes a general strategy in alkane dehydrogenation. (41,45) The additional H2 can suppress the reversible coking reaction thermodynamically, lowering the coke accumulation rate on the catalyst. However, it can also suppress the dehydrogenation reaction, leading to a decrease in the alkane conversion. As shown in Figure 5, the effect of the addition of H2 on improving the stability of the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst for PDH (600 °C) was much significant, and the decrease in propane conversion from 60 to 48% was not serious. After 5 h of the PDH reaction (Figure 5), the coke amounts in the spent catalysts were 0.74 and 4.2 wt % for the tests with and without H2 addition, respectively.
(ii) Addition of H2O into the feed. Addition of H2O into the alkane feed can also suppress coke accumulation via its in situ gasification with coke (H2O + C = COx + H2) or/and steam reforming with part alkanes to produce H2. As shown in Figure S18, the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst showed to be more stable for PDH with co-feeding H2O (about 5% in the 20%C3H8/80%N2 feed) in comparison with the same test without H2O (Figure 5a). It confirms that the coke content was only 0.85 wt % in the spent sample. However, it can be seen that the propane conversion was suppressed to a lower level of about 35% than that in the case of co-feeding H2 (48%). This result, on the one hand, suggests that the steam reforming reaction was not serious. On the other hand, nevertheless, H2O as a polar and oxidizing molecule may strongly adsorb at Co sites to affect the charge distribution in the −Coδ+–Oδ−– sites, for example, increasing the valence state (δ+) of Co species, which may be a possible reason for the decrease in propane conversion.
(iii) Modification of the Co@MFI catalyst with a P promoter.
Addition of a promoter adjusts the charge distribution on active sites in a catalyst and then can regulate catalytic behavior. (65) In the synthesis of Co@MFI, a P promoter ((NH4)2HPO4) was added to prepare P-modified 6 wt % Co@MFI catalysts with P/Co ratios of 0.5–2. The MFI structure could be maintained well at P/Co ratios not larger than 1 but would not be formed at the ratio of 2 (XRD, Figure 13a). For the 6CoP0.5@MFI and 6CoP1@MFI catalysts, their start-up temperatures for reduction in H2-TPR were both delayed by about 50 °C in comparison with that of the P-free 6Co@MFI catalyst (Figure 13b). Although their reduction peaks (∼750 °C) were not shifted, this delay could be beneficial to alleviate Co separation in the reaction, especially at a higher temperature. As shown in Figure 13c, for EDH at a harsher condition of 650 °C, the stability of the P-modified 6Co@MFI catalysts was indeed improved to a certain degree. The activity of the Co@MFI catalyst was suppressed with doping more P promoter, especially for the 6CoP2@MFI catalyst that gave an ethane conversion of only about 5% closer to the thermal conversion at 650 °C (Figure S15). At a suitable P/Co ratio, however, it can be seen that after 5 h of reaction the P-modified Co@MFI catalyst retained a higher ethane conversion. Over the P-modified Co@MFI catalyst, the selectivity to olefins (ethylene and propylene) maintained about 99% (Figure 13d). The effectiveness of the P promoter was also reported for a Ni-based catalyst in CH4 nonoxidative reaction where CH4 would be pyrolyzed over an easily reduced Ni-based catalyst but could selectively convert C2+ hydrocarbons over a P-promoted Ni catalyst at extremely high temperature (>800 °C) due to the stabilization of Niδ+ species by P. (95) With refining the regulation of the P component or other promoters in the synthesis of the Co@MFI catalyst, an advanced Co-based catalyst with a better stability for EDH and PDH can be expected.
Figure 13
Figure 13. (a) XRD patterns, (b) H2-TPR profiles, and (c,d) EDH activity (650 °C, 6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%) of P-modified 6 wt % Co@MFI catalysts.
3.3.5. Pending Issue
The hydrothermally synthesized ligand-free Co@MFI catalyst has showed a good catalytic performance for alkanes dehydrogenation under the reaction condition of 600 °C where an approach to thermodynamic equilibrium conversion can be easily reached. The equilibrium-accessible activity and outstanding selectivity of the Co@MFI catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation can be certainly ascribed to the stable −Coδ+–Oδ−– structure which can serve as a Lewis acid–base pair for the C–H bond activation. (60) However, its activity showed a significant deviation from the equilibrium value at a slightly decreased temperature, for example, 550 °C, which is observed not only in this study but also elsewhere. (21,96) Therefore, there is still a pending issue that needs to be solved in a future work on understanding the essential reason for different catalytic behaviors of a Co-based catalyst at various reaction temperatures. With that, it will help us to explore a practical strategy for improving the potential low-temperature activity or/and high-temperature stability of Co-based catalysts. A clue suggested by this study is that there may be an appropriate electronic state of Coδ+ species, that is, the value of δ+, for activating both C–H and C–C bonds. A higher δ+ may lead to a lower activity for C–H and C–C bond activation, while a lower one close to zero (Co0) promote the scissions of both bonds. At a low reaction temperature, the δ+ was kept at a high level due to the difficult reduction of Co species by H2 (Figure 1c), which might be one reason for the low activity of the Co@MFI catalyst at 550 °C for EDH and PDH. This may also be the possible reason for the P-modified Co@MFI catalyst showing a suppressed EDH activity at 650 °C (Figure 13c). On the other hand, a high δ+ for Coδ+ species can be also maintained in an oxidative atmosphere, suppressing the conversion of alkanes. In addition to the case of co-feeding H2O (Figure S18), co-feeding CO2 into the ethane feed also led to a great decrease in ethane conversion (Figure S19). Especially, EDH (20%C2H6/80%N2) activity of the 6%Co@MFI catalyst could be obviously elevated at 550 °C from about 4.5% up to 10%, as the catalyst was pre-activated at 600 °C for 1 h (Figure S20).
4. Conclusions
In this study, a series of Al-free, that is, BAS-free Co@MFI catalysts were synthesized hydrothermally and tested for alkane (ethane and propane) dehydrogenation. With various characterizations, mainly including XRD, XPS, XAS, SEM, STEM, and H2-TPR, a large number of activity tests at various reaction conditions and special DFT calculations, the following crucial conclusions can be reached.
(1) Coordination agents such as EDTA and NH3·H2O are not indispensable for successful synthesis of the Co@MFI catalyst. The ligand-unassisted Co@MFI can maintain a high crystallinity of MFI zeolite at Co contents up to 10 wt %. The Co species are atomically dispersed in Co@MFI with the formation of a stable −Coδ+–Oδ−– structure that can withstand the reduction by H2 at the reaction temperature (600 °C).
(2) A conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship for alkane dehydrogenation is highly dependent on the chemical state of the Co species. The relatively irreducible −Coδ+–Oδ−– species in the hydrothermally synthesized Co@MFI can suppress C–C bond cracking but can selectively activate C–H bond, leading to an extremely high selectivity (∼99%) to olefins. Impregnated Co/MFI and Co/SiO2 samples contain reducible CoOx clusters that can be completely reduced into Co0 clusters below 500 °C and then promote both C–C and C–H bond scissions. The −Coδ+–Oδ−– species in well-crystallized Co@MFI (<10 wt %) are highly active for EDH at 600 °C where equilibrium conversions could be easily reached, but those in an amorphous Co@MFI (>10%) without an MFI structure were almost inactive.
(3) The deactivation of the Co@MFI catalyst reacted below 600 °C mainly caused coke accumulation, while that at higher reaction temperatures also included an irreversible mode of a gradual dissolution of Coδ+ from Co@MFI into Co0 clusters by H2. The addition of H2 or H2O could suppress coke accumulation and obviously improve catalyst stability. However, addition of oxygen-containing compounds like H2O and CO2 could obviously suppress the activity of −Coδ+–Oδ−– species.
(4) There is a fully and appropriate working temperature window that happens to be 600 °C for the Co sites in the Co@MFI catalyst, suggesting that the activity of Co@MFI is temperature dependent. Below this temperature, the catalyst showed a lower alkane conversion seriously deviating from the thermodynamical equilibrium value, while over that thermal and catalytic cracking of alkanes would be enhanced.
(5) Essentially, there may be an appropriate electronic state of Coδ+ species, that is, the value of δ, controlling the activity and selectivity of the Co@MFI catalyst, which is hinted at by several aspects in this study. A higher δ, corresponding to the tests for P-modified and amorphous Co@MFI, those at low reaction temperatures, and those co-fed with H2O and CO2 showed a lower activity for C–H scission, while a lower one, especially close to zero, would promote both C–H and C–C bond cleavages.
Supporting Information
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acscatal.2c05860.
XRD patterns, NH3-TPD profiles, and FT-IR spectra of MFI and selected Co/MFI and Co@MFI samples; H2-TPR profile of pure Co3O4; XPS spectra and FT k3-weighted χ(k)-function of the EXAFS spectra of selected samples; effects of reaction temperature, space velocity, Co content, and ethane content on the EDH activity over the Co@MFI catalyst; characterizations and activity evaluation of EDTA and DDA-assisted synthesized Co-based catalysts; pH values for the precipitation of various metal ions; color changes of catalyst in the preparation stage; effect of TPAOH on the activity of Co@MFI; C2H6-pulse experiments over selected samples; O2-TPO profile of a spent 6 wt % Co@MFI; effects of co-feeding of H2O and CO2 on the activity and stability of the Co@MFI catalyst; Co loadings in various synthesized catalysts and BET surface area and micropore volume of selected samples; structural parameters of EXAFS fitting for Co@MFI catalysts; Bader charge changes for different models of Co locations in MFI; and coke contents in spent samples (PDF)
cs2c05860_si_001.pdf (1.46 MB)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
Corresponding Authors
Zhijian Liu - Sinopec Catalyst Co., Ltd., 100029Beijing, China;  Email: liuzj@sinopec.com
Xiaohao Liu - Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, 214122Wuxi, China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6746-9514;  Email: liuxh@jiangnan.edu.cn
Authors
Yuebing Xu - Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, 214122Wuxi, China
Wenjin Hu - Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, 214122Wuxi, China
Yufeng Li - Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, 214122Wuxi, China
Haixia Su - Sinopec Catalyst Co., Ltd., 100029Beijing, China
Weijun Liang - Sinopec Catalyst Co., Ltd., 100029Beijing, China
Bing Liu - Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, 214122Wuxi, China
Jianyi Gong - Sinopec Catalyst Co., Ltd., 100029Beijing, China
Author Contributions
Y.X. and W.H. contributed equally.
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
We are grateful for the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21576119 and 21878127). Collaborative Research and Innovation Program for Carbon Resources High Efficiency Utilization & Sustainable Development was jointly sponsored by Jiangnan University and Sinopec Catalyst Co., LTD. We thank the financial support from Sinopec Catalyst Co., LTD. (Contract nos 36100000-22-ZC0607-0035 and 36100000-22-ZC0607-0037). We also appreciate the support from the Central Laboratory of School of Chemical and Material Engineering of Jiangnan University.
References
This article references 96 other publications.
1Amghizar, I.; Vandewalle, L. A.; Van Geem, K. M.; Marin, G. B. New Trends in Olefin Production. Engineering 2017, 3, 171– 178,  DOI: 10.1016/j.eng.2017.02.006
Google Scholar
2Haghighi, S. S.; Rahimpour, M. R.; Raeissi, S.; Dehghani, O. Investigation of ethylene production in naphtha thermal cracking plant in presence of steam and carbon dioxide. Chem. Eng. J. 2013, 228, 1158– 1167,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cej.2013.05.048
Google Scholar
3Yang, M.; Fan, D.; Wei, Y.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. Recent Progress in Methanol-to-Olefins (MTO) Catalysts. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1902181,  DOI: 10.1002/adma.201902181
Google Scholar
4Zhong, J.; Han, J.; Wei, Y.; Tian, P.; Guo, X.; Song, C.; Liu, Z. Recent advances of the nano-hierarchical SAPO-34 in the methanol-to-olefin (MTO) reaction and other applications. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2017, 7, 4905– 4923,  DOI: 10.1039/c7cy01466j
Google Scholar
5Sun, Q.; Xie, Z.; Yu, J. The state-of-the-art synthetic strategies for SAPO-34 zeolite catalysts in methanol-to-olefin conversion. Nat. Sci. Rev. 2018, 5, 542– 558,  DOI: 10.1093/nsr/nwx103
Google Scholar
6Jiang, F.; Wang, S.; Zheng, J.; Liu, B.; Xu, Y.; Liu, X. Fischer-Tropsch synthesis to lower α-olefins over cobalt-based catalysts: Dependence of the promotional effect of promoter on supports. Catal. Today 2021, 369, 158– 166,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2020.03.051
Google Scholar
7Liu, B.; Li, W.; Xu, Y.; Lin, Q.; Jiang, F.; Liu, X. Insight into the Intrinsic Active Site for Selective Production of Light Olefins in Cobalt-Catalyzed Fischer-Tropsch Synthesis. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 7073– 7089,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b00352
Google Scholar
8Masudi, A.; Jusoh, N. W. C.; Muraza, O. Opportunities for less-explored zeolitic materials in the syngas-to-olefins pathway over nanoarchitectured catalysts: a mini review. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2020, 10, 1582– 1596,  DOI: 10.1039/c9cy01875a
Google Scholar
9Ortiz-Bravo, C. A.; Chagas, C. A.; Toniolo, F. S. Oxidative coupling of methane (OCM): An overview of the challenges and opportunities for developing new technologies. J. Nat. Gas Sci. Eng. 2021, 96, 104254,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jngse.2021.104254
Google Scholar
10Spallina, V.; Velarde, I. C.; Jimenez, J. A. M.; Godini, H. R.; Gallucci, F.; Van Sint Annaland, M. V. S. Techno-economic assessment of different routes for olefins production through the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM): Advances in benchmark technologies. Energy Convers. Manag. 2017, 154, 244– 261,  DOI: 10.1016/j.enconman.2017.10.061
Google Scholar
11Gambo, Y.; Jalil, A. A.; Triwahyono, S.; Abdulrasheed, A. A. Recent advances and future prospect in catalysts for oxidative coupling of methane to ethylene: A review. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2018, 59, 218– 229,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jiec.2017.10.027
Google Scholar
12Najari, S.; Saeidi, S.; Concepcion, P.; Dionysiou, D. D.; Bhargava, S. K.; Lee, A. F.; Wilson, K. Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane: catalytic and mechanistic aspects and future trends. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 4564– 4605,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cs01518k
Google Scholar
13Alamdari, A.; Karimzadeh, R.; Abbasizadeh, S. Present state of the art of and outlook on oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane: catalysts and mechanisms. Rev. Chem. Eng. 2021, 37, 481– 532,  DOI: 10.1515/revce-2017-0109
Google Scholar
14Dai, Y.; Gao, X.; Wang, Q.; Wan, X.; Zhou, C.; Yang, Y. Recent progress in heterogeneous metal and metal oxide catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 5590– 5630,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cs01260b
Google Scholar
15Chen, S.; Chang, X.; Sun, G.; Zhang, T.; Xu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Pei, C.; Gong, J. Propane dehydrogenation: catalyst development, new chemistry, and emerging technologies. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 3315– 3354,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cs00814a
Google Scholar
16Otroshchenko, T.; Jiang, G.; Kondratenko, V. A.; Rodemerck, U.; Kondratenko, E. V. Current status and perspectives in oxidative, non-oxidative and CO2-mediated dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane over metal oxide catalysts. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 473– 527,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cs01140a
Google Scholar
17Monai, M.; Gambino, M.; Wannakao, S.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Propane to olefins tandem catalysis: a selective route towards light olefins production. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 11503– 11529,  DOI: 10.1039/d1cs00357g
Google Scholar
18Yang, Z.; Li, H.; Zhou, H.; Wang, L.; Wang, L.; Zhu, Q.; Xiao, J.; Meng, X.; Chen, J.; Xiao, F. S. Coking-Resistant Iron Catalyst in Ethane Dehydrogenation Achieved through Siliceous Zeolite Modulation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 16429– 16436,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c07792
Google Scholar
19Yu, K.; Srinivas, S.; Wang, C.; Chen, W.; Ma, L.; Ehrlich, S. N.; Marinkovic, N.; Kumar, P.; Stach, E. A.; Caratzoulas, S.; Zheng, W.; Vlachos, D. G. High-Temperature Pretreatment Effect on Co/SiO2 Active Sites and Ethane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 11749– 11760,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.2c03180
Google Scholar
20Jeong, M. H.; Lee, D. H.; Moon, J. W.; Sun, J.; Choi, J. S.; Hong, D. S.; Chung, C.-H.; Bae, J. W. Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and subsequent CO2 activation on Ce-incorporated FeTiOx metal oxides. Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 433, 134621,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cej.2022.134621
Google Scholar
21Wu, L.; Ren, Z.; He, Y.; Yang, M.; Yu, Y.; Liu, Y.; Tan, L.; Tang, Y. Atomically Dispersed Co2+ Sites Incorporated into a Silicalite-1 Zeolite Framework as a High-Performance and Coking-Resistant Catalyst for Propane Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2021, 13, 48934– 48948,  DOI: 10.1021/acsami.1c15892
Google Scholar
22Hu, Z. P.; Qin, G.; Han, J.; Zhang, W.; Wang, N.; Zheng, Y.; Jiang, Q.; Ji, T.; Yuan, Z. Y.; Xiao, J.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Atomic Insight into the Local Structure and Microenvironment of Isolated Co-Motifs in MFI Zeolite Frameworks for Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 12127– 12137,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.2c02636
Google Scholar
23Liu, Z.; Yan, B.; Meng, S.; Liu, R.; Lu, W. D.; Sheng, J.; Yi, Y.; Lu, A. H. Plasma Tuning Local Environment of Hexagonal Boron Nitride for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 19691– 19695,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202106713
Google Scholar
24Monguen, C. K. F.; Kasmi, A. E.; Arshad, M. F.; Kouotou, P. M.; Daniel, S.; Tian, Z.-Y. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane into Propene over Chromium Oxides. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2022, 61, 4546– 4560,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.2c00813
Google Scholar
25Yan, H.; Alayoglu, S.; Wu, W.; Zhang, Y.; Weitz, E.; Stair, P. C.; Notestein, J. M. Identifying Boron Active Sites for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 9370– 9376,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c02168
Google Scholar
26Zhou, H.; Yi, X.; Hui, Y.; Wang, L.; Chen, W.; Qin, Y.; Wang, M.; Ma, J.; Chu, X.; Wang, Y.; Hong, X.; Chen, Z.; Meng, X.; Wang, H.; Zhu, Q.; Song, L.; Zheng, A.; Xiao, F.-S. Isolated boron in zeolite for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Science 2021, 372, 76– 80,  DOI: 10.1126/science.abe7935
Google Scholar
27Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Vining, W. C.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. Novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2011, 282, 165– 174,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008
Google Scholar
28Li, X.; Zhou, Y.; Qiao, B.; Pan, X.; Wang, C.; Cao, L.; Li, L.; Lin, J.; Wang, X. Enhanced stability of Pt/Al2O3 modified by Zn promoter for catalytic dehydrogenation of ethane. J. Energy Chem. 2020, 51, 14– 20,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jechem.2020.03.045
Google Scholar
29De, S.; Ould-Chikh, S.; Aguilar, A.; Hazemann, J.-L.; Zitolo, A.; Ramirez, A.; Telalovic, S.; Gascon, J. Stable Cr-MFI Catalysts for the Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane: Catalytic Performance and Nature of the Active Sites. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 3988– 3995,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c05170
Google Scholar
30Qiu, B.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, Y. The state of Pt active phase and its surrounding environment during dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2021, 554, 149611,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apsusc.2021.149611
Google Scholar
31Felvey, N. W.; Meloni, M. J.; Kronawitter, C. X.; Runnebaum, R. C. Ethane dehydrogenation over Cr/ZSM-5: characterization of active sites through probe molecule adsorption FTIR. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2020, 10, 5069– 5081,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cy01022g
Google Scholar
32Zhou, H.; Gong, J.; Xu, B.; Deng, S.; Ding, Y.; Yu, L.; Fan, Y. PtSnNa/SUZ-4: An efficient catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Chin. J. Catal. 2017, 38, 529– 536,  DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2067(17)62750-5
Google Scholar
33Hu, Z.-P.; Wang, Y.; Yang, D.; Yuan, Z.-Y. CrO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 for propane dehydrogenation. J. Energy Chem. 2020, 47, 225– 233,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010
Google Scholar
34Han, S.; Otroshchenko, T.; Zhao, D.; Lund, H.; Rockstroh, N.; Vuong, T. H.; Rabeah, J.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Gao, M.; Jiang, G.; Kondratenko, E. V. The effect of ZrO2 crystallinity in CrZrOx/SiO2 on non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., A 2020, 590, 117350,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2019.117350
Google Scholar
35Chen, S.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Mu, R.; Chang, X.; Luo, J.; Purdy, S. C.; Kropf, A. J.; Sun, G.; Pei, C.; Miller, J. T.; Zhou, X.; Vovk, E.; Yang, Y.; Gong, J. Propane Dehydrogenation on Single-Site [PtZn4] Intermetallic Catalysts. Chem 2021, 7, 387– 405,  DOI: 10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008
Google Scholar
36Qi, L.; Babucci, M.; Zhang, Y.; Lund, A.; Liu, L.; Li, J.; Chen, Y.; Hoffman, A. S.; Bare, S. R.; Han, Y.; Gates, B. C.; Bell, A. T. Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Atoms in ≡SiOZn-OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 21364– 21378,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c10261
Google Scholar
37Nakaya, Y.; Hirayama, J.; Yamazoe, S.; Shimizu, K. I.; Furukawa, S. Single-atom Pt in intermetallics as an ultrastable and selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 2838,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9
Google Scholar
38Kaylor, N.; Davis, R. J. Propane dehydrogenation over supported Pt-Sn nanoparticles. J. Catal. 2018, 367, 181– 193,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2018.09.006
Google Scholar
39Ji, Z.; Miao, D.; Gao, L.; Pan, X.; Bao, X. Effect of pH on the catalytic performance of PtSn/B-ZrO2 in propane dehydrogenation. Chin. J. Catal. 2020, 41, 719– 729,  DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2067(19)63395-4
Google Scholar
40Wang, J.; Chang, X.; Chen, S.; Sun, G.; Zhou, X.; Vovk, E.; Yang, Y.; Deng, W.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Mu, R.; Pei, C.; Gong, J. On the Role of Sn Segregation of Pt-Sn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 4401– 4410,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c00639
Google Scholar
41Motagamwala, A. H.; Almallahi, R.; Wortman, J.; Igenegbai, V. O.; Linic, S. Stable and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation operating at thermodynamic limit. Science 2021, 373, 217– 222,  DOI: 10.1126/science.abg7894
Google Scholar
42Liu, G.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Wu, T.; Zeng, L.; Gong, J. Nature of the Active Sites of VOx/Al2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 5207– 5214,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.6b00893
Google Scholar
43Gu, Y.; Liu, H.; Yang, M.; Ma, Z.; Zhao, L.; Xing, W.; Wu, P.; Liu, X.; Mintova, S.; Bai, P.; Yan, Z. Highly stable phosphine modified VOx/Al2O3 catalyst in propane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., B 2020, 274, 119089,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119089
Google Scholar
44Song, S.; Yang, K.; Zhang, P.; Wu, Z.; Li, J.; Su, H.; Dai, S.; Xu, C.; Li, Z.; Liu, J.; Song, W. Silicalite-1 Stabilizes Zn-Hydride Species for Efficient Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 5997– 6006,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.2c00928
Google Scholar
45Zhao, D.; Tian, X.; Doronkin, D. E.; Han, S.; Kondratenko, V. A.; Grunwaldt, J. D.; Perechodjuk, A.; Vuong, T. H.; Rabeah, J.; Eckelt, R.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Jiang, G.; Jiao, H.; Kondratenko, E. V. In situ formation of ZnOx species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. Nature 2021, 599, 234– 238,  DOI: 10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3
Google Scholar
46Nozik, D.; Tinga, F. M. P.; Bell, A. T. Propane Dehydrogenation and Cracking over Zn/H-MFI Prepared by Solid-State Ion Exchange of ZnCl2. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 14489– 14506,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c03641
Google Scholar
47Qiu, B.; Jiang, F.; Lu, W.-D.; Yan, B.; Li, W.-C.; Zhao, Z.-C.; Lu, A.-H. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using layered borosilicate zeolite as the active and selective catalyst. J. Catal. 2020, 385, 176– 182,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021
Google Scholar
48Gong, N.; Zhao, Z. Peony-like Pentahedral Al(III)-Enriched Alumina Nanosheets for the Dehydrogenation of Propane. ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2019, 2, 5833– 5840,  DOI: 10.1021/acsanm.9b01293
Google Scholar
49Zhang, H.; Zhang, K.; Wang, G.; Tang, N.; Zhu, X.; Li, C.; Shan, H. Propane dehydrogenation over core-shell structured Al2O3@Al via hydrothermal oxidation synthesis. Fuel 2022, 312, 122756,  DOI: 10.1016/j.fuel.2021.122756
Google Scholar
50Kim, W.-G.; So, J.; Choi, S.-W.; Liu, Y.; Dixit, R. S.; Sievers, C.; Sholl, D. S.; Nair, S.; Jones, C. W. Hierarchical Ga-MFI Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. Chem. Mater. 2017, 29, 7213– 7222,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b01566
Google Scholar
51Ni, L.; Khare, R.; Bermejo-Deval, R.; Zhao, R.; Tao, L.; Liu, Y.; Lercher, J. A. Highly Active and Selective Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation in Zeolite Ga-BEA. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 12347– 12356,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.2c03810
Google Scholar
52Bian, Y.; Kim, M.; Li, T.; Asthagiri, A.; Weaver, J. F. Facile Dehydrogenation of Ethane on the IrO2(110) Surface. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 2665– 2672,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.7b13599
Google Scholar
53Wang, C.; Han, Y.; Tian, M.; Li, L.; Lin, J.; Wang, X.; Zhang, T. Main-Group Catalysts with Atomically Dispersed In Sites for Highly Efficient Oxidative Dehydrogenation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 16855– 16865,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.2c04926
Google Scholar
54Majewska, J.; Michalkiewicz, B. Production of hydrogen and carbon nanomaterials from methane using Co/ZSM-5 catalyst. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2016, 41, 8668– 8678,  DOI: 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.01.097
Google Scholar
55Alves Silva, J.; Oliveira Santos, J. B.; Torres, D.; Pinilla, J. L.; Suelves, I. Natural Fe-based catalysts for the production of hydrogen and carbon nanomaterials via methane decomposition. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2021, 46, 35137– 35148,  DOI: 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.08.065
Google Scholar
56Torres, D.; Pinilla, J. L.; Suelves, I. Non-oxidative decomposition of propane: Ni-Cu/Al2O3 catalyst for the production of CO2-free hydrogen and high-value carbon nanofibers. J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 2021, 9, 105022,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jece.2020.105022
Google Scholar
57Xu, Y.; Yuan, X.; Chen, M.; Dong, A.; Liu, B.; Jiang, F.; Yang, S.; Liu, X. Identification of atomically dispersed Fe-oxo species as new active sites in HZSM-5 for efficient non-oxidative methane dehydroaromatization. J. Catal. 2021, 396, 224– 241,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2021.02.028
Google Scholar
58Xu, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, T.; Liu, B.; Jiang, F.; Liu, X. Probing cobalt localization on HZSM-5 for efficient methane dehydroaromatization catalysts. J. Catal. 2020, 387, 102– 118,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.04.021
Google Scholar
59Xu, Y.; Chen, M.; Liu, B.; Jiang, F.; Liu, X. CH4 conversion over Ni/HZSM-5 catalyst in the absence of oxygen: decomposition or dehydroaromatization?. Chem. Commun. 2020, 56, 4396– 4399,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cc01345e
Google Scholar
60Xu, Y.; Yu, W.; Zhang, H.; Xin, J.; He, X.; Liu, B.; Jiang, F.; Liu, X. Suppressing C-C Bond Dissociation for Efficient Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Isolated Co(II) Sites in SAPO-34. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 13001– 13019,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c03382
Google Scholar
61Sharma, L.; Purdy, S. C.; Page, K.; Rangarajan, S.; Pham, H.; Datye, A.; Baltrusaitis, J. Sulfur Tolerant Subnanometer Fe/Alumina Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2021, 4, 10055– 10067,  DOI: 10.1021/acsanm.1c01366
Google Scholar
62Wang, L.-C.; Zhang, Y.; Xu, J.; Diao, W.; Karakalos, S.; Liu, B.; Song, X.; Wu, W.; He, T.; Ding, D. Non-oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene over ZSM-5 zeolite supported iron catalysts. Appl. Catal., B 2019, 256, 117816,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.117816
Google Scholar
63Gao, Y.; Peng, L.; Long, J.; Wu, Y.; Dai, Y.; Yang, Y. Hydrogen pre-reduction determined Co-silica interaction and performance of cobalt catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2021, 323, 111187,  DOI: 10.1016/j.micromeso.2021.111187
Google Scholar
64Bian, Z.; Dewangan, N.; Wang, Z.; Pati, S.; Xi, S.; Borgna, A.; Kus, H.; Kawi, S. Mesoporous-Silica-Stabilized Cobalt(II) Oxide Nanoclusters for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2021, 4, 1112– 1125,  DOI: 10.1021/acsanm.0c02721
Google Scholar
65Muhlenkamp, J. A.; LiBretto, N. J.; Miller, J. T.; Hicks, J. C. Ethane dehydrogenation performance and high temperature stability of silica supported cobalt phosphide nanoparticles. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2022, 12, 976– 985,  DOI: 10.1039/d1cy01737c
Google Scholar
66Wang, W.; Wu, Y.; Liu, T.; Zhao, Y.; Qu, Y.; Yang, R.; Xue, Z.; Wang, Z.; Zhou, F.; Long, J.; Yang, Z.; Han, X.; Lin, Y.; Chen, M.; Zheng, L.; Zhou, H.; Lin, X.; Wu, F.; Wang, H.; Yang, Y.; Li, Y.; Dai, Y.; Wu, Y. Single Co Sites in Ordered SiO2 Channels for Boosting Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 2632– 2638,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c05921
Google Scholar
67Dai, Y.; Gu, J.; Tian, S.; Wu, Y.; Chen, J.; Li, F.; Du, Y.; Peng, L.; Ding, W.; Yang, Y. γ-Al2O3 sheet-stabilized isolate Co2+ for catalytic propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2020, 381, 482– 492,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026
Google Scholar
68Chen, C.; Zhang, S.; Wang, Z.; Yuan, Z.-Y. Ultrasmall Co confined in the silanols of dealuminated beta zeolite: A highly active and selective catalyst for direct dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. J. Catal. 2020, 383, 77– 87,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037
Google Scholar
69Hu, W.; Xu, Y.; Xin, J.; Liu, B.; Jiang, F.; Liu, X. Stable co-production of olefins and aromatics from ethane over Co2+-exchanged HZSM-5 zeolite. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2022, 12, 3716– 3726,  DOI: 10.1039/d2cy00664b
Google Scholar
70Koike, N.; Iyoki, K.; Wang, B.; Yanaba, Y.; Elangovan, S. P.; Itabashi, K.; Chaikittisilp, W.; Okubo, T. Increasing the ion-exchange capacity of MFI zeolites by introducing Zn to aluminosilicate frameworks. Dalton Trans. 2018, 47, 9546– 9553,  DOI: 10.1039/c8dt01391h
Google Scholar
71Hu, B.; Kim, W. G.; Sulmonetti, T. P.; Sarazen, M. L.; Tan, S.; So, J.; Liu, Y.; Dixit, R. S.; Nair, S.; Jones, C. W. A Mesoporous Cobalt Aluminate Spinel Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ChemCatChem 2017, 9, 3330– 3337,  DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201700647
Google Scholar
72Nasser, G. A.; Sanhoob, M. A.; Bakare, I. A.; Alyassir, N.; Vyas, M.; Malibari, Z.; Yamani, Z. H.; Muraza, O. Green in-situ incorporation of metals in chabazite (CHA) zeolite. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2021, 326, 111375,  DOI: 10.1016/j.micromeso.2021.111375
Google Scholar
73Kunitake, Y.; Yoshioka, M.; Kondo, J. N.; Yokoi, T. Development of AEI-type boroaluminosilicate zeolites, and their acidic and catalytic properties in ethene conversion reaction. Appl. Catal., A 2018, 568, 123– 129,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2018.08.024
Google Scholar
74Long, L.; Su, L.; Hu, W.; Deng, S.; Chen, C.; Shen, F.; Xu, M.; Huang, G.; Yang, G. Micro-mechanism of multi-pathway activation peroxymonosulfate by copper-doped cobalt silicate: The dual role of copper. Appl. Catal., B 2022, 309, 121276,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121276
Google Scholar
75Cheng, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Jiang, H.; Dong, X.; Zheng, J.; Meng, C. Synthesis of amorphous cobalt silicate nanobelts@manganese silicate core-shell structures as enhanced electrode for high-performance hybrid supercapacitors. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2020, 561, 762– 771,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcis.2019.11.052
Google Scholar
76Cheng, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Meng, C. Template Fabrication of Amorphous Co2SiO4 Nanobelts/Graphene Oxide Composites with Enhanced Electrochemical Performances for Hybrid Supercapacitors. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 3830– 3839,  DOI: 10.1021/acsaem.9b00511
Google Scholar
77Hu, T.; Wang, Y.; Dong, X.; Mu, Y.; Pei, X.; Jing, X.; Cui, M.; Meng, C.; Zhang, Y. Cobalt silicate: critical synthetic conditions affect its electrochemical properties for energy storage and conversion. Dalton Trans. 2022, 51, 2815– 2826,  DOI: 10.1039/d1dt03818d
Google Scholar
78Ji, J.; Zhao, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Dong, X.; Meng, C.; Liu, X. Fabrication of Phosphorus-Doped Cobalt Silicate with Improved Electrochemical Properties. Molecules 2021, 26, 6240,  DOI: 10.3390/molecules26206240
Google Scholar
79Arudra, P.; Bhuiyan, T. I.; Akhtar, M. N.; Aitani, A. M.; Al-Khattaf, S. S.; Hattori, H. Silicalite-1 As Efficient Catalyst for Production of Propene from 1-Butene. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 4205– 4214,  DOI: 10.1021/cs5009255
Google Scholar
80Zhu, Z.-S.; Yu, X.-J.; Qu, J.; Jing, Y.-Q.; Abdelkrim, Y.; Yu, Z.-Z. Preforming abundant surface cobalt hydroxyl groups on low crystalline flowerlike Co3(Si2O5)2(OH)2 for enhancing catalytic degradation performances with a critical nonradical reaction. Appl. Catal., B 2020, 261, 118238,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118238
Google Scholar
81Ocotlán-Flores, J.; Saniger, J. M. Catalyst-free SiO2 sonogels. J. Sol-Gel Sci. Technol. 2006, 39, 235– 240,  DOI: 10.1007/s10971-006-7838-4
Google Scholar
82Stoia, M.; Stefanescu, M.; Dippong, T.; Stefanescu, O.; Barvinschi, P. Low temperature synthesis of Co2SiO4/SiO2 nanocomposite using a modified sol-gel method. J. Sol-Gel Sci. Technol. 2010, 54, 49– 56,  DOI: 10.1007/s10971-010-2156-2
Google Scholar
83Bellmann, A.; Rautenberg, C.; Bentrup, U.; Brückner, A. Determining the Location of Co2+ in Zeolites by UV-Vis Diffuse Reflection Spectroscopy: A Critical View. Catalysts 2020, 10, 123,  DOI: 10.3390/catal10010123
Google Scholar
84Dědeček, J.; Kaucky, D.; Wichterlova, B. Co2+ ion siting in pentasil-containing zeolites, part 3. Co2+ ion sites and their occupation in ZSM-5: a VIS diffuse reflectance spectroscopy study. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2000, 35–36, 483– 494,  DOI: 10.1016/S1387-1811(99)00244-9
Google Scholar
85Narkiewicz, U.; Podsiadły, M.; Jędrzejewski, R.; Pełech, I. Catalytic decomposition of hydrocarbons on cobalt, nickel and iron catalysts to obtain carbon nanomaterials. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 384, 27– 35,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2010.05.050
Google Scholar
86Jeon, N.; Oh, J.; Tayal, A.; Jeong, B.; Seo, O.; Kim, S.; Chung, I.; Yun, Y. Effects of heat-treatment atmosphere and temperature on cobalt species in Co/Al2O3 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2021, 404, 1007– 1016,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2021.10.035
Google Scholar
87Dewangan, N.; Ashok, J.; Sethia, M.; Das, S.; Pati, S.; Kus, H.; Kawi, S. Cobalt-Based Catalyst Supported on Different Morphologies of Alumina for Non-oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation: Effect of Metal Support Interaction and Lewis Acidic Sites. ChemCatChem 2019, 11, 4923– 4934,  DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201900924
Google Scholar
88Song, S.; Li, J.; Wu, Z.; Zhang, P.; Sun, Y.; Song, W.; Li, Z.; Liu, J. In situ encapsulated subnanometric CoO clusters within silicalite-1 zeolite for efficient propane dehydrogenation. AIChE J. 2022, 68, 17451,  DOI: 10.1002/aic.17451
Google Scholar
89Cañón, J.; Teplyakov, A. V. XPS characterization of cobalt impregnated SiO2 and γ-Al2O3. Surf. Interface Anal. 2021, 53, 475– 481,  DOI: 10.1002/sia.6935
Google Scholar
90Hu, B.; Getsoian, A. B.; Schweitzer, N. M.; Das, U.; Kim, H.; Niklas, J.; Poluektov, O.; Curtiss, L. A.; Stair, P. C.; Miller, J. T.; Hock, A. S. Selective propane dehydrogenation with single-site CoII on SiO2 by a non-redox mechanism. J. Catal. 2015, 322, 24– 37,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2014.10.018
Google Scholar
91Wang, Y.; Hu, Z.-P.; Lv, X.; Chen, L.; Yuan, Z.-Y. Ultrasmall PtZn bimetallic nanoclusters encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolite with superior performance for propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2020, 385, 61– 69,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.02.019
Google Scholar
92Zhang, X.; He, N.; Liu, C.; Guo, H. Pt-Cu Alloy Nanoparticles Encapsulated in Silicalite-1 Molecular Sieve: Coke-Resistant Catalyst for Alkane Dehydrogenation. Catal. Lett. 2019, 149, 974– 984,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-019-02671-4
Google Scholar
93Chen, G.; Liu, H.; Fadaeerayeni, S.; Shan, J.; Xing, A.; Cheng, J.; Wang, H.; Xiang, Y. Tuning the reactivity of ethylene oligomerization by HZSM-5 framework Alf proximity. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2020, 10, 4019– 4029,  DOI: 10.1039/d0cy00632g
Google Scholar
94Wang, T.; Chen, M.; Liu, X.; Zhang, Z.-G.; Xu, Y. Distinguishing external and internal coke depositions on micron-sized HZSM-5 via catalyst-assisted temperature-programmed oxidation. New J. Chem. 2019, 43, 13938– 13946,  DOI: 10.1039/c9nj02899d
Google Scholar
95Dipu, A. L.; Ohbuchi, S.; Nishikawa, Y.; Iguchi, S.; Ogihara, H.; Yamanaka, I. Direct Nonoxidative Conversion of Methane to Higher Hydrocarbons over Silica-Supported Nickel Phosphide Catalyst. ACS Catal. 2019, 10, 375– 379,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03955
Google Scholar
96Yuan, Y.; Lee, J. S.; Lobo, R. F. Ga+-Chabazite Zeolite: A Highly Selective Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 15079– 15092,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.2c03941
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
0
Mentioning
7
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 2 publications.
Yingbin Zheng, Junjie Li, Xinbao Zhang, Shaoguo Li, Jie An, Fucun Chen, Xiujie Li, Xiangxue Zhu. Evolution of Co Species in CO2-Assisted Ethane Dehydrogenation: Competing Cleavage of C–H and C–C Bonds. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (7) , 4749-4759. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.4c00324
Shaojia Song, Yuanqing Sun, Kun Yang, Yumeng Fo, Xiangyang Ji, Hui Su, Zhenxing Li, Chunming Xu, Guoyong Huang, Jian Liu, Weiyu Song. Recent Progress in Metal-Molecular Sieve Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6044-6067. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00816
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2023, 13, 3, 1830–1847
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05860
Published January 17, 2023
Copyright © 2023 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
3283
Altmetric
-
Citations
2
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Tricoordinated Single-Atom Cobalt in Zeolite Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation
March 25, 2024Journal of the American Chemical Society
Ziqiang Qu, Guangyuan He, Tianjun Zhang, Yaqi Fan, Yanxia Guo
Atomic Insight into the Local Structure and Microenvironment of Isolated Co-Motifs in MFI Zeolite Frameworks for Propane Dehydrogenation
June 28, 2022Journal of the American Chemical Society
Zhong-Pan Hu, Gangqiang Qin, Jingfeng Han, Wenna Zhang, 
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Supporting Info
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) XRD patterns, (b) SEM observations, (c) H2-TPR profiles, and (d) UV–vis spectra of fresh MFI zeolite, hydrothermally synthesized Co@MFI, and impregnated Co/MFI samples.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) HAADF-STEM observation and their corresponding element maps of 1, 6, and 15 wt % Co@MFI and 6 wt % Co/MFI catalysts; (b) Co 2p XPS spectra of Co/MFI, Co@MFI, and Co2SiO4; and (c) O 1s XPS spectra of Co@MFI, bulk Co3O4, and synthesized Co2SiO4.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Co K-edge XANES energy spectra and (b) corresponding FT k3-weighted EXAFS spectra of Co foil, CoO, and Co3O4 and 6 and 15 wt % Co@MFI samples; (c,d) wavelet transform plots of 6 wt % Co@MFI and 15 wt % Co@MFI catalysts.
Figure 4
Figure 4. EDH activity over hydrothermally synthesized 1–15 wt % Co@MFI, Co-impregnated 1–6 wt % Co/MFI, and 1 wt % Co/SiO2 at 600 °C, 0.1 MPa, 3000–6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%. (a,b) Time-on-stream ethane conversion profiles, (c) bar graph of average ethane conversions, and (d) bar graph of average selectivity in each test.
Figure 5
Figure 5. PDH activity over the 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst. (a) Time-on-stream propane conversion profiles at 500–600 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2 with and without H2 addition; (b) selectivity to various products at different temperatures; and (c) catalyst stability over 150 h at 550 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2 without H2 addition.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Time-dependent ethane conversion and (b) average conversion in bar over 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst at 3000 mL/g/h, ethane content of 20%, and various reaction temperatures (550–600 °C).
Figure 7
Figure 7. Average ethane conversion in a 5 h test over various hydrothermally synthesized catalysts for EDH at 600 °C, 0.1 MPa, 6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%.
Figure 8
Figure 8. C2H6-pulse experiments over various Co-based catalysts at 600 °C. A 0.10 g portion of the catalyst was heated in an Ar stream (30 mL/min) to 600 °C and kept there for 30 min to obtain a baseline for each mass signal; then, 1 mL of pure C2H6 was pulsed into the Ar stream with a fixed period. (a) H2 (m/z = 2). (b) CH4 (m/z = 16). (c) C2H6 (m/z = 30). (d) CO2 (m/z = 44).
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) DFT calculations on the relative dissociation energies of C–H and C–C bonds in C2H6 over Co4 cluster located on the external surface of MFI zeolite and in the zeolite channel, and Co(II) atom incorporated in the MFI framework; (b,c) electron charge density difference plots of incorporated Co1 in Co@MFI and Co4 clusters inside the MFI channel. The green and yellow colors indicate a decrease and increase in the electron density, respectively. Blue, red, and pink balls represent Si, O, and Co atoms, respectively.
Figure 10
Figure 10. (a) Propane conversion and (b) selectivity to propylene obtained with and without the 15 wt % Co@MFI catalyst for PDH at 550 and 600 °C, 3000 mL/g/h, and 20%C3H8/80%N2.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Characterization of spent catalyst samples collected from the EDH tests at 600 °C, 6000 mL/g/h (3000 mL/g/h for Co/MFI and Co/SiO2), and 90%C2H6/10%N2. (a) TG curves; (b) O2-TPO profiles; (c) SEM observations; (d) Raman spectra; and (e–g) XPS spectra.
Figure 12
Figure 12. H2-TPR profiles of (1) 10%O2-treated (550 °C for 2 h) spent 6 wt % Co@MFI samples collected from the EDH tests at 550–650 °C (related to Figure S7), (2) 10%H2-reduced (700 °C for 30 min) and then 10%O2-oxidized (550 °C for 60 min) 6 wt % Co@MFI sample without reaction, and (3) freshly impregnated 6 wt % Co/MFI for comparison.
Figure 13
Figure 13. (a) XRD patterns, (b) H2-TPR profiles, and (c,d) EDH activity (650 °C, 6000 mL/g/h, and ethane content of 90%) of P-modified 6 wt % Co@MFI catalysts.