<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The nature and distribution of Cr species in Cr-catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) were studied. A series of xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3 catalysts were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation. The catalysts were characterized by N2-physisorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD), UV-Raman spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEM-EDXS), and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XANES and EXAFS). At 1 wt% Cr, SBA-15 contains exclusively uniform distribution of chromium as isolated Cr(VI) species in tetrahedral coordination, whilst on γ-Al2O3 a fraction of oligomers (including dimers) is present along with isolated species. At 5 wt% Cr, SBA-15 is dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles, besides a fraction of isolated Cr(VI) species in coordination. Remarkably, γ-Al2O3 contains mainly oligomers with different degrees of nuclearity and a fraction of isolated species but no Cr2O3 particles. Among xCrSBA-15 catalysts, those containing exclusively isolated Cr species (i.e., 1 wt% Cr) exhibit higher activity and selectivity with respect to per mole of Cr than the catalyst dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles (5 wt% Cr). The intrinsic activity of these isolated Cr species is higher than those observed on γ-Al2O3 (1 wt% Cr). Interestingly, among xCrAl2O3, the catalysts dominated by oligomeric species show the highest activity, indicating the important role of the species in the reaction. In situ XAS studies evidence that active Cr sites are apparently generated on-site during the reaction and that Cr is typically in (III) oxidation state. Based on ex situ and in situ characterization results and catalytic data, it appears that the activity of the Cr species is different in xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3. For xCrSBA-15, isolated Cr(III) sites with coordination number greater than four are more active, selective, and stable than Cr sites on the surface of crystalline Cr2O3. In contrast, for xCrAl2O3, oligomeric Cr species are more active and selective than the isolated Cr sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了Cr催化剂中Cr物种的性质和分布对丙烷脱氢(DHP)的影响。通过浸渍法制备了一系列xCrSBA-15和xCrAl2O3催化剂。催化剂通过N2物理吸附、X射线衍射(XRD)、UV-Raman光谱、扫描透射电子显微镜-能量色散X射线光谱(STEM-EDXS)和X射线吸收光谱(XANES和EXAFS)进行表征。在1 wt% Cr时，SBA-15中Cr均匀分布，仅存在Cr(VI)的孤立物种，而在γ-Al2O3中，除了孤立物种外，还存在一部分寡聚物(包括二聚体)。在5 wt% Cr时，SBA-15主要由α-Cr2O3晶体粒子组成，除了Cr(VI)的孤立物种。值得注意的是，γ-Al2O3主要含有不同核度的寡聚物和一部分孤立物种，但没有Cr2O3粒子。在xCrSBA-15催化剂中，仅含孤立Cr物种(即1 wt% Cr)的催化剂在每摩尔Cr的活性和选择性方面高于以α-Cr2O3晶体粒子为主的催化剂(5 wt% Cr)。这些孤立Cr物种的内在活性高于在γ-Al2O3(1 wt% Cr)上观察到的活性。有趣的是，在xCrAl2O3中，以寡聚物种为主的催化剂表现出最高的活性，表明物种在反应中起着重要作用。原位XAS研究表明，活性Cr位点显然在反应过程中原位生成，Cr通常处于(III)氧化态。基于离线和原位表征结果以及催化数据，Cr物种在xCrSBA-15和xCrAl2O3中的活性不同。对于xCrSBA-15，具有大于四的配位数的孤立Cr(III)位点比Cr2O3表面的Cr位点更活跃、更具选择性和稳定性。相反，对于xCrAl2O3，寡聚Cr物种比孤立Cr位点更活跃和更具选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
