<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The nature of active chromium species in Cr-catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane: New insights by a comprehensive spectroscopic study. Dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) was studied over a series of xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3 catalysts, prepared by incipient wetness impregnation, to gain a better understanding of the nature and distribution of Cr species and their catalytic function. Among xCrSBA-15 catalysts, those containing exclusively isolated Cr species (i.e., 1 wt% Cr) exhibit higher activity and selectivity with respect to per mole of Cr than the catalyst dominated by crystalline α-Cr2O3 particles (5 wt% Cr). The intrinsic activity of these isolated Cr species is higher than those observed on γ-Al2O3 (1 wt% Cr). Interestingly, among xCrAl2O3, the catalysts dominated by oligomeric species show the highest activity, indicating the important role of the species in the reaction. In situ XAS studies evidence that active Cr sites are apparently generated on-site during the reaction and that Cr is typically in (III) oxidation state. Based on ex situ and in situ characterization results and catalytic data, it appears that the activity of the Cr species is different in xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3. For xCrSBA-15, isolated Cr(III) sites with coordination number greater than four are more active, selective and stable than Cr sites on the surface of crystalline Cr2O3. In contrast, for xCrAl2O3, oligomeric Cr species are more active and selective than the isolated Cr sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.铬催化剂中丙烷脱氢活性铬物种的性质：通过全面的光谱研究获得新的见解。通过原位湿性浸渍制备了一系列xCrSBA-15和xCrAl2O3催化剂，研究了丙烷脱氢(DHP)反应，以更好地理解Cr物种的性质、分布及其催化功能。在xCrSBA-15催化剂中，仅含孤立Cr物种(即1 wt% Cr)的催化剂在每摩尔Cr的活性和选择性方面高于以结晶α-Cr2O3颗粒(5 wt% Cr)为主的催化剂。这些孤立Cr物种的内在活性高于在γ-Al2O3(1 wt% Cr)上观察到的活性。有趣的是，在xCrAl2O3中，以寡聚物种为主的催化剂表现出最高的活性，表明该物种在反应中起着重要作用。原位XAS研究表明，活性Cr位点显然在反应过程中原位生成，Cr通常处于(III)氧化态。根据离线和在线表征结果以及催化数据，Cr物种在xCrSBA-15和xCrAl2O3中的活性似乎不同。对于xCrSBA-15，具有大于四的配位数的孤立Cr(III)位点比结晶Cr2O3表面的Cr位点更活跃、更具选择性和稳定性。相反，对于xCrAl2O3，寡聚Cr物种比孤立Cr位点更活跃和更具选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
