<quotes>

[1] "In this work, we show for the first time that carbonaceous material, coke, deposited during reaction over VOx/Al2O3 can act as an active catalyst in the non-oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane."
[2] "Carbon-based catalysts represent an important new class of potential catalysts for DH and ODH reactions."
[3] "The role of carbonaceous deposits in DH and ODH reactions has been the subject of extensive research."
[4] "In contrast to many other reaction systems however, in DH reactions polyaromatic coke deposits are not always directly implicated in catalyst deactivation."
[5] "That butadiene is not produced initially may be indicative of the formation of more active dehydrogenation sites in situ as the vanadia species undergo reduction through interaction with n-butane and coke builds up on the surface."
[6] "That the increase in butadiene production is not concomitant with a decrease in 1-butene selectivity suggests that the two products are formed from n-butane at different catalytic sites."
[7] "The chemical nature of carbonaceous material deposited on VOx/Al2O3 during n-butane dehydrogenation reactions at temperatures of 873 K and below has been the subject of previous investigations."
[8] "The nature of the deposited coke changes above this temperature."
[9] "The deposited carbon can therefore be considered conducting in nature and as such highly ordered, in agreement with THz-TDS studies."
[10] "The increase in the degree of graphitisation is further supported by TEM data."
[11] "At high reaction temperatures highly ordered, conducting networks of polyaromatic hydrocarbons encapsulate the catalyst particle."
[12] "In the high-temperature regime, where the coke consists of more extended and ordered carbon networks, very different catalytic behaviour is observed."
[13] "The initial carbon deposits are most likely formed through the catalytic action of VOx units breaking down butane molecules."
[14] "Further carbon formation therefore appears to have taken place upon the deposits."
[15] "These data therefore suggest the possibility that catalytic activity is provided by the carbonaceous deposits themselves."
[16] "As a consequence of the apparent structural similarity between high-temperature coke deposits and CNFs, it was decided to study the activity of CNFs towards n-butane DH."
[17] "After the initial induction period, during which coke is deposited on the surface of VOx/Al2O3 both catalytic systems show very similar behaviour."
[18] "Neither the CNFs nor the coked VOx/Al2O3 exhibit deactivation as a function of increasing exposure to n-butane."
[19] "While their role in the direct dehydrogenation of n-butane has not previously received attention, coked VOx/Al2O3 catalysts have previously been shown to exhibit slightly higher selectivity in the dehydrogenation of alkanes than as-prepared catalysts."
[20] "Increasing the selectivity of zeolite catalysts through carbon deposition is a strategy employed industrially in xylene isomerisation."
[21] "The activity of CNTs in the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane has recently been demonstrated."
[22] "The activity of coke deposits and other carbonaceous materials in the ODH of ethylbenzene is well established with the activity of these known since at least the 1970s."
[23] "In both cases, highly ordered materials represent excellent catalysts."
[24] "The phenomenon of carbonaceous deposits providing,or enhancing, catalytic activity is not restricted to DH or ODH reactions."
[25] "Carbonaceous deposits and related materials therefore show activity in a wide number of reactions."
[26] "The above-mentioned data clearly show that the dehydrogenation of n-butane can be added to the list of reactions in which carbonaceous materials can provide high activity and selectivity."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Carbonaceous materials, including coke deposits, have been shown to exhibit unexpected catalytic activity in alkane dehydrogenation reactions for the first time. This activity is attributed to the formation of more active dehydrogenation sites in situ as vanadia species undergo reduction through interaction with n-butane and coke builds up on the surface. The increase in butadiene production is not concomitant with a decrease in 1-butene selectivity, suggesting that the two products are formed from n-butane at different catalytic sites.
2.Carbon-based catalysts represent an important new class of potential catalysts for DH and ODH reactions. The role of carbonaceous deposits in DH and ODH reactions has been the subject of extensive research. In contrast to many other reaction systems, in DH reactions polyaromatic coke deposits are not always directly implicated in catalyst deactivation.
3.The chemical nature of carbonaceous material deposited on VOx/Al2O3 during n-butane dehydrogenation reactions at temperatures of 873 K and below has been the subject of previous investigations. The nature of the deposited coke changes above this temperature, becoming highly ordered and conducting in nature. The increase in the degree of graphitisation is further supported by TEM data. At high reaction temperatures, highly ordered, conducting networks of polyaromatic hydrocarbons encapsulate the catalyst particle.
4.In the high-temperature regime, where the coke consists of more extended and ordered carbon networks, very different catalytic behaviour is observed. The initial carbon deposits are most likely formed through the catalytic action of VOx units breaking down butane molecules. Further carbon formation therefore appears to have taken place upon the deposits. These data suggest the possibility that catalytic activity is provided by the carbonaceous deposits themselves.
5.As a consequence of the apparent structural similarity between high-temperature coke deposits and CNFs, it was decided to study the activity of CNFs towards n-butane DH. After the initial induction period, during which coke is deposited on the surface of VOx/Al2O3 both catalytic systems show very similar behaviour. Neither the CNFs nor the coked VOx/Al2O3 exhibit deactivation as a function of increasing exposure to n-butane.
6.While their role in the direct dehydrogenation of n-butane has not previously received attention, coked VOx/Al2O3 catalysts have previously been shown to exhibit slightly higher selectivity in the dehydrogenation of alkanes than as-prepared catalysts. Increasing the selectivity of zeolite catalysts through carbon deposition is a strategy employed industrially in xylene isomerisation. The activity of CNTs in the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane has recently been demonstrated. The activity of coke deposits and other carbonaceous materials in the ODH of ethylbenzene is well established with the activity of these known since at least the 1970s. In both cases, highly ordered materials represent excellent catalysts.
7.The phenomenon of carbonaceous deposits providing,or enhancing, catalytic activity is not restricted to DH or ODH reactions. Carbonaceous deposits and related materials therefore show activity in a wide number of reactions. The above-mentioned data clearly show that the dehydrogenation of n-butane can be added to the list of reactions in which carbonaceous materials can provide high activity and selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.碳质材料，包括焦炭沉积物，首次被证明在烷烃脱氢反应中表现出意外的催化活性。这种活性归因于在原位形成更活跃的脱氢位点，因为钒物种通过与n-丁烷的相互作用还原，焦炭在表面上积累。丁二烯的增加产量并不伴随1-丁烯选择性的降低，这表明这两种产物是从n-丁烷在不同的催化位点形成的。
2.基于碳的催化剂代表了一类重要的新型潜在DH和ODH反应催化剂。碳质沉积物在DH和ODH反应中的作用一直是广泛研究的主题。与其他许多反应系统不同，在DH反应中，多芳烃焦炭沉积物并不总是直接导致催化剂失活。
3.在873 K及以下温度下，VOx/Al2O3上沉积的碳质材料的化学性质一直是以前研究的主题。沉积焦炭的性质在超过这个温度时发生变化，成为高度有序和导电性质。TEM数据进一步支持了石墨化程度的增加。在高温下，高度有序、导电的多芳烃网络包裹催化剂颗粒。
4.在高温条件下，焦炭由更扩展和有序的碳网络组成，观察到非常不同的催化行为。最初的碳沉积物很可能通过VOx单元分解丁烷分子的催化作用形成。因此，似乎在沉积物上发生了进一步的碳形成。这些数据表明，催化活性可能由碳质沉积物本身提供。
5.由于高温焦炭沉积物与CNFs之间明显的结构相似性，决定研究CNFs对n-丁烷DH的活性。在最初的诱导期后，当焦炭沉积在VOx/Al2O3表面时，两个催化系统表现出非常相似的行为。无论是CNFs还是焦化的VOx/Al2O3，随着n-丁烷暴露的增加，都不会出现失活。
6.虽然焦化VOx/Al2O3催化剂在直接脱氢n-丁烷中的作用以前没有受到关注，但以前已经证明，焦化VOx/Al2O3催化剂在烷烃脱氢中的选择性略高于制备催化剂。通过碳沉积提高沸石催化剂的选择性是工业上在二甲苯异构化中采用的策略。最近已经证明了CNTs在n-丁烷氧化脱氢中的活性。自20世纪70年代以来，焦炭沉积物和其他碳质材料在乙苯ODH中的活性已经被认识。在两种情况下，高度有序的材料都是优秀的催化剂。
7.碳质沉积物提供或增强催化活性的现象不仅限于DH或ODH反应。因此，碳质沉积物和相关材料在广泛的反应中表现出活性。上述数据清楚地表明，n-丁烷的脱氢可以添加到碳质材料可以提供高活性和选择性的反应列表中。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
