<quotes>
Regular Article The Chemical State of Gallium in Working Alkane Dehydrocyclodimerization Catalysts. In situ Gallium K-Edge X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy Abstract Ga species in H-ZSM5 zeolites catalyze rate-limiting dehydrogenation steps during the conversion of alkanes to aromatics. Specifically, they promote the recombinative desorption of H-adatoms as H2 and thus inhibit undesired cracking reactions. Here, we describe studies of the physical and chemical state of Ga using in-situ X-ray absorption at the Ga K-edge.
Ga+3 species initially present in fresh catalysts reduce at temperatures below 770 K during hydrogen pretreatment or propane reactions. Reduced Ga is present in highly dispersed form without Ga nearest neighbors, probably as a monomeric hydride species coordinated to basic oxygens within zeolite channels. These hydride species are driven to release molecular hydrogen by the high surface hydrogen fugacities that develop during propane dehydrocyclodimerization on H-ZSM5. Reduced Ga species reoxidize to Ga+3 when samples are cooled to room temperature in flowing H2, suggesting that active forms of Ga exist only at reaction conditions. This work illustrates the critical need for in-situ techniques to establish the chemical form of catalytic sites and the misleading conclusions that can arise from the exclusive use of pre- and postreaction characterization to suggest the nature of the catatlytic sites.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The chemical state of gallium in working alkane dehydrocyclodimerization catalysts was studied using in-situ X-ray absorption at the Ga K-edge. Ga+3 species initially present in fresh catalysts reduce at temperatures below 770 K during hydrogen pretreatment or propane reactions. Reduced Ga is present in a highly dispersed form without Ga nearest neighbors, likely as a monomeric hydride species coordinated to basic oxygens within zeolite channels. These hydride species release molecular hydrogen due to high surface hydrogen fugacities during propane dehydrocyclodimerization on H-ZSM5. Reduced Ga species reoxidize to Ga+3 when samples are cooled to room temperature in flowing H2, indicating that active forms of Ga exist only at reaction conditions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在工作烷烃脱氢二聚催化剂中，通过在Ga K边进行原位X射线吸收研究了镓的化学状态。新鲜催化剂中的Ga+3物种在低于770 K的温度下，通过氢预处理或丙烷反应时会还原。还原的Ga以高度分散的形式存在，没有Ga近邻，可能是一种单体氢化物物种，在沸石通道内的基本氧原子上协调。这些氢化物物种由于在H-ZSM5上的丙烷脱氢二聚化过程中表面氢分压的升高而释放分子氢。当样品在流动的H2中冷却至室温时，还原的Ga物种重新氧化为Ga+3，表明只有在反应条件下才存在活性Ga形式。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
