<quotes>
The goal of these calculations is to document several aspects of the chemistry of oxides doped substitutionally with dopants whose valence is lower by one than the valence of the cation they substitute (LVD1). First, we extrapolate numerous computations (by us and by others) and propose that all LVD1 dopants substantially activate the oxygen atoms at the surface of any doped oxide.
Second, we extrapolate the present calculations to postulate that the adsorption of an electron donor (H or CH3, in the examples given here) on the surface of an oxide doped with an LVD1 counteracts the effect of the dopant. We call this a chemical compensation effect.
The reason for this chemical compensation effect can be understood as follows: having a lower valence than the cation it substitutes, an LVD creates a deficit of electrons in the surface. The oxygen atoms, which are very electrophilic, no longer bind as strongly to the doped surface and are therefore more inclined to react with adsorbates. Adsorbing an electron donor on the doped oxide heals (in full or in part) the electron deficit, increasing the strength of the oxygen bond to the oxide and making it less reactive. This crude picture is reinforced by the analysis of the partial density of states for all the systems studied here. The presence of an LVD on the surface produces a partially filled orbital in the valence band and the adsorption of a compensating electron donor fills this orbital, making the density of states of the compensated surface very similar to that of the undoped oxide. In the case of LaCeO2 the molecular orbital in question is delocalized and consists mainly of oxygen atomic orbitals. This is why doping with La equally affects the reactivity of all oxygen atoms in the supercell used for calculations.
We conclude this section by discussing the implications that our findings have for catalysis by oxides doped with LVD1s. The compensation effect proposed here introduces interesting complications in those reactions, catalyzed by an oxide doped with an LVD1, that involve the formation of electron-donating adsorbates (e.g., hydroxyls or organic radicals). Consider, for example, the activation of methane by an oxide catalyst doped with an LVD1. The presence of the LVD1 substantially increases the energy gained by the dissociative adsorption of methane. Assuming that the EvansPolanyi rules work for this case, this will lower the activation energy for breaking the CH bond and oxides doped with LVD1 should be better catalysts for methane activation than the undoped oxides. However, the dissociation produces H and CH3 bonded to the oxygen atoms of the surface, which act as compensating agents. If these two species are not removed promptly from the surface, their presence substantially lower the activity of the surface (by the chemical compensation effect) and they poison the catalyst. We may have a situation where the rate-limiting step is not the breaking of the CH bond but the removal of H and CH3 from the surface.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The lower valence of the dopants compared to the host cation creates an electron deficit at the surface, which affects the binding strength of oxygen atoms to the doped surface. Adsorbing an electron donor onto the doped oxide surface helps heal this electron deficit, thereby reducing the reactivity of the surface and potentially influencing the efficiency of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The presence of electron-donating species, like hydroxyls or organic radicals, complicates the catalytic process by introducing a chemical compensation effect, where the presence of these species counteracts the initial activation of the surface due to the dopant. This can lead to poisoning of the catalyst if the electron-donating species are not removed efficiently from the surface. The rate-limiting step in the catalytic process might shift from the breaking of the CH bond to the removal of the electron-donating species from the surface.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
铌氧化物的不同特性，包括它们的各种稳定形式和氧化态，影响它们作为NiO催化剂中乙烷氧化脱氢的掺杂剂的行为。与宿主阳离子相比，掺杂物较低的电荷值在表面创建了一个电子缺陷，这影响了表面氧原子与掺杂物的结合强度。在掺杂物表面上吸附电子供体有助于修复这个电子缺陷，从而降低表面活性，可能影响乙烷氧化脱氢的效率。存在的电子供体物种，如羟基或有机自由基，会复杂化催化过程，引入化学补偿效应，其中这些物种会抵消由于掺杂物而表面初始的激活作用。如果从表面上有效去除这些电子供体物种，则可能会导致催化剂中毒。催化过程中的限速步骤可能是从断裂CH键到从表面上去除电子供体物种。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
