I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Increasing the Number of Oxygen Vacancies on TiO2 by Doping with Iron Increases the Activity of Supported Gold for CO Oxidation Graphical Abstract Enhanced activity of gold supported on Fe-modified TiO2 as a catalyst in CO oxidation results from Fe-promoted formation of oxygen vacancies which activate O2 by forming superoxide species that react with CO adsorbed on gold clusters to form CO2 (see picture) according to studies by in situ Raman and X-ray spectroscopy and electron microscopy.
Abstract The addition of iron to high-area TiO2 (Degussa P25, a mixture of anatase and rutile) increases the number of oxygen defect sites that react with O2 to form peroxide and superoxide species. In the presence of gold nanoclusters on the TiO2 surface, the superoxide species become highly reactive, and the activity of the supported gold catalyst for CO oxidation is approximately twice that of the most active comparable catalysts described in the literature. Images of the catalyst obtained by scanning transmission electron microscopy combined with spectra of the catalyst measured in the working state (Raman, extended X-ray absorption fine structure, and X-ray absorption near-edge structure) indicate strong interactions of gold with the support and the presence of iron near the interfaces between the gold clusters and the TiO2 support. The high activity of the catalysts is attributed to the presence of defects in these sites that activate oxygen.
Introduction Since Haruta and co-workers demonstrated the high catalytic activity of gold nanoparticles for CO oxidation,1,2 the field of catalysis by gold has expanded to include a wide range of other reactions, exemplified by H2O2 synthesis,3 selective oxidation of alcohols, including polyols,4,5 chemically selective reduction of substituted aromatic nitro compounds,6 carboncarbon bond formation,7 hydrocarbon oxidation,8 and numerous others.
In their review, Bond and Thompson9 showed that the activity of supported gold catalysts is strongly influenced by the method of catalyst preparation and the pretreatment conditions. The effect of gold particle size is considered to be of paramount importance, but evidence indicates that, in catalytic CO oxidation, the support may also play an important role, either direct or indirect, in determining the activity and selectivity.12,916 An unresolved issue in the chemistry of gold-catalyzed oxidation is the mechanism of oxygen activation and supply, including the nature and location of its adsorption. Various models have been postulated to account for the role of oxygen; according to some authors,17,18 oxygen adsorption proceeds directly on gold atoms, whereas others19,20 propose that oxygen adsorption also occurs on the support, in particular at oxygen vacancies21,22 such as those on semiconductor materials, especially in the proximity of gold particles as a consequence of the Schottky junction.23 Mixed oxides have gained importance in several fields related to applied catalysis and energy conversion.24 They offer opportunities for tuning the material properties to create specific sites that influence catalytic activity. Among the many supports investigated in gold catalysis, TiO2 has drawn the most attention because of the excellent activities of the catalysts, as reported by numerous groups.1,2527 Modification of TiO2 by doping with various metals has been reported to improve its photocatalytic activity.28 The beneficial effect of the dopant is to increase the lifetime of the photocatalyst by modification of the electronic properties, by adding oxygen vacancies and changing the TiO2 structure.28 Recently, Shou etal.29 showed that the introduction of iron as a modifier of Au/TiO2 catalysts increases the activity and stability, but this material did not have appreciable activity at temperatures below 293K. In related work, Moreau and Bond30 prepared an iron-doped catalyst that, although it had improved stability in operation in a flow reactor, had an activity that was close to or slightly less than that of unmodified Au/TiO2.
Here we show that doping of TiO2 (Degussa P25, a mixture of anatase and rutile) with iron leads to an increase in the fraction of the rutile phase and a higher density of oxygen vacancies, which are involved in the activation of oxygen in CO oxidation catalysis.3133 Our results, which include characterization of the catalysts in the functioning state by X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES), extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), and Raman spectroscopy, combined with conventional testing in a once-through fixed-bed reactor, give evidence for the participation of surface oxygen species in the CO oxidation reaction.
Results and Discussion XRD and UV/Vis studies of formation of defect sites in iron-doped catalysts: Degussa TiO2 P25 (80% anatase, 20% rutile) was used to prepare the catalysts described in this work. The introduction of a small amount of Fe3+ into the TiO2 structure leads to replacement of Ti4+ with Fe3+ and promotes the formation of rutile, which, in principle, can stabilize a larger number of defects than pure anatase.26 As expected, the XRD pattern of the promoted sample (Figure1) showed that the ratio of rutile to anatase increased when Fe was introduced. Thus, we expect that substitution of Ti4+ by Fe3+ occurred in the framework and presumably also led to an increase in the number of surface vacancies.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint XRD patterns of TiO2 P25 and Fe-modified TiO2 P25. (Full circles indicate peaks of the rutile phase).
The UV/Vis spectra (Figure2) bolster the XRD results: the onset of the band-gap transition (at 418nm) is red-shifted relative to that of the undoped TiO2 (403nm). The shift can be related to the transfer of 3d electrons from Fe3+ ions to the conduction band of TiO2,34 consistent with the incorporation of Fe3+ into the titania matrix. Because a larger red shift was observed when gold was added to the samples (421nm), we infer that gold further increased the formation of defects.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint UV/Vis spectra of the supports and the Au/Fe-TiO2 catalyst.
STEM characterization of iron and gold distributions in Au/Fe-TiO2: To obtain additional information about the distribution of iron and gold, the catalysts were characterized by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). Both analytical results (energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, X-EDS) and structural information were obtained for the 1.5wt% Au/Fe-TiO2 sample. The large difference in atomic number between Au (Z=79) and the elements present in the support (Fe, Z=26; Ti, Z=22) allowed detection with high reliability of the gold nanoparticles in the catalysts in STEM high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) images. These images (Figure3) show gold particles that are evenly dispersed on the surfaces of the support crystallites, with diameters in the range of 150nm. In contrast, iron appears to be homogeneously distributed over all the support crystallites.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint STEM HAADF image of 1.5% Au/Fe-TiO2 catalyst. Bright spots correspond to Au particles (some of the smaller ones are indicated by arrows). Images on the right illustrate the three characteristic sizes of gold particle observed in this sample.
Analysis by STEM X-EDS with a 0.5nm electron probe gave evidence of only very weak Fe signals representing the support (Figure4). The aggregation of iron into particles can be ruled out on the basis of the STEM X-EDS data: X-EDS signals indicative of highly dispersed iron were evident, both for support locations not covered by gold clusters and those where gold particles were observed. An implication of these results is that iron was present near the interfaces between the gold particles and the support.
Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Left: STEM-HAADF image of the 1.5%Au/Fe-TiO2 catalyst. Right: STEM (0.5nm probe size) X-EDS spectra recorded at the locations indicated by arrows. Top and middle spectra were obtained for regions covered by gold particles. The bottom spectrum corresponds to an Au-free area. Cu peaks are not from the sample but attributed to the copper grid used to support the sample for STEM measurements.
Raman characterization of reactive oxygen species: Defects (oxygen vacancies) in the structures of TiO2 or CeO2x can participate in the activation of O2 by forming peroxides and superoxides.2833 In our case, the presence of reactive oxygen species was confirmed by Raman spectra of the catalyst in the functioning state. Characteristic Raman modes of TiO2 and Fe2O3 are shown in Figure5a. TiO2 is characterized by bands at 397, 513, and 636cm1, corresponding to B1g, A1g-B1g, and Eg modes representative of anatase; the band observed at 443cm1 is assigned to the Eg mode of rutile.35,36 Typically, the rutile phase is also characterized by a band at 612cm1 (A1g mode), but this is not evident in the spectra of our samples, probably, we infer, because it overlaps with the band at 636cm1 characteristic of anatase.
Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Raman spectra of a)TiO2 P25, Fe2O3, and Fe-modified TiO2 P25; b)TiO2 P25 and Fe-modified TiO2 P25 in the presence of O2.
The Raman spectrum of Fe2O3 includes bands at 216 and 284cm1, assigned to A1g modes, and at 400, 491, 601, and 648cm1, assigned to E1g vibrational modes of α-Fe2O3. The band at 1304cm1 is assigned to second harmonic vibrations of hematite.37 In the presence of O2, superoxide species are formed on TiO2 P25, but their density is greater when the TiO2 is modified with iron, as evidenced by the increased intensity of the band at 1123cm1 assigned to superoxides (Figure5b). Raman spectra of the sample in an O2 atmosphere show that the formation of activated oxygen species is favored on Au/Fe-TiO2 relative to either Au/TiO2 or Au/Fe2O3 (Figure6).
Figure 6 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Raman spectra of Au/TiO2, Au/Fe2O3, and Au/FeTiO2 in the presence of oxygen at 253K (30mLmin1).
The reactivity of the species on the surfaces of the various catalysts was investigated by bringing them into contact with flowing O2 (30mLmin1) for 30min followed by the introduction of a flowing CO+O2 mixture (30mLmin1) at 253K and atmospheric pressure. The spectra representing the Au/FeTiO2 catalyst at the beginning and end of the period of CO oxidation catalysis are shown in Figure7a. The fresh Au/Fe-TiO2 catalyst was represented by a Raman band at 1122cm1, assigned to η1-superoxide species, and a band at 969cm1, assigned to peroxide adspecies at one-electron defect sites.32 After contacting the sample with CO+O2, the bands at 1122 and 969cm1 disappeared.
Figure 7 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Raman spectra of Au/FeTiO2 (a) and Au/TiO2 (b) catalysts in O2 and CO+O2 atmospheres at 253K.
For comparison, the Raman spectrum of Au/TiO2 includes only a very small contribution attributed to superoxide species (Figure7b), and the reactivity of this species with CO was shown to be low. In contrast, Au/Fe2O3 did not form any detectable peroxide or superoxide species. Thus, the Raman data of the catalysts in reactive atmospheres demonstrate clearly that modification of TiO2 by addition of iron leads to an increase in the number of surface defects (in particular, oxygen vacancies), which, in the presence of O2, provide the catalyst with highly reactive surface oxygen species.
XANES and EXAFS characterization of functioning catalyst: All three Au/Fe-TiO2 samples (with Au loadings of 0.3, 1.5, and 3wt%) were characterized by XANES and EXAFS spectroscopy. The quality of the EXAFS data of the catalyst with the highest gold loading was good enough to generate reportable analysis results. Characterization was carried out under conditions of CO oxidation catalysis.
The XANES spectra provide qualitative information about the oxidation state of gold in the samples. The intensity of the white line (located at an energy approximately 34eV higher than the Au LIII edge) corresponds to the 2p3/2 to 5d transition; it is proportional to the density of unoccupied states. Gold(III) compounds usually exhibit a high-intensity white line because their d orbitals are only partially occupied. White-line intensities are lower in the XANES spectra of Au+ compounds and even lower in those of Au0 compounds. The shape and intensity of other XANES features characteristic of gold compounds, such as those at approximately 15, 25, and 50eV beyond the Au LIII edge, depend on the oxidation state of gold and the ligand environment.
Time-resolved XANES spectra (Figure8ac) indicate the presence of cationic gold in each of the three fresh catalysts, as indicated by the white line in the Au LIII near-edge region. Among the XANES spectra of the fresh catalysts, that of the sample with the highest gold loading (3wt%) has the highest white-line intensity.
Figure 8 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Time-resolved XANES spectra of samples with a)0.3%, b) 1.5, and c)3% Au during CO oxidation at 298K. A=normalized absorbance.
This result is consistent with the lack of a detectable AuAu contribution and the presence of an AuO contribution in the EXAFS spectrum of this sample (Table1). Two AuO shells were observed, at 2.03 and at 2.92Å, with coordination numbers of 2.3 and 0.9, respectively. The EXAFS data also indicate an AuTi contribution at 3.16Å with a coordination number of 0.4 (but the identification of this (weak) contribution is only tentative). Thus, all of these data indicate the presence of cationic gold without detectable zero-valent gold in this sample in the as-prepared state.
Table 1. EXAFS data of 3% Au/Fe-TiO2.
Sample treatment Shell[c]
N
R [Å]
103Δσ2 [Å2] E0 [eV] before reaction[a] AuOs
2.3
2.03
0.1
4.0
AuOl
0.9
2.82
0.8
3.9
AuTi
0.4
3.16
0.4
2.7
during reaction[b] AuAu
5.4
2.81
8.9
3.3
AuTi
0.1
3.32
0.4
2.4
[a]The k and r ranges for data analysis of this sample were Δk=3.9015.06Å1 and Δr=1.04.0Å. [b]The k and r ranges for data analysis of this sample were Δk=3.9015.24Å1 and Δr=1.04.0Å. [c]Subscripts s and l denote short and long, respectively.
The white-line intensities in XANES spectra of the fresh samples incorporating 0.3 and 1.5wt% Au are lower than that in the XANES spectrum of the fresh Au/Fe-TiO2 sample containing 3wt% Au, consistent with lower contents of cationic gold in the former samples. This comparison suggests that these samples initially contained mixtures of cationic and zero-valent gold.
The transient XANES data recorded after the flow of CO+O2 started (Figure8ac) show that the cationic gold was rapidly reduced to zero-valent gold under the conditions of catalytic CO oxidation. Evidence for this includes the decline in intensity of the white line and the changes in intensity and shape of the features at 15, 25, and 50eV beyond the edge. The samples incorporating 0.3 and 1.5wt% Au were apparently completely reduced and showed features of zero-valent gold within 5min on stream. However, it took 15min on stream to completely reduce the sample incorporating 3wt% Au, which initially showed features of only cationic gold. Similar observations have been reported for numerous other oxide-supported gold catalysts,39,40 including TiO2-supported gold catalysts.41 We emphasize 1)that the XANES data characterizing the working catalysts give evidence for zero-valent but not cationic gold in the working catalysts (although cationic gold was present initially), and 2) that these data were obtained at 298K (whereas the catalysis experiments with the conventional once-through flow reactor were carried out between 253 and 278K). Thus, the changes observed in the XANES experiments might have taken place more rapidly than in the conventional catalysis experiments. Because of the differences in temperature of the XANES and steady-state catalysis experiments, we infer that the conclusions based on XANES data characterizing the steady state catalysts may not pertain.
The EXAFS data of the catalyst containing 3wt% Au confirm the presence of zero-valent gold (gold clusters) after the start of the catalytic CO oxidation reaction. These clusters are indicated by an AuAu contribution that grew in while the sample was in contact with CO+O2; this contribution is characterized by a coordination number of 5.4 (Table1, corresponding to clusters of approximately 16 Au atoms each, on average, as determined by the model of Jentys42).
The growth of the gold clusters during catalytic CO oxidation was accompanied by the disappearance of the short AuO contribution in the EXAFS spectrum. This result is consistent with XANES evidence for the formation of zero-valent gold and the suggestion that most of the gold was zero-valent for most of the period on stream during catalysis. The EXAFS data of the functioning catalyst also indicate a small AuTi contribution, at 3.32Å, with a coordination number of 0.1 (Table1). This contribution is evidence of the metalsupport interface, but it is too small to allow any confident conclusion about the structure of this interface.
In summary, the EXAFS and XANES data demonstrate the presence of small gold clusters in the working catalyst at steady state, consistent with earlier EXAFS and XANES observations,38 and they are consistent with the inference that these clusters are part of the catalytically active species.
CO oxidation activity: The data characterizing the catalytic reaction allow comparison of our Au/Fe-TiO2 catalysts with the Au/TiO2 and Au/Fe2O3 catalysts supplied by the World Gold Council (WGC),43 which are recommended as standards for reference. Our catalysts containing 1.5 and 3wt% Au on Fe-TiO2 have activities significantly higher than those of the reference catalysts at 278K (Figure9). Because of its high activity, our Au/Fe-TiO2 catalyst with an Au loading of 1.5wt% was tested under conditions similar to those reported by Schth etal.27 for various 1% Au/TiO2 catalysts (at 253K). A catalyst with a loading of 1.5wt% Au was made to be comparable to a reported catalyst.27 Figure 9 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Specific rate of CO oxidation on supported gold catalysts. The reference catalysts 1.5% Au/TiO2 and 5% Au/Fe2O3 were supplied by the World Gold Council.47 Reaction conditions: molar ratio CO:air:He 0.2:19.8:80, with an inverse space velocity (W/F) of 94gcath; reaction temperature 278K.
The catalytic test results show that the 1.5% Au/TiO2-Fe catalyst is twice as active per gold atom as the most active Au/TiO2 catalyst reported by Schth etal.27 under similar reaction conditions (Table2, entries1 and 5). Our catalyst is also compared in Table2 with other Au/TiO2 catalysts reported to be highly active for CO oxidation.2,20,27 Our data show that the activities of these catalysts were all markedly lower than that of our Fe-doped Au/TiO2 (Table2).
Table 2. Comparison of activities of catalysts for CO oxidation at 253K.
Entry Catalyst GHSV[h1] Rate 106[molCOgcat1s1] Ref. 1 1% Au/TiO2 80000 5[a] 22 2
3.4% Au/TiO2
20000
3.5[a]
1 3 1% Au/TiO2 17000
3.7[a]
20 4
13.7% Au/TiO2
40000 5[a] 21 5
1.5% Au/FeTiO2
84000 10 this work [a]The activities for the literature catalysts were calculated from the activity graphs reported by the authors.
The enhanced activity of Au/Fe-TiO2 can be explained by a positive effect of iron doping, which we infer influenced the activity of the catalyst by increasing the interaction of the gold with the support (as evidenced by STEM) and generating defects where O2 can be activated by forming highly reactive oxygen species.
The combination of spectroscopic and catalyst-performance results offers a relatively complete picture of the working catalyst. Modification of the TiO2 by introduction of a small amount of iron (ca. 0.5wt%) leads to the substitution of Ti4+ ions by Fe3+ in the TiO2 structure and generates oxygen vacancies. The XRD and Raman data show that modification with iron promotes the formation of rutile, which has a higher tolerance for defects than anatase (Figures1 and 5a)26 (larger amounts of iron might be expected to lead to the formation of a surplus of oxygen vacancies that would be expected to combine to form extended defect structures similar to crystallographic shear planes26). The superior activity of gold supported on iron-modified TiO2 relative to Au/TiO2 could then be attributed to the presence of highly reactive oxygen species (specifically, η1-superoxide and peroxide adspecies) at one-electron defect sites, consistent with the Raman spectra of the working catalyst. These species were not observed on Au/Fe2O3 and were present in a much lower density in the unmodified Au/TiO2 catalyst.
Increasing the gold loading led to an increase in the intensity of the η1-superoxide Raman band at 1123cm1. Thus, a correlation was found between the rate of CO oxidation, the gold loading, and the relative intensity of the bands of the η1-superoxide species in these catalysts (Figure10). According to these results, the increased gold loading enhances the number of surface peroxide species and thus results in a higher rate of CO oxidation.
Figure 10 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Catalytic activity (stars) and Raman intensity I (squares) of the 1123cm1 band (η1-superoxide) as a function of the gold loading at 253K, GHSV=84000h1.
The EXAFS and XANES data showed the presence of cationic gold in the as-prepared catalyst samples, and these species were largely and rapidly reduced to zero-valent gold under catalytic reaction conditions; the resultant gold clusters were extremely small, and the data are consistent with the suggestion that they were the catalytically active species, or at least part of these species.
The EXAFS results indicate a strong interaction between the gold in these clusters and the support, as evidenced by the AuO contribution (and tentatively by the AuTi contribution). The AuO contributions beyond the bonding distance (Table1) indicate nonbonding interactions of the gold clusters with oxygen of the support surface.33 Earlier work with ceria-supported gold catalysts33 led to the suggestion that AuO contributions at longer distances might include Auperoxide and/or Ausuperoxide interactions, but the EXAFS data characterizing the samples reported in this work are not sufficient to support this suggestion.
In summary, our results indicate cooperation between gold and the Fe-TiO2 support that promotes the formation of reactive oxygen species (Figure11). We suggest that the CO molecules are adsorbed and activated on the gold clusters, as the oxygen vacancies generated by the presence of Fe3+ will activate molecular oxygen by forming superoxide species that interact with the adsorbed CO to form CO2. The enhanced activity of the catalysts prepared with the iron-modified TiO2 support is inferred to result from the promoting effect of iron in forming oxygen vacancies at the clustersupport interface, near which reactive intermediate oxygen species are generated.
Figure 11 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Schematic representation of CO oxidation catalyzed by gold on Fe-TiO2. CO is adsorbed on the gold, whereas the oxygen is supplied through the support as η1-superoxide and peroxide adspecies at one-electron defect sites to give CO2.
Conclusion The data reported here demonstrate a correlation between the catalytic activity of gold supported on iron-modified TiO2 and the density of reactive η1-superoxide and peroxide species at one-electron defect sites on the support. The formation of reactive oxygen species is promoted by the presence of iron cations in the TiO2 structure. The resulting catalyst has an activity for CO oxidation that in some cases is more than twice those of some of the most active TiO2-supported gold catalysts yet reported.2,2022 The possibility of modifying a support to increase the availability of reactive oxygen species such as peroxides is of quite general interest and may be expected to be useful in the design of novel catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for various oxidation reactions.
Experimental Section Catalyst preparation: Samples of TiO2 (Degussa P25, 10g, SBET=55m2g) were impregnated with a solution of 0.1715g of Fe(NO3)39H2O (Aldrich, 99.9% purity) in 10mL of H2O (milliQ). The slurry was stirred at 333K until all the liquid had evaporated, and then the solid was dried at 373K overnight and calcined at 673K in a static oven for 5h. The final Fe content was found to be 0.56wt% by atomic absorption analysis.
Gold was deposited out from a solution of HAuCl4 (Alfa Aesar), brought to pH9 by addition of 0.2M NaOH. The support was added and the pH adjusted to 9; the slurry was stirred at 343K for 1h while the pH was kept constant by addition of 0.2M NaOH. The catalyst was then collected by filtration, washed free of chlorine, and dried overnight in an oven at 373K.
X-ray diffraction: X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected by using a Philips XPert diffractometer equipped with a graphite monochromator, operating at 40kV and 45mA and employing nickel-filtered CuKα radiation (λ=0.1542nm).
UV/Vis spectroscopy: Diffuse-reflectance (DR) UV/Vis spectra were collected with a Cary 5 instrument equipped with a praying mantis attachment supplied by Herrick.
STEM: Characterization was carried out by means of Z-contrast imaging, generated by high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). By using an STEM detector with a large inner radius (a HAADF detector), electrons were collected that were not Bragg-scattered. Thus, the HAADF images show few if any diffraction effects, and their intensity is approximately proportional to Z2. This imaging technique is excellent for tomographic reconstruction, as it generates strong contrast that has a fully monotonic relationship with thickness.
The sample for examination by STEM was prepared by dispersing the catalyst powder in high-purity ethanol and then allowing a drop of the suspension to evaporate on a holey carbon film supported by a 300-mesh copper grid. Samples were then subjected to chemical microanalysis and annular dark-field imaging in a JEOL JEM-2010F STEM instrument operating at 200kV. The instrument was also fitted with a system for energy-dispersive X-ray (X-EDS) analysis.
Raman spectroscopy of working catalysts: Raman spectra were collected with a Renishaw inVia Raman spectrometer equipped with a Leica DMLM microscope and a 514nm Ar+ ion laser as excitation source. A ×50 objective of 8mm optical length was used to focus the depolarized laser beam on a spot of about 2μm in diameter, and the laser power at the sample was 16.0mW. Raman scattering was measured with a CCD array detector in the 1002000cm1 spectral region with a resolution of 2cm1. Each reported spectrum is the average of 20 scans, each with an exposure time of 10s.
Catalytic CO oxidation was conducted with samples in an in situ cell (Linkam Scientific, THMS 600). Gases were introduced into the cell by mass flow controllers at a total gas flow rate of 50mLmin1; experiments were carried out at temperatures between 298 and 133K with feeds of O2, He, and a reaction mixture containing 2.0vol% CO and 1.0vol% O2, balance He.
XANES and EXAFS spectroscopy: The experiments were done at beamline 2-3 at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory. A germanium 13-element detector was used to record the fluorescence signals. The cell enabled the collection of data with the sample in the presence of flowing CO and O2 under catalytic reaction conditions.47 Before the powder sample was loaded into the cell, it was weighed and mixed with inert boron nitride powder. The loaded cell was then aligned at the beamline, and XANES and EXAFS spectra were recorded. All the experiments were conducted with the samples at room temperature (ca. 298K).
We first recorded six EXAFS spectra of each sample in flowing helium (100mL(NTP)min1). Then, after the catalytic reaction started as the feed of CO+O2, (1.5vol% CO and 1.5vol% O2, balance He, total flow rate=100mL(NPT)min1) was introduced into the reactor/cell, XANES spectra were recorded repeatedly for at least half an hour to ensure that the spectrum was not changing. Then a sequence of another six EXAFS spectra was recorded for the sample under catalytic reaction conditions.
The EXAFS data were analyzed with a difference file technique by using the software XDAP.48,49 No attempt was made to account for the small atomic X-ray fine structure (as would be indicated by data obtained at low values of r, the distance from the absorber atom, Au), and the standard background subtraction technique was applied. Experimentally determined reference files prepared from EXAFS data representing materials of known structure45 and theoretically determined reference files calculated with the software FEFF 7.050 were used in the analysis (Table3).
Table 3. Crystallographic data of reference compounds and Fourier transform ranges used in the EXAFS analysis.[a]


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 