I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


This article was downloaded by: [University of Wyoming Libraries] On: 27 September 2013, At: 01:49 Publisher: Taylor & Francis Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered office: Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering Publication details, including instructions for authors and subscription information:http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20 A Critical Assessment of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane Sebastian Arndt a , Guillaume Laugel a , Sergey Levchenko b , Raimund Horn c , Manfred Baerns c , Matthias Scheffler b , Robert Schlgl c & Reinhard Schomcker a a Technical University Berlin, Department of Chemistry, Berlin, Germany b Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Theory Department, Berlin, Germany c Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Department of Inorganic Chemistry, Berlin, Germany Published online: 27 Oct 2011.
To cite this article: Sebastian Arndt , Guillaume Laugel , Sergey Levchenko , Raimund Horn , Manfred Baerns , Matthias Scheffler , Robert Schlgl & Reinhard Schomcker (2011) A Critical Assessment of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane, Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 53:4, 424-514, DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2011.613330 To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01614940.2011.613330
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Taylor & Francis makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of all the information (the Content) contained in the publications on our platform. However, Taylor & Francis,our agents, and our licensors make no representations or warranties whatsoever as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability for any purpose of the Content. Any opinions and views expressed in this publication are the opinions and views of the authors,and are not the views of or endorsed by Taylor & Francis. The accuracy of the Content should not be relied upon and should be independently verified with primary sources of information. Taylor and Francis shall not be liable for any losses, actions, claims,proceedings, demands, costs, expenses, damages, and other liabilities whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with, in relation to or arising out of the use of the Content.
This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any substantial or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing,systematic supply, or distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden. Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms- and-conditions Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 53:424514, 2011 Copyright  Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
ISSN: 0161-4940 print / 1520-5703 online
DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2011.613330
A Critical Assessment of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane Sebastian Arndt1, Guillaume Laugel1, Sergey Levchenko2, Raimund Horn3, Manfred Baerns3, Matthias Scheffler2, Robert Schlgl3, and Reinhard Schomcker1 1Technical University Berlin, Department of Chemistry, Berlin, Germany 2Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Theory Department, Berlin, Germany 3Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Department of Inorganic Chemistry, Berlin, Germany Li/MgO is one of the most frequently investigated catalysts for the oxidative coupling of methane. Besides catalytic testing, it is also a suitable system to perform surface science experiments and quantum chemical calculations, which is not possible for many other active catalysts. However, the real structure of Li/MgO, the nature of the active center and the structure - activity relationship remain unclear, despite all the research that has been done. The aim of this review is to summarize the available knowledge on Li/MgO to structure and accelerate and improve the ongoing work on this catalytic system.
Keywords Li/MgO, Oxidative coupling of methane, Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, OCM, ODH
1. INTRODUCTION
The resources of natural gas rival those of crude oil. The composition of nat- ural gas depends on its origin, but the main component is always methane.
Therefore, there is a large economical interest in making methane available as a carbon source for the chemical industry.
Received February 23, 2011; accepted July 26, 2011.
Address correspondence to Reinhard Schomcker, Technical University Berlin, Department of Chemistry, Strasse des 17. Juni 124, Berlin 10623, Germany. 424 Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 425 A direct way for the conversion of methane into value added products is the oxidative coupling (OCM) to ethane or ethylene. The overall pathway is shown in Reaction 1. This reaction has attracted a lot of attention since the funda- mental work of Keller and Bhasin and Hinsen and Baerns (1, 2). However,until now no economically viable process has been put into practice despite all efforts (36).
CH4 + 1/2O2 1/2C2H4 + H2O
(1) rH(800 C) = 139 kJ/mol rG(800 C) = 153 kJ/mol The coupling of methane without an oxidant is a highly endothermic reaction and due to thermodynamic constraint the conversion is limited.
By introducing an oxidizing agent, the process becomes exothermic and the thermodynamic restrictions can be overcome. However, from a thermody- namic point of view, the partial oxidation (Reaction 2) and the total oxidation (Reaction 3) are thermodynamically much more favored than the oxidative coupling of methane.
CH4 + 3/2O2 CO + 2H2O
(2) rH
(800 C) = 519 kJ/mol rG
(800 C) = 611 kJ/mol
CH4 + 2O2 CO2 + 2H2O
(3) rH
(800 C) = 801 kJ/mol rG
(800 C) = 801 kJ/mol To obtain reasonable yields of C2 hydrocarbons (C2H6 and C2H4), the reac- tion must be controlled kinetically. For this, suitable catalysts are necessary.
However, the known catalysts are not very active at low temperatures; thus,the reaction requires temperatures between 700900 C, which leads to low yields (due to consecutive COx formation) and severe catalyst deactivation (due to decomposition or sintering, caused by the high reaction temperatures).
In the past, the research strategy was often characterized by random test- ing of catalysts with a focus on maximization of the C2 yield. This strategy has Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 426 S. Arndt et al. not led to a final breakthrough with respect to high selectivity and yield of C2 hydrocarbons. Thus, studying only one catalytic system to understand the rea- sons for these limitations in detail is necessary. The outcome of this research may be the basis for further efforts in optimizing catalyst formulations and maximizing catalyst performance. At a later stage, high throughput testing of numerous different catalysts may be of advantage. A combinatorial approach could also be a suitable strategy to establish a structure activity relationship,as recently reported (7).
In the search for better catalysts, hundreds of materials have been tested. Li-doped MgO showed higher performance than most other materials.
Lunsford et al. were among the first to publish extensive details about this catalytic system (810). Li-doped MgO was and still is the object of intensive studies for several research groups. Studies on MgO doped with other alkali metals did not lead to better catalysts (1116).
In spite of all the research that has been done, many aspects remain unclear. As it will be outlined in this review, the active center, the maximum solubility of Li in the MgO lattice, the position and nature of Li in the MgO,the stability of the catalyst, and many other questions are still not answered,despite the substantial amount of literature published on this topic. Therefore,identifying the points that need further investigation is not easy. The aim of this article is to summarize the existing knowledge on Li/MgO and point out problems and unclarities that need further investigation.
Moreover, it is possible to perform quantum chemical studies and surface science experiments on Li-doped MgO, which is a rather difficult task for many other catalysts. Such studies will identify the role and importance of different surface species within the catalytic reaction pathway. This information will be used for the design of catalysts with better performance. A very important question is the presence of species that contribute to unselective reactions, that should be avoided.
This publication focuses on Li/MgO and where necessary on MgO. Further additives on Li/MgO are only discussed in Section 6. Engineering aspects are not within the scope of this publication, although a variety of reports exist dealing with the engineering aspects of Li/MgO (1727).
2.
PREPARATION OF LI/MGO CATALYSTS
The preparation of the Li/MgO catalyst is crucial for its performance and many different methods have been used as described below.
2.1.
Wet Impregnation In the first publications from the Lunsford group (810), a suspension of Li2CO3 in deionized H2O was added to MgO. The slurry was stirred and Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 427 heated until a thick paste remained, which was dried overnight at 140 C.
The obtained material was calcined for one to several hours at temperatures between 450 and 465 C under flow of O2.
Korf et al. synthesized Li/MgO via wet impregnation of MgO with an aque- ous solution of LiOH (28). The procedure was done under a stream of CO2 for some samples. Afterwards, the samples were dried at 140 C, calcined in air at various temperatures, and then crushed and sieved.
Matsuura et al. prepared Li/MgO via adding Li2O to a suspension of ultra fine crystalline MgO in C2H5OH, followed by drying at 78 C and calcination at 740 C for 4 h. The use of ultra fine crystalline MgO resulted in a catalyst with an exceptionally high activity for the OCM (29).
Choudhary and co-workers reported a highly stable Li/MgO, which showed no deactivation for 15 h on stream (temperature: 750 C; feed gas composi- tion: CH4:O2 = 4:1; flow rate: 85 ml/min) (30). This Li/MgO was prepared by impregnation of Mg(CH3COO)2 with aqueous Li(CH3COO) and subsequent calcination. The stability was attributed to the high content of CO2, which reduced the loss of Li and improved the resistance against sintering of the catalyst.
The Li precursor was reported to play an important role in the nature of the surface species and the development of the specific surface of the Li/MgO catalyst (3133). Also the precursors for MgO (which was either obtained by thermal decomposition of hydroxy carbonates or the precipitation of nitrates) had an influence on the Li/MgO, indicating a memory effect of the catalyst with regard to the MgO precursor.
Choudhary et al. studied the influence of the precursors for Li2O and MgO for the surface and catalytic properties of Li/MgO in more detail (34). They prepared the catalysts by thorough mixing of the precursor powders in deion- ized H2O. The precursors for Li were nitrate, ethanoate, and carbonate. For MgO, the precursors were nitrate, ethanoate, carbonate, oxide, and hydroxides (MgO from Mg(OH)2 was prepared using different Mg salts and precipitation agents). The amount of added water was just sufficient to form a thick paste.
Subsequent drying at 120 C for 4 h and calcination at 750 C for 6 h followed.The CH4 conversion, the C2 yield (C2H6 + C2H4), and the C2+ yield (C2H6 + C2H4 + higher hydrocarbons), comprising the formation of C2H6 and C2H4 for C2 and the formation of all hydrocarbons in the case of C2+, were reported for different temperatures, feed gas compositions, and gas flows. In Figure 1 the reported data as described in Tables 4 and 6 of reference (34) are plotted.
The precursors for Li2O and MgO had a strong effect on the surface area, the basicity, the CO2 content, and the catalytic performance, but a strong vari- ation of the catalytic results was not observed. However, a direct relationship between these factors could not be observed. In agreement with other groups, it was found that catalysts with a high CO2 content showed a better performance in the OCM.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 428 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 1: Left Part: The applied reaction conditions were 100 mg catalyst, CH4/O2 ratio 8.0,and a gas flow of 8.6 ml/min. The green circles were obtained at 650 C, the red squares at 750 C. The selectivity was calculated from the formula SC2+ = YC2+/XCH4. The plotted data are derived from Table 4 of (34). Variations cannot be observed. Right Part: The applied reaction conditions were 100 mg catalyst, temperature of 750 C, and a gas flow of 17.1 ml/min. The blue diamonds were obtained at a CH4 to O2 ratio of 3.0 and the black triangles at a CH4 to O2 ratio of 8.0. The selectivity was calculated from the formula SC2+ = YC2+/XCH4. The plotted data are taken from Table 6 of (34). Strong variations of the results can also not be observed (color figure available online).
Kuo and co-workers tried to increase the specific surface area of the Li/MgO via adding charcoal during the preparation (using a wet impreg- nation procedure of MgO with Li2CO3) and subsequent burning off during the calcination (35). Indeed, the result was that the addition of charcoal did increase the surface area and it also modified the morphology of the Li/MgO;however, no major improvement in terms of the yield was achieved.
2.2.
Molecular Mixing Lpez et al. prepared Li-doped MgO via a sol-gel method. They studied the effect of the pH value on the surface hydroxylation and characterized the prepared MgO (36). It was found that Li/MgO catalysts prepared via the sol-gel method had comparable activities to Li/MgO catalysts prepared by wet impregnation of commercial MgO, but significantly higher C2 selectivities (37, 38).
Trionfetti and co-workers showed that via sol-gel synthesis a high surface- area, nano-scale Li/MgO could be prepared, with low Li loadings (39, 40). This procedure limited the formation of separate Li phases, therefore, suppressing sintering and loss of surface area during thermal treatment. Furthermore, the Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 429 Figure 2: The preparation of heterobimetallic magnesium lithium alkoxide clusters, which are then thermally decomposed to Li/MgO. Changed Figure adapted from (43, 44). application of high temperatures to incorporate Li into the MgO lattice could be avoided. It was reported that it had a strongly improved activity for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of C3H8 compared to Li/MgO prepared via wet impregnation.
A co-precipitation procedure was described by Roussy and co-workers (41).
To an aqueous solution of Mg(NO3)2 and LiOH, oxalic acid was added until a pH of 2.2 was reached. The precipitate was obtained and dried at 120 C and calcined at 750 C under argon for 24 h. The catalytic performance was compared for the cases of classical and micro-wave heating, showing a high improvement of the selectivity in the case of micro-wave heating.
Chevalier et al. applied a surface organo-metallic approach for the prepara- tion of Li/MgO (42). The Li is introduced to the MgO surface via Li-neopentyl,as shown in Reaction 4.
Li-Neopentyl + MgSurface OH MgSurface O Li + Neopentyl H.
(4) In contrast to Lunsford, the applied preparation procedure led to a pre- cursor catalyst, which did not contain anions such as carbonate species. The prepared catalyst was more active but less selective towards the formation of C2 products than the Lunsford catalyst.
The group of Dreiss applied a single source precursors approach. They pre- pared magnesium alkoxide clusters, which were thermally decomposed. The substitution of a Mg atom for a Li atom in one corner of the cubane, led to the formation of Li/MgO (43, 44). A reaction scheme of the cubane synthe- sis is shown in Figure 2. The prepared material was characterized in detail;however, its catalytic performance is presently under investigation.
2.3.
Other Methods Berger et al. applied chemical vapor deposition (CVD) for the preparation of Li-doped MgO nanoparticles (45).
The addition of SiO2 to Li/MgO via hydrothermal treatment led to basic magnesium hydrosilicates. If the added amount of silica was not too large Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 430 S. Arndt et al.
(Si/MgO ratio of 0.0 to 1.2), the catalyst became more active and selective towards C2H4, however, the overall C2+ selectivity remained unchanged. The addition of SiO2 reduced the evaporation of Li and increased the specific surface area, which resulted in a more stable catalyst (46).
Sarkas and co-workers prepared unsupported nanocrystalline Li/MgO using an inert gas condensation-based smoke source and applied it in the oxidative coupling of methane (47). One sample showed total oxidation activ- ity already at 300 C, a temperature where conventional catalysts are still not active.
Choudhary et al. synthesized Li/MgO supported on commonly used sup- ports, such as Al2O3, ZrO2, HfO2, SiC, and SiO2 containing materials (48).
Conversion and selectivity were approximately reduced by a factor of 3,compared to unsupported Li/MgO. This observation was attributed to the reduction of the surface basicity, which could be an effect of a strong interac- tion of the supported material with the support. With Al2O3, SiO2, and ZrO2,the formation of mixed oxides containing Li or MgO was found, indicating that these materials are not suitable as inert carriers.
The gel-combustion technique, which was reported for Pt nanoparticles (49), was recently applied for the synthesis of Li-doped MgO (50). A series of different Li loadings was prepared by thermal ignition of the metal nitrates in a mixture of glycerol and ethanol, with subsequent calcination in argon or air at 800 C for 2 h. Detailed catalytic data was not reported, since the study was focused on the structure and morphology.
2.4.
Summary A variety of preparation procedures, including wet impregnation, sol- gel, and organometallic approaches, have been reported so far. The wet impregnation is by far the most applied procedure, used in more than 80% of the publications. Compared to this, other important procedures like co- precipitation, solid state reactions, mixed milling, or combustion synthesis are comparably underrepresented in the literature. Unfortunately, a direct com- parison of the catalytic performance of the differently synthesized materials is very difficult due to vastly varying testing conditions.
In studies on the active center, many publications follow the suggestions of Driscoll et al. that the active center is [Li+O] (10) (see also Section 5.4).
However, the main preparative route in these publications has been wet impregnation. In this approach, it is necessary to calcine at high temperatures to enable the Li to diffuse into the MgO. But this also accelerates side reactions,like evaporation of Li or carbonate formation and decomposition. Moreover,some publications applied rather low calcination temperatures. It remains unclear if these temperatures are sufficient for the diffusion of Li into the MgO.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 431 Other preparative routes, although they are more intricated and more sophisticated, should be more suitable for the preparation Li/MgO solid solu- tions and, therefore, of [Li+O]. Moreover, the molecular mixing should result in a catalyst that is less pronounced to a phase separation of Li- and Mg- containing phases. However, these preparation procedures have hardly been applied.
For wet impregnation, it was shown that the properties of the obtained catalyst (surface basicity, surface area, CO2 content, etc.) depend on the used precursors. A strong variation of the catalytic results was not observed and a correlation between the properties and the catalytic performance was not fond.
The realized studies on the preparation of Li/MgO could not reveal the essential factors determining the catalytic performance so far. A comparative study of differently prepared Li/MgO materials, applying the same reaction conditions for the catalytic tests, could therefore be useful.
3.
STRUCTURAL CHARACTERIZATION
3.1.
Basicity and Acidity The effect of the basicity and acidity on the OCM has already been the subject of discussion, including not only Li/MgO (51, 52) but also other OCM catalysts. However, as the following review shows, no consensus has been reached how basicitiy and acidity influence OCM performance, since there are different kinds of basic sites with different strength and there is no unambiguous correlation between the C2 selectivity and the basicity.
3.1.1.
Pure MgO Davydov and co-workers studied basic sites of various oxides used as cat- alysts in the oxidative coupling of methane via infrared spectroscopy (IR) of adsorbed molecules such as CO2 (53, 54). It was demonstrated that the basic sites can be titrated with CO2. The correlation between the spectral behavior of the carbonates and the strength allowed a discrimination between the dif- ferent sites. The presence and concentration of the strongest basic sites were reported to determine the catalytic activity.
Ku s et al. observed that both the presence or absence of impurities, such as Ca or Na, and the gas atmosphere during calcination also influenced surface basicity (55, 56).
Bailly and co-workers studied the nature of possible active sites of MgO by investigating the relationship between the thermodynamic Brnsted basicity and reactivity of basic sites (CH3OH deprotonation and conversion of 2-methyl-3-butyn-2-ol (MBOH)) (57). The relative distribution of low coor- dinated O2was varied via different preparative routes and measured via Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 432 S. Arndt et al. photoluminescence. Moreover, the hydroxylation of clean MgO surfaces and its influence on the Brnsted basicity were studied. Hydroxylated surfaces were found to be more reactive, although they had a lower deprotonation ability than clean surfaces. The specific reactivity of OH groups, compared to low coordinated O2, was found to be determined by the variable stability of the resulting alcoholate intermediates. As OH groups are poor Brnsted bases,the number of alcoholate species is lower on clean surfaces, however, these intermediates were less stabilized and therefore more reactive.Chizallet et al. used 1H Mas NMR (MASmagic angle spinning; NMR nuclear magnetic resonance) to distinguish between different OH groups that can exist on a defective MgO surface (58, 59). They found a clear correla- tion between the area of NMR signals below 0.7 ppm chemical shift and the conversion of 2-methylbut-3-yn-2-ol (MBOH) to acetone and acetylene as test reaction. As these NMR signals 0.7 ppm could be identified as hydroxyl groups coordinated to surface Mg2+ ions, these OLC-H sites (LClow coordi- nation), with L = 1, 2, were reported as active sites. DFT (Density Functional Theory) calculations showed that nucleophilicity of the OLC groups rather than basicity of the surface oxygen ions determines reactivity towards MBOH con- version. No statement was made whether the same holds for reactivity and/or selectivity in methane oxidative coupling.
3.1.2.
Li/MgO The surface basicity and acidity of MgO promoted with alkali metals (Li, Na, K, Rb, and Cs), prepared via impregnation, was compared with the cat- alytic performance of these materials (16). The surface properties strongly depended on the promoter and on the calcination temperature. The follow- ing order was found for the BET surface area after preparation: Li/MgO Na/MgO Rb/MgO K/MgO Cs/MgO. Acidic sites of different strengths were found, and basic sites were found to be broadly distributed and strongly influenced by the promoter. A correlation between the density of the strongly basic sites and the formation of C2 products per unit surface area was observed.In another study using other dopants (Li2O, Na2O, PbO, La2O3, MgCl2, CaCl2), the result was a significant increase in surface basicity, without sig- nificant correlation between basicity and C2 yield (60). This was considered as an indication that further factors play an important role for the catalytic performance.
The acid-base properties and the base-catalyzed elimination reaction of 2-propanol, giving either acetone or propylene, was studied for MgO and alkali- doped MgO by Dez et al. (61). The basic properties depended on the relative concentration of certain surface species (OH groups, for instance). The addi- tion of alkali metals, prepared via impregnation, increased the density of basic sites and also modified the strength. Dopants with a higher electron-donating Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 433 strength led to the formation of stronger basic sites. The activity in the test reaction also increased with an increasing base strength.
3.2.
Structure and Properties The known literature about the morphological aspects of OCM catalysts,among them Li/MgO, is summarized in detail in a book chapter of Martin and Mirodatos (62). The loss of Li, the phase organization of Li/MgO, and the influence of the surface area and the structure on the OCM is discussed. In the present review, the aspects are discussed in the following sections.
3.2.1.
Pure MgO Spoto and co-workers reviewed the research on the adsorption of CO on MgO, in the form of single crystals, films, and powders (63). CO was chosen as a test molecule because it can react with both Mg2+ and O2. Results obtained via IR and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) were considered in particular. However, the results of other techniques are described as well. It was shown that the gap between surface science experiments and powders, as typically used in catalysis, can be progressively bridged.
Choudhary and co-workers reported that the thermal decomposition of MgCO3 leads to MgO, which was highly active in the OCM (64). They found a strong influence of the preparation conditions on the thermal decomposition and the surface properties (surface area, total basicity, base strength distri- bution) (65, 66). That the surface properties of MgO, prepared from Mg(OH)2,also depends on the preparation and calcination conditions had been shown before (67).
Ardizzone et al. applied X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to study different precursors for MgO (68, 69). Different defects were characterized and considered to be responsible for the activation step of CH4 in the OCM. From the experimental data obtained at different temperatures, it had been shown that the chemical state and the basicity of MgO is a result of the competition of O2, hydrocarbon, and H2O for the different reactive surface sites.
Mellor and co-workers investigated the impact of the MgO structure on the heterolytic oxygen exchange with the surface (70). Either the particle size or the termination plane was varied. The exchange was independent of the particle size (particles with a (100) termination plane were used). The activity order of different planes was (111) or (110) mean surface planes > (100) > (111), indicating that low coordinated Mg2+O2pairs play a beneficial role.
3.2.2.
Li/MgO Kimble and Kolts showed in thermogravimetric studies with different phases of Li/MgO that Li is present as LiOH, if prepared from LiNO3 or as Li2CO3, if prepared from Li2CO3 (71). They reported, that the LiOH exposed Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 434 S. Arndt et al. to the reaction gas at 700 C was converted to Li2CO3. Treating MgO with the same conditions, it did not gain weight, suggesting that no change took place.
If treated at 775 C in a N2 atmosphere, Li2CO3/MgO showed a partial decom- position of the carbonate. The decomposition was completed at 900 C. Being exposed to the reaction mixture at 700 C, it was converted back to Li2CO3.
If H2O was added at 700 C, the quantity of carbonate seemed to decrease.
Kimble and Kolts assumed that in return the amount of hydroxides increased.
Cycles of carbonate formation and decomposition did not effect the activity as a catalyst. It was assumed that in the presence of a mixture of CO2 and H2O an equilibrium will be established, with carbonate as the predominant species (72). A loss of Li during the calcination of the Li/MgO was reported. The loss of Li from the catalyst at high temperatures under reaction conditions was also reported by Kimble and Kolts (73). Moreover, it was reported that the Li content was stabilized at approximately 1% when supported on CaO. That a limit for the maximum concentration of Li could exist, was underlined by these authors.
The chemistry of Li in Li/MgO during the OCM was investigated by Korf et al. (74). Their conlcusions were:
1.
Behavior of Li/MgO was found to depend strongly on the preparation procedure.
2.
Passing CO2 through the solution while impregnating MgO led to higher amounts of Li2CO3 and segregation of Li to the surface of the catalyst.
3.
The optimum loading of Li in the fresh catalyst was reported to be 24 wt%.
4.
The active site was formed on the surface by a gradual decomposition of Li2CO3 in the presence of O2. The absence of O2 had an adverse effect on the activity.
5.
The active sites were found to be unstable. The deactivation was due to a loss of Li, via evaporating of the volatile LiOH or the formation of Li2SiO3,from Li and the quartz glass material of the reactor. H2O in the feed had,therefore, an adverse effect.
6.
In hot spot areas, the loss of Li was reported to occur most rapidly.
7.
CO2 in the feed was found to lead to:a. reversible poisoning of the active site,b. but also to stabilization of the active site against deactivation.
8.
Measures for a stable catalyst points out that:a. equilibrium between Li2CO3 and LiOH is necessary, Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 435 b. periodic reversal of the flow direction improves the stability,c. application of an Al2O3 instead of a quartz glass reactor can improve the stability.
While investigating the reaction of CO2 during the oxidative coupling of methane, Galuszka found that a substantial amount of Li formed a carbonate,which was stable up to 800 C (75). The carbonate formation started at 400 C,as shown via Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), temperature programmed reaction (TPR), and temperature programmed desorption (TPD).
Interestingly, several hours of calcination at 800 C were necessary to remove the CO2 from the catalyst. There was no CO2 on pure MgO above 600 C, there- fore, chemisorbed CO2 on Li/MgO above 600 C had to be attributed to the Li.
Furthermore, different types of carbonates can be assumed, and they should have different properties and activities. However, the identification of surface species by IR has proven to be difficult (76, 77).
In the publication of Ito et al., the optimum loading of Li was reported to be 7 wt% (9). In a later discussion, it was noted that for achieving a monolayer of Li+ on MgO ca. 0.2 wt% Li is required, which is a relatively low loading (78). Therefore, Hutchings and co-workers reinvestigated the optimum loading of Li on MgO (79). They found that a sub-monolayer loading,i.e., the above-mentioned 0.2 wt% Li, enhances the activation of CH4 and the selectivity towards coupling products, indicating that the optimum loading of Li is much lower than reported in previous publications, e.g., 7 wt% reported by Ito et al. (9).
Hargreaves and co-workers investigated the morphology of Li/MgO and its relationship to catalytic performance (8083). For pure MgO, it was demonstrated that the morphology is an important factor for the catalytic per- formance in the oxidative coupling of methane. The addition of Li to MgO led to changes due to grain growth. It was concluded that corner and edge sites did not significantly contribute to the catalytic activity. A special bot- tom step site was suggested to be the active center. For Li/MgO, immobile dislocations were detected in the bulk of these grains. It was suggested that pinning of these dislocations by Li led to the formation of [Li+O], a fre- quently suggested candidate for the role of the active sites, as outlined in Section 5.4.
The results of Hargreaves et al. (8083) were confirmed via atomistic sim- ulation techniques by Lewis group (84). They also showed that the presence of Li increased the concentration of oxygen defects (in the form of [Li+O]) and promoted their segregation to surface sites. [Li+O] centers were reported to be trapped in low coordinated surface sites, which should lead to a modified activity. They assumed that the activity of pure, undoped MgO was the result of more complex surface defects.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 436 S. Arndt et al.
The relationship between surface morphology and reactivity was investi- gated by testing several differently prepared and well-characterized MgO and Li/MgO catalysts by the group of Lunsford (85). The comparison of the results showed that the surface area and the morphology did not have a significant impact on the OCM. However, small structural effects, which could have a strong catalytic impact, might have remained undetected.
Berger et al. observed the changes of the surface properties of MgO when small amounts of Li were introduced (45). It was found that the addition of only
0.2 at% Li to pure MgO decreased already the thermal stability of the resulting
material. After the Li segregated to the surface, it changed the spectroscopic properties significantly (e.g., IR fingerprint of active hydroxyls and hydrides,surface-trapped electrons, and adsorbed oxygen radicals). It was concluded that Li preferentially moves to surface sites associated with low coordinated ions and higher surface reactivity.
Choudhary et al. investigated MgO, Li/MgO, and MgO doped with other additives as catalysts for the oxidative coupling of methane (86). The doping with Li led to a severe sintering of the MgO and, therefore, to lower specific surface areas. The selectivity obtained with the doped material increased sig- nificantly. It was found that the C2 selectivity increased nearly linearly with the decrease of the specific surface area. The involvement of lattice oxygen of the catalysts was investigated in a pulsed micro-reactor (87). It was found that with increasing pulse number, in each pulse only CH4 was dosed to the reac- tor, the conversion of CH4 decreased sharply, and the C2 selectivity increased.
It was concluded that lattice oxygen was involved. The re-oxidation of the cat- alysts after the pulses, led to a decrease of the C2 selectivity as compared with fresh catalyst. The reason could be the formation of active chemisorbed species and/or restructuring of the catalyst surface.
Sinev et al. studied the redox properties of differing catalyst, among them Li/MgO (88). Based on the results, a new mechanism for the catalyst re- oxidation was suggested, viz. that under steady state, the re-oxidation can proceed via the oxidative dehydrogenation of surface OH groups.
Taniewski and co-workers oxidized C2H4 over Li/MgO without co-feeding of O2, to obtain information on the oxidation properties of Li/MgO (89). Since large amounts of CO and H2 were found, it was clearly demonstrated that Li/MgO exhibits a high oxygen mobility. After the reduction of the catalyst, it was possible to restore the activity by its re-oxidation with air. The results on the oxidation of C2H4 can also be used to draw conclusions about the fate of C2H4 in the post-catalytic zone, being still in the reactor.
Anderson and Norby analyzed the liquid phases in Li/MgO by means of thermoanalytical and electrical conductivity measurements and electron microscopy (90). The results indicated that the solubility of Li in MgO increases with increasing oxygen activity, which is also predicted by defect Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 437 theory. At 700 C and in a CO2-rich, oxidizing atmosphere, the solubility of Li in MgO was estimated to be in the order of magnitude of 0.1 mol%, respectively
0.02 wt%.
Pure MgO is a poor electronic conductor at low temperatures, however,doping with Li leads to p-type semiconductivity (91, 92). Norby and Anderson studied the electrical conductivity of sintered Li/MgO at different temper- atures (1200 C) and under different O2 partial pressures. The effect of H2O and CO2 was also investigated. It was found that Li dissolves in MgO,such that an Mg2+ is being substituted by Li+, forming a negative defect and increasing p-type conductivity, which was dominating at near atmospheric O2 partial pressures and high temperatures. Surface and/or grain boundary conductivity became important at intermediate temperatures (700
C),
which was also probably mainly due to p-type conductivity. It was observed that Li readily evaporated from the surface at high temperatures and that Si containing impurities reacted with Li/MgO forming non-conducting silicate phases. Under ambient pressures of H2O or H2, proton defects seemed to play a minor role (93).
When measuring the direct current (DC) conductivity of Li/MgO as a func- tion of H2O vapor and O2 partial pressure, Balint and Aika observed that proton species dominated the conductivity at low temperatures (400 C) (94),p-type conductivity dominated at high temperatures (800900 C), correspond- ing to the results of Norby and Anderson, which indicated a mixed conduction mechanism at intermediate temperatures (500700 C). A mechanism was proposed in which doping with Li leads to the formation of oxygen vacan- cies, which play an important role in the generation of Osites. These oxygen vacancies were believed to be blocked by hydrogen defects at low temperatures.
Balint and Aika investigated the defect sites formed when MgO was doped with Li or Ti (95). Pure MgO and Li/MgO always exhibited p-type conductivity,whereas Ti/MgO showed n-type conductivity. Doping with Li favored the for- mation of oxygen vacancies, while doping with Ti had the inverse effect. That showed that the defect structure of MgO can be controlled via doping. Tardo and co-workers also determined p-type semiconductor properties of Li/MgO single crystals (96).
For MgO and Li/MgO, the dependency of DC conductivity on the partial pressures of O2 and H2O was investigated at OCM temperature (97, 98). The DC conductivity of Li/MgO increased with increasing O2 pressures, indicat- ing a p-type conductivity of this material. The effect of H2O was stronger on MgO than on Li/MgO. A model for the defect generation due to H2O inclusion was proposed. Two different activation energies for DC conductivity were found, one at low temperatures (400600 C) the other at high tempera- tures (700900 C). Based on the pressure dependencies, different conductivity mechanisms were proposed. For the low temperature, an OH-vehicle mech- anism and at high temperature a p-type mechanism due to Odefects was Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 438 S. Arndt et al. proposed. TPD experiments showed the release of H2 above 600 C. Therefore,a mechanism with O-H bond rapture for the formation of Odefects in the high temperature region was proposed.
That the electronic semiconductor properties could be very important fea- tures of catalysts for the oxidative coupling of methane, has also been discussed in a review of Zhang and co-workers [5].
In 1971, Abraham and co-workers reported a variation of the carbon arc- fusion technique, which allowed them to grow highly pure MgO and CaO single crystals. This method was successfully applied for doping single crys- tals of MgO with a variety of different metals, Li for instance (99). Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) experiments with a variety of different alkali earth metals with alkaline doping indicated the formation of [Li+O] centers. Schirmer provided evidence using EPR, that the Li sub- stitutes an Mg in the MgO lattice (100). Electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) experiments supported this finding (101, 102). The formation of [Li+O] centers is favored by heavy electron irradiation and high tempera- ture quenching, which were stable at room temperature. However, γ -radiation resulted in the formation of these centers, but they were not stable at room temperature. EPR and ENDOR experiments revealed that the defects pro- duced via different ways had the same local configuration (101, 103). The irradiation with neutrons did not lead to stable [Li+O] centers (104). At high temperatures, a Li2O precipitate led to the formation of a so called micro- galaxy, i.e., a localized [Li+O]-rich environment in the neighborhood of the precipitate. Diffusion in the MgO crystal and replacement of Mg2+ or formation of vacancies followed (105). The formation of stable [Li+O] centers strongly depended on the surrounding atmosphere, the presence of O2 was inevitable for the thermal generation of the defects. The [Li+O] centers formed at higher temperatures were stable, however, the cooling procedure effected the sta- bility. When a slow cooling took place, the Li, which had diffused into the MgO crystal, diffused back into the more stable Li-precipitates (106). Since impurities, such as Fe and Cr, could not be avoided, the formation of [Li+O] centers was partly accompanied by a valence change of these metals (107).
Interestingly, the [Li+O] centers were also found in CaO (108). From the investigation of current-voltage characteristics, it was concluded, that at oxi- dizing temperatures the crystals of Li/MgO had a significant effect on the [Li+O] concentration and the electrical conductivity, thermal aging did not seem to have a significant effect on these features (109). For further informa- tion, the review of Chen and Abraham on trapped hole centers in alkali earth oxides is recommended (110).
The solubility of hydrogen or deuterium was reported to be much higher in Li/MgO than in pure MgO (104, 111). The mimimum temperature for a diffusion of deuterium in pure MgO was reported to be 1477 C, for Li/MgO the mimimum temperature was reported to be 527 C, the higher diffusivity Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 439 was attributed to the presence of Li2O precipitates (111, 112). Furthermore, it was observed that D2O adsorbs dissociatively on Li/MgO.
Matsuura et al. prepared Li/MgO using ultra fine crystaline MgO. A good correlation between the intensity of the photoluminescence signal (at λ = 450 nm) and the activity was found, also indicating that lower coordinated surface sites, which were formed through the incorporation of Li into the (111) plane of MgO, are playing a significant role (29, 113).
Padr et al. studied Li/MgO with different Li loadings with x-ray diffrac- tion (XRD), XPS, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in order to char- acterize the surface and the catalytic behavior (114). It was found that the catalytic behavior and the surface composition depend strongly on the Li load- ing. Furthermore, it was concluded that di-oxygen species, e.g., O 2 could be present at the surface and that a complex equilibrium between the surface oxygen species and the Ocenters exists.
Aritani and co-workers characterized Li/MgO by means of XRD, XPS, Mg K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and SEM techniques (115, 116). It was found that for low Li loadings (2.5 wt%), Li ions tended to stay in the near surface region. Furthermore, the surface Li tended to form separate phases, without a strong effect on the surface MgO structure. For higher Li loadings (7.5 wt%), the Li was also found in the bulk. An effect of Li incorporation in the bulk was the reduction of the MgO crystallinity. The Li-atomsbeing located in the near surface region and in the bulkhad an effect on the activity in the OCM. It was assumed that the near surface defects had a strong positive influence on the CH4 conversion, while the bulk defects positively influenced the C2 selectivity.
The surface morphology of Li/MgO was investigated via low temperature infrared spectroscopy of adsorbed CO by Trionfetti et al. (117). These authors demonstrated that the morphology and the defect structure was of great impor- tance in the oxidative dehydrogenation of C3H8. Step sites were unselective sites and the major feature on the surface of pure MgO. When the MgO was doped with Li, it tended to occupy the surface step sites and to replace Mg2+ (cf Figure 9). When the loading of Li was increased, the step sites were dec- orated with Li+ and oxygen vacancies, leading to a higher reactivity. Li/MgO prepared via sol gel, had higher amounts of incorporated Li and they showed a higher selectivity in the ODH of C3H8 and the cracking of propane.
Myrach and co-workers recently tried to elucidate the role of Li in MgO, by investigating two model systems: a MgO filmwith and without Li-doping on Mo(001) and powder samples prepared via calcination of the respective precursors in an O2-atmosphere (118). Their study mainly focused on the phys- ical properties. It was found, that at low concentrations of Li, it most probably incorporates into the MgO together with oxygen vacancies, changing the opti- cal properties of the system. Above 427 C, the segregation of Li towards the surface and the formation of irregular Li-enriched areas was observed. Above Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 440 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 3: Photon-emission spectra of 12 ML MgO/Mo(001) (black), after deposition of 1 ML Li (blue) and after annealing to 800 K (red). The radiation was stimulated by the injec- tion of 100 eV electrons at 1 nA current; (b) Emission spectra of 12 ML MgO/Mo(001) (black), a layered MgO-LixO-MgO film annealed to 500 K (blue) and a Li-doped MgO film annealed to 700 K (red). The arrow indicates Li D-transitions. The spectral parameters are identical to those for (a). Figure unchanged from (118). Myrach, P .; Nilius, N.; Levchenko, S.V .; Gonchar, A.; Risse, T.; Dinse, K.P .; Boatner, L.A.; Frandsen, W.; Horn, R.; Freund, H.J.; Schlgl,
R.; Scheffler, M. Temperature-Dependent Morphology, Magnetic and Optical Properties of Li-
Doped MgO. ChemCatChem. 2010, 2, 854862. Copyright Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co.
KGaA. Reproduced with permission (color figure available online). 777 C, Li desorbed from the MgO surface, leaving behind distinct defects. The Li was not completely removed by heating, very small amounts dissolve in the MgO, as indicated by different optical properties. The change of the optical properties is shown in Figure 3. The principle possibility to detect [Li+O] with EPR was demonstrated on Li/MgO single crystals from Oak Ridge National Laboratories. EPR signals that could be assigned to the [Li+O] center, pro- posed by Lunsford (10), which is often considered as the active center of this material (as outlined in Section 5.4), were found neither on the Li/MgO films nor in the powder samples. The possible reasons are absence, low concentra- tion, or electron tunneling from the Mo(001) support into the hole centers.
However, the results do not exclude the general possibility of the formation of [Li+O].
Recently, the preparation of Li/MgO from gel-combustion was reported (50). Combined studies with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and SEM were applied to characterize the structure and morphology. A hierarchical pore structure was found for samples with low loadings of Li. Calcination at 800 C changed the morphology from cubic via truncated octahedral to platelet morphologies, depending on the Li-loading. Indications were found that the Li enhances this transformation. Modifications in the primary morphology of the particles caused severe changes in the secondary structure. Edge-and-step structures and protrusions on flat terraces were found to be the two kinds of high-energy structures found in the micro-structure of the primary parti- cles. It was reported that a relation between the transformation from cubic to complex terminated particles and the catalytic function for the OCM existed.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 441
3.3.
Summary MgO itself is a basic material with various basic, low coordinated and defect sites. Doping with Li leads to a variety of modifications in the MgO structure, partly depending on the added amount of Li. Surface defects are induced, the surface area is reduced, and the spectroscopic properties and the morphology changes upon Li addition.
In Li/MgO single crystals, it was found that Li can replace an Mg in the MgO lattice, forming a [Li+O] defect, which was studied in detail by Abraham et al. However, other suggestions were also made. In the mechanism proposed by Balint and Aika, for instance, the Li is involved in the formation of oxygen vacancies, which play a role in the formation of O. A complex equilibrium between the different surface oxygen species exists, which is not yet fully understood.
However, the Li was found to be instable in the Li/MgO catalyst. The publications on the optimal Li-loading report very different amounts. There seems to be an agreement that Li tends to form separate phases or at least Li-enriched regions within the lattice.
The strong dependence of the presence of the different surface species on preparation and operation conditions results in a complex picture of the mechanism of OCM and the difficulty to derive clear structure-reactivity relation.
4.
CATALYTIC PERFORMANCE OF LI/MGO-BASED CATALYSTS
4.1.
Stability of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts Ito et al. prepared Li/MgO catalysts with Li loadings of 1 to 26 wt%. All these prepared materials showed a catalytic activity. They found that CH4 con- version and C2+ selectivity increased with increasing reaction temperature up to approximately 700 C (8, 9). After the catalytic tests, the specific surface area of Li/MgO was considerably lower than the specific surface area of pure MgO. A separate experiment with high and low surface area MgO (34 m2/g and 8 m2/g), respectively, showed comparable conversions of 16%, but different selectivities (5% and 29%). A deactivation experiment at 700 C with 7 wt % Li/MgO was conducted. The catalyst was stable, after approximately 15 to 32 h time on stream. However, the reaction conditions applied for this test were 1 g catalyst, 700 C, flow rate of 49.8 ml/min, and a feed gas composition of CH4:O2:He = 3:1:21.3, being highly diluted. Ito et al. proposed that C2H6 forms via the coupling of two CH3· radicals. It was also found that C2H4 was formed via the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6.
Mirodatos et al. studied the deactivation of MgO and Li/MgO in detail,together with chemical and morphological changes (119). Two kinds of Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 442 S. Arndt et al. sintering phenomena were found. At 727 C (the melting point of Li2CO3 is 720 C), the deactivation coincided with sintering of the solid, a loss of BET surface area (Brunauer, Emmett, Teller) and of Li. Nevertheless, at 634 C,the deactivation coincided only with a reduction of the BET surface area, a loss of Li was not found. The stability of the surface area depended on the temperature treatment (the surface collapsed above 727 C) and on the gas phase. In an O2 atmosphere, the surface was observed to be stable up to 634 C, it started sintering when it was in contact with the reaction gas mix- ture. The formation of Li2CO3 significantly reduced the stability of the MgO surface area, this was also shown for other dopants and other supports (120,121). Li2CO3 was held responsible for the formation of COx (122); the increase of the C2 selectivity with time on stream was, therefore, explained with the decomposition of Li2CO3.
Choudhary and co-workers reported a highly stable Li/MgO, which showed no deactivation for 15 h on stream (temperature: 750 C, 0.5 g catalyst, feed gas composition: CH4:O2 = 4:1, flow: 85.6 ml/min) (30). The catalyst was prepared via impregnation of Mg(CH3CO2)2 with aqueous Li(CH3CO2) and subsequent calcination. The stability was attributed to the high content of CO2 (deter- mined via heating the catalyst in a N2 flow), which reduced the loss of Li and improved the resistance against sintering of the catalyst.
In their study on the nature of the active site of Li/MgO, van Kasteren and co-workers compared the activity and deactivation of Li/MgO and Li2CO3 sup- ported on ZrO2 (123). In terms of activity, for a 7 wt% home made Li/MgO,an increase in O2 conversion and CH4 conversion is observed, until 16 h time on stream, followed by a steady deactivation. The Li content decreased con- tinuously throughout the experiment. For 0.2 wt% Li/MgO, deactivation and loss of Li were observed from the beginning. However, Li2CO3/ZrO2 suffered from a comparatively fast deactivation to nearly zero activity after approxi- mately 15 h time on stream. The working principle of the catalysts derived from these experiments is discussed in detail in Section 5.1. However, the increase in activity in the first hours times on stream has not been reported by other research groups, but the deactivation of the activity of Li/MgO has been reported.
The catalyst deactivated due to a loss of Li as volatile LiOH or as Li2SiO3,due to the fact that the laboratory reactors are made of quartz glass (123).
This result was confirmed by Korf and co-workers (28, 74). A consequence is,that the use of experimental equipment made of quartz glass had a negative effect on the stability of Li/MgO. Figure 4 shows the result of a deactivation experiment with and without quartz dilution. It is evident that without quartz,the deactivation process is strongly retarded. After the experiment done by Korf et al. (28), the Li content had fallen to 0.1 wt%, which is significantly lower than previously described by other authors (73, 119). The reason could be the higher reaction temperature.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 443 Figure 4: Aging experiments at TReaction Temperature = 800 C with Li/MgO (ca. 3.1 wt% Li) (TCalcination = 850 C), with and without quartz dilution. Figure unchanged from (28). Reprinted from, Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. Catal. Today 1988, 2 (5), 535545.
Copyright (1988), with permission from Elsevier via the Copyright Clearance Center.
Rapid deactivation of Li/MgO was observed by Korf et al. (124). They also showed that, if Li was still available, the catalyst could be regenerated by treat- ment with CO2 under reaction conditions. The deactivation could be avoided if CO2 was added to the reaction mixture in low concentrations. Furthermore,they concluded that CO2 temporarily poisoned the active site and simulta- neously stabilized it against deactivation; the selectivity was not affected by the CO2 addition (28, 124). The selectivity did not change much in their long- term experiments, therefore, the conclusion was that the nature of the active site had not changed much, but their number decreased. For Li/Nb/MgO, the prevention of deactivation by adding CO2 could not be observed (125).
Aigler and Lunsford studied the oxidative coupling of methane over MgO and Li/MgO monoliths (126). Pure MgO was more active but less selective for the formation of C2 products, than Li/MgO. This high activity of pure MgO was at least partly attributed to Ca2+ impurities, which were concentrated at the surface.
The addition of silica to Li/MgO via hydrothermal treatment led to basic magnesium hydrosilicates. If the added amount of silica was not too large, the catalyst became more active and selective towards C2H4, however, the overall C2+ selectivity remained unchanged. Furthermore, silica addition reduced the evaporation of Li and it increased the specific surface area, resulting in a more stable catalyst (46).
Roos and co-workers tested a series of different catalysts, MgO, Li/MgO (3.8% and 5.3% Li), Cu/MgO, Na/Al2O3, Ca/Al2O3, Bi/Al2O3, Mn/Al2O3, Pb/Al2O3, Na/Pb/Al2O3, Fe/Cr/Al2O3, Bi2Sn2O7, and SiC (127). The Li- and Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 444 S. Arndt et al.
Pb-containing materials seemed to have a superior catalytic performance compared to the other tested materials; and Li/MgO was found to be more stable than the Pb-containing ones.
Galuszka showed that carbonate-free Li/MgO initially showed a good activity, but it decreased after 20 min on stream. The deactivation, the appear- ance of CO2, and the disappearance of C2H4 coincided. Furthermore, he found that a substantial amount of Li formed carbonate, which was stable until
800 C (75).
Hutchings et al. compared O2 and O3 as an oxygen source for the OCM over Li/MgO (128). In their study, they observed that the catalysts steadily lost their activity because of sintering and recrystallization.
Perrichon and Durupty investigated the thermal stability of Li, Na, and K deposited on MgO, SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3 (121). It was found that on SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3 the alkali metals are rather stable, however, on MgO a loss of alkali metal was observed at calcination temperatures higher than 500 C.
This effect increased from Li to K at 800 C, showing that the loss of alkali met- als is not limited to Li. A reason for this could be that MgO is not able to form stable compounds, unlike SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3, which can form silicates,aluminates, and chromates. Supports impregnated with alkali metals always had a lower surface area; the temperature had no influence on this. This effect was explained with the formation of a conglomerate of alkali metal salt and support. Furthermore, it was assumed that the alkali metal phase, which was present at the interface between the support particles, underwent trans- formations, especially fusion during sintering. Therefore, it induced partial dissolution of the support and, thus, the growth of larger crystals.
Choudhary et al. observed the effect of doping MgO and Li/MgO with Mn, Cd, and Zn on the catalytic activity in the OCM. The addition of the dopants caused a severe sintering of the MgO, resulting in a decreased specific sur- face area, but the selectivity also significantly increased. It was found that the C2 selectivity increased nearly linearly with the decrease of the specific sur- face area. After 12 h time on stream, the conversion of CH4 of Li/MgO was approximately 35% (reaction conditions: feed gas composition CH4:O2:N2 =
2.3:1:10.4, temperature 780 C, flow 60 ml/min, and 0.2 ml catalyst). Doping
with Mn, Cd, and Zn led to a generally lower conversion, in the range of 2530%. However, the Li-promoted catalysts suffered from heavy sintering and deactivation during the catalytic experiments (86).
Al-Zahrani and co-workers studied the effect of CO2, steam and liquid water treatment, and the process conditions on the oxidative coupling of methane over Li/MgO (129131). It was shown that CO2 has not only a poi- soning effect on the formation rate of CO, CO2, and C2 products. However, the C2 selectivity remained unaffected. H2O in the feed enhanced the deactiva- tion rate. This is accelerated with increasing partial pressure of H2O. Small amounts of CO2 decreased the deactivation. The addition of liquid H2O into Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 445 the catalyst bed increased the CH4 conversion. Due to the water treatment,it was reported that the Li content decreased and the specific surface area increased. It was also shown that the catalyst lost Li, by deposition on the reactor walls.
Taniewski and co-workers did research on the effective utilization of the catalyst bed, which deactivated during the reaction (26). It was reported that a hot-spot area was the only working region of the bed and the place of catalyst aging. In a scaled-up laboratory reactor, it was shown that the deactivation could be attributed to a significant loss of Li, which led to the decrease of C2 selectivity. Changing the feed inlet locations made it possible to involve suc- cessive layers of catalyst in the reaction. Furthermore, transformations of the bed, prepared from fresh and deactivated Li/MgO, led to the transport of Li from the fresh catalyst (deactivation) to the deactivated catalyst (regenera- tion). However, other researchers reported that the highly mobile Li caused severe corrosion and loss of physical integrity in their reactors made from different materials (21, 22).
4.2.
Comparison of Catalytic Performance of Several Li/MgO Catalysts In Table 1, the different reaction conditions and catalytic results taken from different publications are presented. The applied reaction conditions vary significantly, often a large amount of inert dilutent was applied in the feed gas. The strong differences in the reaction conditions hinder a comparison of results, obtained by different research groups (132); no correlation can be observed in the obtained results due to the strong variation.
4.3.
Influence of Process Parameters The required minimum temperature for CH4 conversion is concordantly reported to be at approximately 600 C. The CH4 conversion and the C2 yield increase with increasing reaction temperature, reaching a maximum at ca. 750 to 800 C. However, since some authors reported Li/MgO to be an instable catalyst, the catalytic performance of different Li/MgO catalysts after several hours time on stream is questionable. Studies on this subject have not been published yet.
In 1994, Machocki showed that the OCM at temperatures below 700 C could be applied without the loss of effectiveness, via applying a much longer contact time. He showed that the required contact times were much longer than previously reported in the majority of publications. Therefore,an extended contact time could lead to lower reaction temperatures, i.e.,600 to 650 C, even for catalysts that are regarded to be suitable for the high temperature range (137).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 Table 1: Overview of the reaction conditions and catalytic performance taken from selected publications. Usually the C2 selectivity is reported, meaning the combined selectivity towards C2H6 and C2H4. However, in few publications the C2+ selectivity,which also takes higher hydrocarbons into account, is reported. The difference between C2 and C2+, which is usually small, has been neglected and reported as C2. The space time yield for the C2 products (STY) was calculated according to the formula STY = np/mcatalyst; if the catalyst was given as a volume, then this has been used.
No.
Catalyst Mass
CH4:O2:
Dilutent Temperature Flow rate
X CH4 [%]
X O2 [%] SC2 [%]
C2H6/
C2H4
STY
Comment Ref. 1 7 wt%
4.000 g 1.9:1:3.6
720 C
49.8 ml/min
37.5
n.s.
46.5
0.48
1.69 mol/h ×
kgcat
(8, 9) 2 7 wt%
0.800 g 2.1:1:17.5
700 C
55.2 ml/min
22.6
n.s.
56.7
2.37 mol/h ×
kgcat
(11) 3
4.8 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1 6.2
700 C
50.0 ml/min
14.6
n.s.
57.4
1.15 mol/h ×
kgcat After 10 h (85) 4
4.5 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1:6.2
700 C
50.0 ml/min
13 n.s.
58.9
1.05 mol/h ×
kgcat After 10 h (85) 5
5.5 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1:6.2
700 C
50.0 ml/min
20.3
n.s.
59.6
1.66 mol/h ×
kgcat After 10 h (85) 6
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
760 C
50.0 ml/min
37 n.s. 40
0.25
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
(42) 7
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
780 C
50.0 ml/min
37 n.s. 40
0.21
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
(42) 8
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
800 C
50.0 ml/min
37 n.s. 40
0.18
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
(42) 9
3.1 wt.
0.093 g 9.6:1:3.7
780 C
25.2 ml/min
13.3
100 73
0.72
47.21 mol/h ×
kgcat
(133) 10
0.63 wt. 2.000 g 5.5:1:5.5
750 C
25.2
100
41.9
1.00
(81, 83) 11 1 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 C
50.0 ml/min
38.5
94.8
49
0.52
189.49 mol/h
× kgcat
(29) 12 3 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 C
50.0 ml/min
38.3
91.4
55
0.51
211.59 mol/h
× kgcat
(29) 13 5 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 C
50.0 ml/min
30.4
68.4
54.1
0.54
165.20 mol/h
× kgcat
(29) 14 10 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 C
50.0 ml/min
16.1
43.4
56.2
0.61
90.89 mol/h ×
kgcat
(29) 446 Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 15 15 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 C
50.0 ml/min
5.8
12.8
54
0.67
31.46 mol/h ×
kgcat
(29) 16 Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 C
17.0 ml/min
28.7
n.s.
63.1
0.91
61.85 mol/h ×
kgcat Code A (34) 17 Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 C
17.0 ml/min
22.1
n.s.
59.7
1.25
45.06 mol/h ×
kgcat Code B (34) 18 Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 C
17.0 ml/min


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How have impurities and additives in oxide catalysts contributed to the unintentional use of doped oxide catalysts throughout the history of catalysis, and what implications does this historical perspective have for our current understanding of catalytic processes and the development of modern catalyst design?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 