<quotes>

[1] "The reactivity of the transition and noble metals (Cu, Ag and Au) is determined by the surface properties that determine the ability of metal atoms to make and break bonds [2]. Those surface properties include the surface d-band centre (1d),the degree of filling of the d-bands ( fd) and the coupling matrix elements between the adsorbate and the surface metal atoms [3]."

[2] "The basics of the framework can be explained in the following manner. The reactivity of surfaces is related to their ability to make chemical bonds. These bonds consist of a distribution of electrons over bonding and anti- bonding adsorbatesurface states involving the surface metal sp and d orbitals."

[3] "The modifications in d-band characteristics can be estimated through a correlation between the width of the surface d-band for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element (Vdd) that describes bonding interactions between an atom and its environment [6,11,12]."

[4] "If such an understanding can be established, then it would be possible to calculate d-band characteristics of any surface,including the effects of structure, alloying, etc., with dramatically reduced need for DFT calculations."

[5] "This would constitute a new and fast way of screening potential alloy surfaces that could even be extended to include many different surface structures for the purpose of identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties."

[6] "The model is then used to estimate the electronic structure of many different overlayer/host as well as surface impurity/host combi- nations and compared to the literature data."

[7] "Given the simplicity and the accuracy of the proposed d-band width formalism, we believe that the model presented here will be used as a first step towards predicting the reactivity of different surfaces and will serve as a main tool in many different applications involving transition metals."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The reactivity of transition and noble metals is determined by surface properties that influence the ability of metal atoms to form and break bonds. These properties include the surface d-band center, the degree of filling of the d-bands, and the coupling matrix elements between the adsorbate and the surface metal atoms. The reactivity of surfaces is related to their ability to form chemical bonds, which involve the distribution of electrons over bonding and anti-bonding adsorbate-surface states involving the surface metal sp and d orbitals. The modifications in d-band characteristics can be estimated through a correlation between the width of the surface d-band for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element that describes bonding interactions between an atom and its environment. If this understanding can be established, it would be possible to calculate d-band characteristics of any surface, including the effects of structure, alloying, etc., with dramatically reduced need for DFT calculations. This would constitute a new and fast way of screening potential alloy surfaces that could even be extended to include many different surface structures for the purpose of identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties. The model can be used to estimate the electronic structure of many different overlayer/host as well as surface impurity/host combinations. Given the simplicity and the accuracy of the proposed d-band width formalism, the model presented here will be used as a first step towards predicting the reactivity of different surfaces and will serve as a main tool in many different applications involving transition metals.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属和贵金属的反应性由决定金属原子形成和断裂键能力的表面性质决定。这些性质包括表面d带中心，d带的填充程度，以及吸附物和表面金属原子之间的耦合矩阵元素。表面的反应性与其形成化学键的能力有关，这些键涉及表面金属sp和d轨道参与的吸附物-表面状态中的电子分布。d带特性的变化可以通过过渡金属表面d带宽度与描述原子与其环境之间键合相互作用的原子间矩阵元素之间的相关性来估计。如果这种理解可以建立，那么就可以在大幅减少DFT计算需求的情况下计算任何表面的d带特性，包括结构，合金化等的影响。这将构成一种新的快速筛选潜在合金表面的方法，甚至可以扩展到包括许多不同的表面结构，以识别具有所需化学性质的表面。该模型可用于估计许多不同的覆盖层/基底以及表面杂质/基底组合的电子结构。鉴于所提出的d带宽度形式主义的简单性和准确性，这里提出的模型将作为预测不同表面反应性的第一步，并将在涉及过渡金属的许多不同应用中作为主要工具。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
