<quotes>

[1] "The reactivity of surfaces is related to their ability to make chemical bonds. These bonds consist of a distribution of electrons over bonding and anti- bonding adsorbatesurface states involving the surface metal sp and d orbitals."

[2] "The d-band model assumes that the variations between adsorbates and surface metal atoms are largely due to the variations in coupling of the metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals."

[3] "The modifications in d-band characteristics can be estimated through a correlation between the width of the surface d-band for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element (Vdd) that describes bonding interactions between an atom and its environment."

[4] "If such an understanding can be established, then it would be possible to calculate d-band characteristics of any surface,including the effects of structure, alloying, etc., with dramatically reduced need for DFT calculations."

[5] "This would constitute a new and fast way of screening potential alloy surfaces that could even be extended to include many different surface structures for the purpose of identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The reactivity of surfaces is related to their ability to form chemical bonds, which involves the distribution of electrons over bonding and anti-bonding adsorbate-surface states involving the surface metal sp and d orbitals. The variations in coupling of the metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals largely determine the differences between adsorbates and surface metal atoms. The modifications in d-band characteristics can be estimated through the correlation between the width of the surface d-band for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element (Vdd) that describes bonding interactions between an atom and its environment. If this understanding can be established, it would be possible to calculate the d-band characteristics of any surface, including the effects of structure, alloying, etc., with a dramatically reduced need for DFT calculations. This would constitute a new and fast way of screening potential alloy surfaces that could even be extended to include many different surface structures for the purpose of identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.表面的反应性与其形成化学键的能力有关，这涉及到表面金属sp和d轨道参与的吸附物-表面状态的电子分布。金属d态和吸附物轨道之间的耦合变化在很大程度上决定了吸附物和表面金属原子之间的差异。过渡金属表面d带宽度与描述原子与其环境之间键合相互作用的原子间矩阵元素(Vdd)之间的相关性可以估计d带特性的变化。如果能建立这种理解，就可以在很大程度上减少DFT计算的需要，计算任何表面的d带特性，包括结构、合金化等的影响。这将构成一种新的快速筛选潜在合金表面的方法，甚至可以扩展到包括许多不同的表面结构，以识别具有所需化学性质的表面。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
