I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Fabrication of h-BN/SiO2 Nanofibers Showing High Olefins Productivity in Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane Graphical Abstract Nanofiber Catalysis: Hexagonal boron nitride has been regarded as a potential inorganic nonmetallic catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Herein, a novel nanofiber catalyst consisting of hexagonal boron nitride/silica oxide (h-BN/SiO2) was prepared via electrospinning method, which exhibited remarkable 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 productivity of olefins in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
Abstract Fibrous nanomaterials have drawn considerable attention in the field of catalysis due to the promoted utilization of the surface and facilitated mass transfer process. In this study, we prepared one-dimensional nanofiber catalysts consisting of hexagonal boron nitride/silica oxide (h-BN/SiO2) via electrospinning method. The key is to prepare uniform sols consisting of exfoliated h-BN. The diameters of the nanofiber catalysts can be tuned in the range of 150300nm through h-BN loading change. When used in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the obtained nanofibrous catalysts exhibited a 12.4% conversion of propane and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with remarkable olefins productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, which is more than 5 times higher than that of bulk ODHP catalysts reported to date. This study shines light on the specific one-dimensional fibrous structure containing dispersed h-BN as well as a new strategy of preparing more efficient boron-based catalysts in the ODHP process. 1 Introduction The production process of propylene, which is one of the fundamental industrial products, has attracted much attention.1 Compared with the commercially used direct dehydrogenation route, oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative with non-equilibrium limitation and resistance to coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been widely studied for ODHP reaction in the past decades, which still faced with a great challenge of low propylene selectivity due to the over oxidation reaction.2-4 In recent years, the superior activity of h-BN in ODHP was demonstrated,2, 3, 5 which inspired a wave for the research of boron-based ODHP catalysts. Meanwhile, the active origin and reaction mechanism of h-BN in ODHP have been extensively studied. In the previous work,6, 7 based on various means of spectroscopy studies, we proposed the BOH at the edges and defects of h-BN as the active sites in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes by means of experimental and theoretical methods, which was subsequently confirmed by other groups.5, 6 Although the conventional bulk h-BN can activate the alkane, the utilization efficiency of h-BN is low due to the small number of exposed defects and BOH groups.10 Therefore, designing an applicable catalyst with abundant active sites is of crucial significance.
One-dimensional nanomaterials have attracted considerable attention for applications in catalysis because of their conducive to the transmission of substances and the potential for highly active site exposure.8, 9 Electrospinning is an effective and widely studied method to prepare one-dimensional nanomaterials and has been applied in many fields including biomedicine, energy storage, and catalysis.10-14 The chemical and physical properties of nanofibers prepared by the electrospinning method can be easily adjusted by changing conditions in the electrospinning process.13 Meanwhile, there is good interaction between the nanoparticles and the support in the nanocatalyst prepared by the electrospinning method to further ensure their activity, selectivity, and long-term stability.15, 16 Various materials were used as supports for one-dimensional catalysts prepared by electrospinning method, such as titanium dioxide, alumina, silica, etc. Among them, silica (SiO2) is regarded as a promising one due to its excellent thermal and chemical stability.17, 18 Moreover, the abundant OH groups of SiO2 support can promote the anchoring and dispersity of h-BN.19-24 Based on the above considerations, in this work, a new h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was prepared by the electrospinning method, which exhibited excellent activity, selectivity, and stability for the ODHP reaction, with remarkably high productivity of propylene. The morphology of the catalyst as well as the effect of the h-BN loading was investigated. 2 Results and Discussion
2.1 Design and structure characterization of h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers
Spinning solution is the key for fabricating nanofiber by electrospinning, which needs to have a certain viscosity and uniform dispersion.11 Herein, a mixture of PVA and TEOS aqueous solution containing exfoliated h-BN was used as the spinning solution (Figure1a). Particularly, the exfoliated h-BN via ball milling contained more defects and edge sites with abundant BOH groups,28 which facilitated the dispersion of h-BN in the aqueous solution.29 By diluting the spinning solution with deionized water, the Tyndall phenomenon was clearly observed under laser irradiation, further confirming that the exfoliated h-BN was homodispersed in the spinning solution.30 Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (a)Detail of the composition of spinning solution: (I)The exfoliated h-BN prepared by the ball milling process; (II)The SEM image of exfoliated h-BN; (III)The spinning solution (inset is the diluted spinning solution under laser irradiation). (b)As-made h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber with 5wt% h-BN loading prepared by the electrospinning method: (IV)The optical image of obtained nanofiber film; (V) The SEM image of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber (insets are the fiber diameter distributions and partial enlarged detail).
The obtained spinning solution was ejected from the needle at a certain rate through a syringe pump. Under the action of electric field force, the charged spinning solution breaks through its surface tension to form the Taylor cone. Then, with the solvent instantly evaporated, the dried h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber was collected on the aluminum foil. The obtained h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber exhibited a macroscopical film and fibrous microstructure (Figure1b). Besides, some knots were observed in the nanofiber structure, indicating that a few large sizes of particles were involved in the prepared nanofiber, consistent with SEM images of exfoliated h-BN. According to ICP-OES elemental analysis results for the dried spinning solution (the boron content was 0.45wt%) and nanofiber (the boron content was 0.46wt%) where the theoretical loading of h-BN in h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was 7wt%, a few large sizes of h-BN particles had no effect on the h-BN loading of nanofiber.
The nanofibers with varying h-BN loadings were prepared via the addition of different weight exfoliated h-BN. After calcination at 600C, similar fibrous morphology was observed from SEM images (Figure2ae). The average diameters were 155nm, 199nm, 220nm, 237nm, and 274nm for nanofiber catalysts with h-BN weight amounts of 0, 1, 3, 5, and 7wt%, respectively. Hence, the average diameter of the nanofibers increased with the h-BN amount increasing, which was attributed to the increase of the solution viscosity due to the inclusion of h-BN in the spinning solution.11 Typically, it was noteworthy that the average fiber diameter of the prepared nanofiber with 5wt% loading was 252nm (Figure1b), and decreased to 237nm after calcination (Figure2d), which was caused by the decomposition of PVA in the sample.31 Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (ae)SEM images of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts with different h-BN loadings (inset is the fiber diameter distributions). (fh)TEM and STEM-EDX mapping of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber with 7wt% h-BN theoretical loading.
The TEM and STEM-EDX mapping images of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst (Figure2fh) showed that the h-BN was uniformly dispersed on the dense SiO2 support. Meanwhile, the EDX data of the nanofiber catalyst recorded along with elemental analysis revealed the molar ratio of O to Si was a little higher than 2, which was in agreement with the stoichiometric ratio in SiO2 while the additional oxygen came from h-BN. Moreover, the ratio of B and N was higher than 1, because the ball milling and calcination processes made h-BN produce more BOH groups at the edges and defects.28 The chemical structure of the prepared nanofiber catalysts before and after calcination was investigated by FT-IR spectroscopy (Figure3a). The band observed at 3412cm1 for the uncalcined nanofiber catalyst was attributed to the stretching vibrations of SiOH32 or BOH33 bond, and band at 1210cm1 was ascribed to the stretching vibration of BO bond.10 Due to the interference of the stretching vibrations of SiOH group, it was difficult to confirm the BOH in the nanofiber catalyst. However, the presence of BOH33 (3394cm1) was observed for the exfoliated h-BN by ball-milling (Figure3b). According to the above experimental results, we speculated that the existence of BOH species over the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst. Observed absorption band at 950cm1 for the uncalcined catalyst was attributed to the bending vibration of SiOH34 bond. After calcination, the band weakened considerably. The band centered at 1710cm1 was assigned to the stretching vibration peak of C=O, which disappeared after calcination, indicating that organics were effectively removed after calcination.35 The bands positioned around 1120 and 1078cm1 corresponded to the stretching vibration of SiO,34 Meanwhile, The bands at 1398 and 811cm1 were ascribed to the in-plane BN stretching vibrations and out-of-plane BNB bending vibrations of h-BN respectively,36 suggesting the existence of h-BN in the prepared nanofiber catalysts.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint FT-IR spectra of (a)calcined nanofibers with different h-BN loadings and one representative nanofiber with 3wt% h-BN loading before calcination, (b)exfoliated h-BN and commercial h-BN; (c)XRD patterns of calcined nanofibers with different h-BN loadings.
The XRD patterns of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts with different h-BN loadings were shown in Figure3c. The broad diffraction peak around 22.6 suggested the SiO2 in the nanofibers exhibited amorphous phase.25 Meanwhile, the characteristic diffraction peak at 2θ of 26.8 for the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was corresponding to the (002) crystal planes of h-BN.37 The presence of h-BN has no effect on the amorphous structure of the SiO2.
2.2 Catalytic performance
The catalytic performance of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst with different h-BN loadings in the ODHP reaction was investigated. The propane conversion increased with the reaction temperature increasing, typically, as the temperature increased from 480 to 510C, the propane conversion of h-BN (7wt%)/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst increased from 3.6% to 22.2% (Figure4a). As comparison, a blank experiment was conducted with the pure SiO2 nanofiber catalyst under the same reaction conditions, which showed a poor activity performance, with only 2.5% C3H8 conversion at 510C. Moreover, the selectivity towards light olefins (propylene+ethene) over h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts all remained above 90%. However, it was noteworthy that the selectivity for the unwanted deep-oxidized CO2 product reached 10.2% at 500C for the pure SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, but 1.1% at 500C for h-BN (7wt%)/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst (Figure4b). Thus, it clearly indicated that the activity of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts originates from the h-BN. The h-BN loading had a noticeable effect on the C3H8 conversion, with the h-BN loading increasing, the conversion of propane increased linearly, which proved that the conversion was not limited by the molecular diffusion.38 Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Catalytic activity of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts with different h-BN loadings: (a)Influence of temperature on the propane conversion, (b)propane conversion and products distribution. Reaction conditions: 500C; gas feed, 16.7vol% C3H8, 25.0vol% O2, 58.3vol% N2; total flow rate=12mL/min.
To illustrate the role of the one-dimensional structure of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst on the activity, a controlled experiment was performed by using exfoliated h-BN powder as catalyst. The exfoliated h-BN powder was diluted with quartz sand to ensure the total bed height and the weight of h-BN was the same as h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst. Under the same reaction conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst clearly showed higher propane conversion than the bulk h-BN catalyst in the ODHP reaction (Figure5a). For example, under the same reaction temperature of 500C, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst reached the conversion of 12.2%, while the bulk h-BN catalyst only showed a conversion of 7.1%. The higher activity for the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was mainly because that the one-dimensional structure facilitated active site exposure, participating in the catalysis and achieving a higher conversion. These results were consistent with the previous research phenomenon of the oxidation and dehydrogenation of alkanes by the bulk h-BN catalysts reported by our group,4, 35 indicating that the catalytic properties of h-BN remained after loaded on SiO2. The catalyst stability was evaluated through a time-on-stream experiment performed at 500C and the result was shown in Figure5b. The conversion of propane stabilized at 13%, with the selectivity of propylene and ethylene stabilized at 84% and 7% during the 500min test. Moreover, the weight of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst remained unchanged after 500min reaction. Combining with the stability test results, it was concluded that the stability of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was superior, which was probably attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect.40 Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (a)Influence of temperature on the propane conversion over h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst with 7wt% h-BN loading and bulk h-BN catalyst. (b)Catalytic stability test at 500C over h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst with 7wt% h-BN loading; Reaction conditions: gas feed, 16.7vol% C3H8, 25.0vol% O2, 58.3vol% N2; flow rate 12mL/min.
One of the most important requirements for commercially attractive ODHP catalysts is their ability to achieve a high productivity of olefins.41 The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibited a productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 under 500C at a space velocity of 48000mlgcat1h1. This value was remarkably higher than that of the bulk h-BN catalyst and most reported boron-based catalysts (Table1) used in the ODHP reaction. It revealed that the one-dimensional h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst with well-dispersed h-BN exhibited better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, possibly because it enhanced the mass transfer to allow the active sites easily exposed.13 Table 1. Summary of the catalytic performance over BN catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
Catalysts Temp. [C] GHSV [mlgcat1h1] Conv. [%] Olefins Sel. [%] Productivity [golefinsgBN1h1] Ref. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber 500 48000
13.9
91.8
24.9
This work h-BN 490 8000
14.0
88.0
0.5
5
BNNT
490 60000
16.5
81.2
3.7
5 Hydroxylated BN 520 115000
12.2
96.1
4.8
6 High surface area BN 450 12000
15.0
79.8
0.03
39 h-BN/cordierite 535 6048
14.0
93.3
15.5
23 BN/Nanosilica 490 3600
25.5
78.0
8.7
40 3 Conclusion In summary, a novel one-dimensional h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst has been prepared by a feasible and easy-to-use electrospinning method. The nanofiber catalysts with different h-BN loading showed excellent catalytic performance in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane due to the one-dimensional structure and evenly dispersion of h-BN in the support, as evidenced by high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity. Meanwhile, the olefins productivity over h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst was much higher than reported boron nitride-based catalysts. This study provides a new strategy for effectively dispersing h-BN to enhance the space utilization of h-BN and olefins productivity and prepare more efficient boron-based catalysts in the future.
Experimental Section Materials Tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Polypropylene alcohol-1788 (PVA), hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), and oxalic acid dihydrate were supplied by Shanghai Aladdin Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd. The above materials and chemical reagents were directly used in the experiment without further processing and purification.
Preparation of h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst The bulk h-BN was exfoliated by the high-speed ball milling method.36 In brief, 4g of h-BN was added inside a zirconia milling container with the planetary ball mill (Pulverisette 7 plus, Fritsch) at a rotation speed of 800rpm for 15min. After washing treatment, the obtained powders were centrifuged at 3000rpm for 5min and dried at 50C. The spinning solution was prepared as follows: first, TEOS and oxalic acid dihydrate was added into deionized water and stirred at room temperature for 4hours. Then the various amount of exfoliated h-BN (0, 1, 3, 5, 7wt% of the mass of SiO2) was added into the hydrolyzed TEOS and stirred for 4hours at room temperature. Secondly, the dissolution of PVA: a certain amount of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) was added into deionized water and stirred at 60C for 4hours, and then cooling down to room temperature. Finally, the TEOS solution containing h-BN was added to the PVA solution and stirred at room temperature for 3hours, and kept at room temperature for 15hours. The homogeneous solution was typically extruded through a stainless-steel nozzle with a diameter of 0.41mm at a constant flow rate of 1.0mlh1. The aluminum foil plate was used for receiving. The distance between the plate and the needle was 16cm. A DC voltage of 17kV was applied. The ambient temperature was about 30C, and the humidity was below 10%. The collected electrospun nanofibers were calcinated from room temperature to 600C with the rate of 4Cmin1 and stayed at 600C for 2h.
Catalyst characterization The scanning electron microscope (SEM) was taken using the Hitachi SU8220 instrument. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) image was obtained on an FEI Tecnai F30 high-resolution microscope, under 300kV acceleration voltage, the sample was ground into a powder and dispersed in ethanol, and then on the porous carbon film on the copper grid. X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) measurement was carried on a PANalytical XPert3 powder diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (λ=0.15406nm). The tube voltage and the current were 40kV and 40mA. Infrared (IR) spectra were obtained by Nicolet 6700 Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer using mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector. The actual boron content of the dried spinning solution and nanofiber collected from the tin plate were measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) on Optima2000DV.
Catalytic test The propane oxidative dehydrogenation reaction was conducted on a fixed bed reactor equipped with a quartz tube.15mg of catalyst was put into a quartz reaction tube. The upper and lower ends were fixed with quartz wool. Before the reaction, the catalyst was pre-activated for 3hours under the reaction gas atmosphere (C3H8: 2mL/min, O2: 3mL/min, N2: 7mL/min) at 535C. The reactants and products were analyzed by an online gas chromatograph (Techcomp, GC 7900). A GDX-102 and molecular sieve 5A column, connected to a TCD were used to analyze the O2, N2, C3H8, C3H6, C2H4, CH4, CO, and CO2. The conversion rate and products selectivity are calculated using the methods proposed in our previous work.22, 35 Typically, conversion and selectivity were defined as follow [Eq.(1) and Eq.2]:(1) (2) The carbon balance was checked by comparing the number of moles of carbon in the outlet stream to the number of moles of carbon in the feed. Under our typical evaluating conditions, the carbon balance was within 100%5%.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 