<quotes>

[1] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by facile formation and interconversion of a number of crystal- line V(IV) and V(V) phases, and this has led to some confusion in the literature as to the nature of the active phase.23 In the PVO system, there are many synthesis variables that affect the solid-state chemistry leading to the active catalyst, and thus the performance char- 0009-2665/88/0788-0055$06.50/0 0 1988 American Chemical Society 56 Chemical Reviews, 1988. VoI. 88. No. 1 Centi et ai.Gabriele Centi was born in Boizano. Italy. and graduated from the University of Bologna (Italy) in 1979. After completing his post- doctoral work at the Experimental Station for Fuels (Italy), he moved to the University of Bologna, where he is presently a Pro- fessw of Chemical Engineering. His main research interests are in the catalytic. synthetic, and engineering aspects of selective oxidation reactions, in particular on the relationship between sol- '&state and surface aspects and mechanistic aspects of catalysis on mixed and supported oxides.Ferruccio Trlfir6 is Full Professor in Industrial Chemistry at the University of Bologna (Italy) and took his degree in chemical en- gineering from the Poliecnico Milano (Italy) in 1963, wcfking Umre until 1974. H e was a postdoctoral feiiow at the HievrOsky Institute (Czechoslovak$) and at the University of Reading (United Kingdom) and Visiting Professor at the University of Erbngen (Germany). He is presently President of the Catalysis Group of the Italian Chem- istry Society and Director of the Deparhnent of Industrial Chemistry and Materials of the University of Bologna. His main interests are in heterogeneous chemistry. solid-state and surface characteriza- tion, catalytic tests, and kinetic and mechanistic aspects. H e holds several patents in heterogeneous oxidation processes. His inter- ests also include photooxidation reactions and the relationship between homogeneous and heterogeneous mechanisms acteristics and mechanism of catalysis. For example,the use of an organic solvent during preparation as opposed to an aqueous system results in differing de- grees of crystallinityz6 and defect structure of the re- sulting active phase. The final P V ratio of the active phase may he varied and has been the subject of nu- merous  publication?' However, recent advances in understanding the sol- id-state chemistry of PVO have allowed studies of this reaction with well-characterized,reproducible compo- sitions. This has resulted in better analysis of the role of oxidation states, the P V ratio, and defect structure on the reaction mechanism."
[2] "The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a fas- cinating and complex system. This catalytic system performs a 14-electron oxidation involving the ab- Jerry Ebner is a Monsanto Science Fellow, Catalyst Technology. Born in LaCmsse. WI. he obtained his P h D in inorganic chemistry at P I . & Unlversity in 1975 under Professor R. A. Wanon. He has conducted research in the field of heterogeneous catalysis since he joined Monsanto Chemical Co. in 1975. Since 1982 he has served as group leader of heterogeneous catalysis in the selective Oxidation and ammoxidation areas, as well as group leader of the corporate catalysis research group. In 1986 he was appointed a Monsanto Science Fellow. His research interests include new catalyst synthesis and characterization. solid-state chemistry. and studies of chemical surface reactions through the development and application of new catalyst characterization methods. 4 / \ Victoria Franchetti presently Is Director of Research. Plastic Techno4ogy. Monsanto Chemical Co. From 1984 to 1987 she was Manager. Maleic Catalyst Techrology, Whin h s SpedaHy Chemical Division. She received her Ph.D. from Boston University in 1975 and joined Monsanto Chemical Co. in 1977 after completing a 2-year postdoctoral appointment at Purdue University. Her re- search and management experience at Mcnsanto has included Um areas of solid characterization. process analytical development,catalysis, and new plastics technology."
[3] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by the facile formation of a number of crystalline phases, both of vanadium(1V) and of vanadium(V)X the more interesting P:V atomic ratio near 1.0, the different crystalline (a,p),50,74-82 polymorphic (aI,aII,y, 6),31-333*82 or hydrated phases of V0P0431-33*5074-87 have been extensively studied. In general, the vanadyl orthophosphate crystal structure consists of V06 and PO4 groups arranged in layers [VOP04],, held together by long V-0 bonds or by hydrogen bonds. The layered structure leads to a rich intercalation chemistry, with formation of layered solids consisting of alternating inorganic and organic layers@ or the formation of sol- vated inorganic intercalation compound."
[4] "The constitutive layers of the y-VOP04 framework have a tenden@ to shift cooperatively along the Burger vector in order to progressively form the columns of edge-share octahedra and pyrophosphate groups of (VO)2P207. This trans- formation is easier than the movement along the crys- tallographic shear planes proposed to account for the reduction of p-VOP0431v33973 Also a-VOP04 r e d u c e J under less severe conditions compared to those needed to reduce p-VOP04. However, the a-VOP04 can also transform to p-VOP04 at high temperatures, particularly in the hot-spot zones of fixed-bed reactors. The presence of p-VOP04 in used or inactive catalysts for butane oxidation accounts for a loss of catalytic per- formance, and its greater stability compared with that of the other forms of VOP04 limits its further trans- f o r m a t i n . !"
[5] "The active catalyst must possess an optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation according to Zazhigalov et al.lo3 from studies of V/P-mica com- pounds with variable V(IV)/V(V) ratios. These com- pounds preserve the layer structure of the initial a- V5+OP04 compound. Optimal performance properties are associated with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(1V) ion."
[6] "The results of Contractor et al.,22 Johnson et al.?lJ1l Pepera et al.,129 and Trifirb et a1.60J096J05J30 agree with the identification of vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Contractor et al.22 indicate that in the absence of gas-phase oxygen it is possible to eliminate highly active surface oxygen species that are not selective. Using a recirculating solids reactor, with separate hydrocarbon-catalyst and oxygen-catalyst stages, it is possible to increase the selectivity to maleic anhydride to near 80%."
[7] "The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining catalyst selectivity and activity according to Wenig and S h r a d e r . Selectivity for maleic anhydride increases with catalyst phosphorus loading, whereas specific ac- tivity of both selective and nonselective oxidation de- creases on increase of phosphorus content in the 0.9-1.2 P:V range. Best catalytic performances are exhibited with a catalyst with a P:V ratio of 1.1."
[8] "The vanadium phosphorus oxides are able to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these olefins react further to form partial oxidation producta. When insufficient oxygen is channeled to the active site,intermediate products may desorb and react at other sites. When surface oxygen concentrations are high, the evidence supports a single-site mechanism for selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride; Le., once n-butane is activated, it remains bound to the surface in various forms until desorption as maleic anhydride occurs."
[9] "In the C4 alkene oxidation an interesting effect is oberved.'JJ'@ On increasing the hydrocarbon con- centration, the formation of maleic anhydride reaches a maximum and then decreases with a corresponding increase in the formation of butadiene. An increase in oxygen partial pressure while keeping butene constant causes an increase in the formation of maleic anhydride.The olefin concentration corresponding to the value of the maximum maleic anhydride shifts to higher values on increase of oxygen concentration. Similar results are found in butadiene oxidation. Also a self-inhibition effect of the hydrocarbon on the synthesis of the maleic anhydride and an almost linear dependence of the self-inhibition effect upon the O2 concentration are observed."
[10] "The very different kinetic behaviors of the alkene and alkane reactants bring into question the different cat- alyst surface effects induced by the two reactants. Szakacs et al.lZ7 studied the oxidation of but-l-ene and n-butane to maleic anhydride in a pulse micro- reactor in the presence of gaseous O2 on a VOP04 catalyst. Oxygen balances show that in both cases, in spite of the presence of gas-phase 02,the Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source. However, in the but-l-ene conversion the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated in the products of reaction is much higher than in the n-butane case, pointing out the substantial difference in the reactivity and of the type of interaction of the two hydrocarbons."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, for instance, is characterized by the facile formation and interconversion of various crystalline V(IV) and V(V) phases, leading to confusion about the nature of the active phase. The synthesis variables, such as the use of organic solvents versus aqueous systems, affect the crystallinity and defect structure of the active phase. The final P:V ratio of the active phase, which has been the subject of numerous publications, also plays a crucial role. Recent advances in understanding the solid-state chemistry of PVO have allowed for the study of reactions with well-characterized, reproducible compositions, leading to better analysis of the role of oxidation states, the P:V ratio, and defect structure on the reaction mechanism. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex system involving a 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the nature of the active site, the importance of the P:V ratio, oxidation state, and structural characteristics of the vanadium phosphorus oxide system. The detection and formation of intermediates are also critical factors. The PVO system exhibits a rich intercalation chemistry, with the formation of layered solids consisting of alternating inorganic and organic layers or solvated inorganic intercalation compounds. The stability and reactivity of different PVO phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance, with p-VOP04 being less stable and more prone to transformation at high temperatures, leading to a loss of catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation is crucial, with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal performance properties. The identification of vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase in n-butane oxidation has been supported by various studies. The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with selectivity for maleic anhydride increasing with higher phosphorus loading, while specific activity decreases. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then react further to form partial oxidation products. The mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. In the oxidation of C4 alkenes, an interesting effect is observed: increasing hydrocarbon concentration initially increases the formation of maleic anhydride to a maximum, followed by a decrease with a corresponding increase in butadiene formation. The different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest different catalyst surface effects. Oxygen balances in the oxidation of but-1-ene and n-butane to maleic anhydride show that, despite the presence of gas-phase O2, the Vv phosphate acts as the oxygen source. However, the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated in the products of reaction is higher in the but-1-ene conversion than in the n-butane case, highlighting the difference in reactivity and interaction of the two hydrocarbons.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中。例如，钒磷氧化物（PVO）系统的特点是能够轻松形成和互换多种结晶V(IV)和V(V)相，这导致了关于活性相性质的混淆。合成变量，如使用有机溶剂与水系统，会影响活性相的结晶度和缺陷结构。活性相的最终P:V比值，这是许多出版物的主题，也起着关键作用。最近对PVO的固态化学的理解进展使得能够用特征明确、可重复的组成研究反应，从而更好地分析氧化态、P:V比值和缺陷结构对反应机制的作用。n-丁烷到马来酸酐的反应，一个涉及14电子氧化的复杂系统，受活性位点性质、P:V比值的重要性、氧化态和钒磷氧化物系统的结构特征的影响。检测和形成中间体也是关键因素。PVO系统表现出丰富的层间化学，形成由交替的无机和有机层组成的层状固体或溶剂化无机层间化合物。不同PVO相，如a-VOP04和p-VOP04的稳定性和反应性，影响催化性能，p-VOP04在高温下更不稳定，更易转化，导致催化性能下降。V4+/V5+的最优比值对于n-丁烷氧化的选择性至关重要，含有4-9个V(V)离子每V(IV)离子的催化剂显示出最优的性能特性。将钒酸吡咯作为n-丁烷氧化的活性相的识别得到了各种研究的支持。P:V比值是决定催化剂选择性和活性的关键参数，随着磷含量的增加，马来酸酐的选择性增加，而特定活性降低。钒磷氧化物可以将n-丁烷脱氢为烯烃，这些烯烃进一步反应形成部分氧化产物。在高表面氧浓度下，选择性转化n-丁烷为马来酸酐的机制得到支持，表明单活性位点机制。在C4烯烃氧化中，观察到一个有趣的效果：随着烃浓度的增加，马来酸酐的形成最初达到最大值，随后随着丁二烯形成量的增加而减少。不同烯烃和烷烃反应物的不同动力学行为表明了不同的催化剂表面效应。在丁-1-烯和n-丁烷氧化为马来酸酐的氧化平衡中，尽管存在气相O2，Vv磷酸盐仍作为氧源。然而，丁-1-烯转化中产物中掺入的晶格氧量高于n-丁烷的情况，突出了两种烃的不同反应性和相互作用。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
