<quotes>

[1] "The recent results of Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C , Hydrocarbons u ."
[2] "These experimental results illustrate the important relationship between catalytic behavior and the surface modifications induced by the medium itself."
[3] "The redox properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, which in turn profoundly affects the nature of the products formed in the reaction."
[4] "The change of valence state of vanadium thus de- pends upon a balance of three factors: (1) the redox potential of the feed, (2) the rate of oxidation of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction, and (3) the rate of reduction of the catalyst at the temperature of re- action."
[5] "However, a deeper examination of the dy- namics of the working state of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface-induced modifications and catalytic behavior would lead to an even better understanding of the selectivity-controlling properties of these mixed oxides."
[6] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[7] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[8] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[9] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[10] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[11] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[12] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[13] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[14] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[15] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[16] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[17] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[18] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[19] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[20] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[21] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[22] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[23] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[24] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[25] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[26] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[27] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[28] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[29] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[30] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[31] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[32] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[33] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[34] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[35] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[36] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride:a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[37] "The first step is suggested to be con- trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[38] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- dation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[39] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[40] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation procedures."
[41] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have a significant impact on the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, which in turn affects the nature of the products formed in the reaction. The change of valence state of vanadium depends on the redox potential of the feed, the rate of oxidation of the catalyst at the reaction temperature, and the rate of reduction of the catalyst at the reaction temperature. The relationship between catalytic behavior and surface modifications induced by the medium itself is important. A deeper examination of the dynamics of the working state of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface-induced modifications and catalytic behavior would lead to a better understanding of the selectivity-controlling properties of these mixed oxides. The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons and the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are interpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride. The first step is controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, while the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available. However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxidation proceeds further to carbon oxides. There is a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and the rate of formation of vanadium(V). The different redox properties of the three catalysts depend on the preparation procedures. At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation, the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidizable catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。进料的氧化还原性质影响催化剂的表面氧化状态，进而影响反应中形成的产品的性质。钒的价态变化取决于进料的氧化还原电位、催化剂在反应温度下的氧化速率以及催化剂在反应温度下的还原速率。催化行为与介质本身引起的表面改性之间的关系非常重要。对催化剂表面工作状态的动力学和表面诱导改性与催化行为之间的关系进行更深入的考察，将有助于更好地理解这些混合氧化物的选择性控制性质。C4烃与催化剂表面相互作用引起的表面改性结果，以及P:V比对氧化还原性质和选择性/活性影响的结果，是基于从烷烃或烯烃到马来酸酐的两种不同类型的反应进行解释的。第一步由Vw还原速率控制，而第二步由Vv的量控制。然而，当Vv的含量过高时，氧化进一步进行到碳氧化物。在高转化率下，马来酸酐的选择性与五价钒的形成速率之间存在强烈的关系。三种催化剂(仅晶相，即钒酸盐)的不同氧化还原性质取决于制备程序。在低转化率和相似的Vv形成速率下，催化剂显示出大致相似的选择性，但在高转化率下，当氧化速率存在最大差异时，更易氧化的催化剂显示出最高的马来酸酐分解速率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
