I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


?
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999. 50:79115
REACTIONS OF TRANSITION METAL CLUSTERS
WITH SMALL MOLECULES1
Mark B. Knickelbein Chemistry Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439;e-mail: knickelbein@anl.gov Key Words chemisorption, reaction kinetics, infrared spectroscopy,photoionization, molecular beams I Abstract Atoms and small molecules react with transition metal clusters in ways that are analogous to the physisorption and chemisorption reactions observed on the corresponding extended metal surface. However, often underlying these similarities are size-dependent variations in the reaction mechanisms and rates, the interpretation of which requires a detailed understanding of the structures of both the bare metal cluster substrates and the cluster-molecule complexes. Although polyatomic transition metal clusters cannot be characterized by the traditional methods of molecular spectroscopy,thecombinationofotherphysicalandchemicalprobescanprovidequalitativeandsemi- quantitative structural information. These techniques, when combined with equilib- rium geometries calculated using ab initio or semiempirical methods, provide a detailed picture of the structural origin of metal cluster reactivity and its variation with size.
INTRODUCTION
Over the past 20 years, the techniques of modern surface science have yielded a great body of detailed information regarding the adsorption of atoms and molecules on single crystal transition metal surfaces (13). Such studies of chemistry in two dimensions have been invaluable in determining the complex reaction mechanisms relevant to many heterogeneous catalytic processes. In 1981, Richard Smalley and his coworkers reported a novel laser vaporization method of producing bare metal and semiconductor clusters that in many ways behaved like nanometer-sized sur- faces (4). Soon after its development, this method was being used in many labora- tories to produce clusters composed of transition metals, as well as semimetals and semiconductors, allowing investigation of their size-specific physical and chem- ical behavior under isolated conditions. Clusters of transition metal atoms, Mn,were found to exhibit particularly rich chemistry, reacting readily with a variety of 1The US Government has the right to retain a nonexclusive, royalty-free license in and to any copyright covering this paper. 79 Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 80
KNICKELBEIN
small molecules in ways that, broadly speaking, were analogous to the chemisorp- tion reactions observed on the corresponding bulk metal surfaces. However, closer examination revealed that the rates and mechanisms of cluster-molecule reactions often varied significantly with cluster size, demonstrating that these species are not simply small pieces of the bulk metal, but rather distinct species whose structure and properties change dramatically from one size to the next (510). The cluster- surface analogy quickly became apparent from the reactivity surveys of the 1980s,and the phrase molecular surface science was coined to describe this new approach to the study of metal-molecule chemisorption reactions (6, 7, 9).
As in conventional surface chemistry studies, the goals in studying metal cluster reactions are to determine the mechanisms, rates, and energetics of adsorption and to understand how these attributes depend on the structures of the underlying bare cluster substrates. However, until relatively recently, interpretation of metal cluster reactivity experiments has been hampered by the lack of structural information,both for the bare cluster substrates and for the product complexes. Fortunately, ad- vances in theoretical and experimental methods have enabled significant progress to be made toward solving the general problem of cluster structure determination.
The focus of this review is to summarize the current state of the molecular surface science of transition metal clusters. Earlier reviews of transition metal clusters and their gas-phase reactions can be found elsewhere (611). In this review, emphasis is given to recent results in which experiment and theory have been combined to reveal the structural origin of size effects observed in rates of cluster-molecule reactions; emphasis is also given to the structures of the resulting cluster-adsorbate complexes. The scope of this review is limited to gas-phase reactions of transi- tion metal clusters with atoms and small molecules and concentrates mainly on reactions of neutral clusters. The study of transition metal ions M+ n and M n and their chemistry is an active field in its own right, and although the experimental techniques are different from those used to study neutral clusters, it is generally ob- served that charged clusters display the same reaction channels as are displayed by the corresponding neutral clusters (1214). Reviews of transition metal cluster ion chemistry can be found elsewhere (10, 15). Recent studies describing interesting sandwich and layered cluster structures produced via the reaction of transition metal atoms with C60 and benzene are not reviewed here; instead, the reader is re- ferred to the original literature (1621). Finally, the definition of a transition metal is expanded for the purpose of this review to include the coinage metalscopper,silver, and gold.
CHARACTERIZING THE SUBSTRATE: The Determination of Metal Cluster Structure Although a comprehensive discussion of the determination of metal cluster struc- ture is beyond the scope of this review, an introductory overview is in order, given the central role of structure in determining reactivity. The task of determining Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
81 transition metal cluster structure has proven to be enormously difficult because of the size and complexity of these species. Laser-based spectroscopic techniques are capable of yielding structural information only for very small clusters. Res- onant two-photon ionization spectroscopy has provided spectroscopic constants for a number of transition metal dimers (22), whereas zero electron kinetic energy photoelectron spectroscopy has been used to obtain structures for species contain- ing up to three metal atoms, such as Nb3C2 (23), Y3C2 (24), Nb3O (25), and their cations. Raman spectroscopy has recently been used to determine the structures of small, matrix-isolated silver clusters (26) up to Ag5. However, because of compli- cations resulting from large numbers of vibrational degrees of freedom, low-lying electronic states, and the resulting nonadiabatic behavior, these and other tradi- tional techniques of molecular spectroscopy are ineffective in characterizing larger metal clusters. As a result, structural information for larger metal clusters is usu- ally obtained indirectly, using characteristic patterns in their physical or chemical behavior to infer their geometries.
One such approach is the chemical probe technique developed by Riley & Parks (2729). This approach essentially turns the structure-reactivity problem around, using probe molecules to saturate the adsorption sites on the surface of the clusters such that the number of sites can be determined. This information is used in conjunction with a set of empirical binding rules to choose from among a set of reasonablecandidatesforagivenclusteralikelystructurewiththerequisitenumber of binding sites. The structures of small nickel and cobalt clusters determined in this way are shown in Figure 1, in this case probed by the adsorption of nitrogen and ammonia. Although not providing absolute proof of cluster structures, this type of experiment is one of the most useful structural tools available for metal cluster structure determination, particularly for larger clusters where spectroscopic probes are not applicable.
Because of the large number of electrons and the open d-shells of the constituent atoms, calculation of the stable structures of polyatomic transition metal clusters has proven to be among the most difficult problems in quantum chemistry. Until recently, the complexity (and computational difficulty) of the problem dictated the use of less-accurate methods, such as the Hartree-Fock (30), extended H uckel (31, 32), and Xα-scattered wave (32, 33) approaches. Although these methods can provide useful qualitative information and identify trends, they are of insufficient accuracy to reliably predict geometric structures or physical properties. However,recent advances in both electronic structure methodology and computational per- formance have permitted structures to be calculated accurately with reasonable effort, enabling searches for global minima and low-lying isomers for clusters containing up to eight or ten transition metal atoms. Density-functional theory has emerged as a particularly promising approach, possessing both the necessary accuracy and computational efficiency (3438). Density-functional theory calcu- lations of small nickel (35) and cobalt (35, 38) clusters, for example, find ground state structures that are generally in accord with the experimentally determined structures shown in Figure 1.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 82
KNICKELBEIN
?
Figure 1 Structure(s) for Nin and Con determined by the chemical probe method.
(Reproduced from Reference 28 with permission from Elsevier Science.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
83 For clusters containing more than approximately 10 metal atoms, the use of high-level electronic structure methods is precluded because of prohibitive com- putational demands. However, for certain metals for which reliable semiempir- ical potentials are available, such as nickel and the coinage metals, molecular dynamics- and gradient-based methods can be used to obtain stable structures for much larger clusters than can be currently studied by ab initio methods. Although not as accurate as state-of-the-art electronic structure methods, these methods are capable of yielding properties and geometric structures that are largely insensitive to the details of the potential. Nickel clusters have been extensively studied by such techniques (3951), driven in part by the availability of both accurate potentials and a significant body of experimental data to which the results can be compared.
The lowest-energy structures obtained for small nickel clusters (3942, 4547) are generally in accord with those experimentally determined (5256) by the chemical probe method (Figure 1).
Often, even the best calculations are of insufficient accuracy to predict reli- ably the energetic ordering among a set of close-lying isomers. In such cases, it is sometimes possible to identify the lowest-energy isomer among several candi- dates by comparing one or more experimentally determined properties with those predicted theoretically. Cluster attributes that are amenable to both calculation and accurate measurement include their physical properties, such as ionization potential and electron affinity, as well as their spectroscopic signatures provided by photoelectron spectra, optical absorption spectra, and vibrational spectra. For example, ground state geometries of neutral iron (57) and niobium clusters (37) were identified by comparing the characteristic shapes of the photodetachment spectra of their corresponding anions with simulations based on the distribution of excited electronic states calculated for the corresponding neutral clusters.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACHES
Kinetics and Reactive Scattering The gas-phase production of bare transition metal clusters is most often accom- plished by using a pulsed laser vaporization source similar to that originally de- scribed by Smalley and coworkers (4, 58). This method of cluster production has the advantage of being completely general, allowing the generation of neutral or charged clusters from virtually any solid element. Because only a minuscule amount of metal is evaporated with each laser pulse, targets consisting of rare or isotopically enriched metals can be used at reasonable cost. In addition, this type of source can be coupled to a wide variety of apparati suited to cluster reactivity stud- ies, such as flow-tube reactors, beam-gas reactive scattering cells, and (for charged clusters) ion cyclotron resonance spectrometers (59) and ion drift cells (60, 61).
The elementary reactions of neutral metal clusters can be studied either within a flow-tube reactor coupled directly to the cluster source or, after expansion of Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 84
KNICKELBEIN
the clusters into vacuum, within a secondary low-pressure cell in a beam-gas experiment. Of these two approaches, the flow-tube (or fast-flow) reactor is more commonly used. In this setup, the reactant gas A is added to the carrier gas stream containing the formed clusters prior to their expansion into vacuum. The energy released in the Mn + A reaction produces an internally excited complex that, unless stabilized by a third body collision with the carrier gas atom C, will eventually dissociate: Mn + A ka
kd MnA,
1.
MnA+ C ks MnA + C.
2.
Invoking the steady state assumption for [Mn A], the reaction rate coefficient, kr,describing the depletion of Mn (and the appearance of Mn A) is predicted to vary with the concentration [C ] (or, equivalently, pressure) of the carrier gas according to kr = k0[C] 1 + k0[C]/ka ,
3.
where k0 = kaks/kd is the termolecular rate coefficient. In the high-pressure limit (i.e. as [C] ), virtually every nascent complex Mn Ais stabilized,such that kr ka. From a practical standpoint, the carrier gas pressures (1 100 Torr) used in typical flow-tube cluster reactors are usually sufficient to ensure that reactions occur in this bimolecular regime. Of course, the mechanism given by Equations 1 and 2 comprises the simplest case and does not include the possibility of other energetically allowed unimolecular reactions that may occur in parallel with simple desorption of the reactant A.
Evenatthelowestreactantgasflows, thereactantconcentration[A]isessentially constant and greatly exceeds that of the clusters [Mn]. In this case, the methods of pseudo-first-order kinetics can be used to evaluate the reactive rate coefficient kr from the depletion of bare cluster signal in the mass spectrum as a function of
[A]:
[Mn] = [Mn]0ekr[A]τ.
4.
In Equation 4, τ is the effective contact time of the clusters with the reagent within the flow tube, and [Mn]0 is the initial metal cluster concentration at τ = 0.
The reactant gas concentrations are typically chosen so that the number of reactive collisions (which heat the cluster) are greatly exceeded by the number of cooling collisions with the carrier gas. In this way it can be ensured that the reaction products are stabilized and that the cluster-molecule reactions occur at a constant temperature. It should be noted, however, that it is sometimes desirable to conduct reactions at the opposite extreme, under high-temperature, reagent-rich conditions favoring the production of metastable products, an example of which is Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
85 the met-car family of metal-carbon clusters (62, 63). In the absence of stabilizing collisions, the total exothermicity of sequential cluster-molecule reactions can be so high that the product complexes emit blackbody radiation extending into the visible region, as demonstrated for reactions of niobium clusters with oxygen by Frenzel et al (64).
Although the beam-gas method for studying elementary chemical reactions is well established and has been used to study the reactions of size-selected metal cluster ions (60, 61), its adaptation to the study of reactions involving neutral metal clusters is fairly recent (65). In this approach, a molecular beam of clusters passes through a differentially pumped gas cell, containing 0.11 Torr of reactant gas,where nonreactive and reactive collisions occur. By measuring the depletion of bare clusters Mn and the appearance of association products Mn A, Mn A2, etc,as a function of reactant gas pressure PA, sticking probabilities can be obtained (6572). In contrast to flow-tube reactor experiments, which are conducted within a constant-temperature helium bath, beam-gas experiments are conducted under (nearly) single-collision conditions and are therefore better described as occurring at constant total energy, given by the sum of the relative translational energy Etr and the energy released by the chemisorption reaction 1Hchem. Both nonreactive and reactive scattering effects can complicate the calculation of absolute cross sections from measured sticking probabilities. First, simple nonreactive scattering attenuates the signal both from unreacted bare clusters and adsorbate complexes;however, this effect decreases smoothly with increasing cluster mass and can be corrected to first order through measurement of deflection probabilities with rare gas collision partners (71). Second, the unimolecular dissociation of vibrationally excited product complexes can be accompanied by sufficient translational kinetic energy release that some fraction of the products recoil from the molecular beam prior to detection. Such fragmentation effects vary significantly with cluster size and are manifested by discontinuities in the otherwise smoothly decreasing depen- dence of deflection probability on cluster size. The sticking probabilities measured in beam-gas experiments complement the thermal rate constants by providing an absolute probability for the primary encounter, a quantity that in flow-tube ex- periments is obscured by the effects of subsequent collisions. Furthermore, the scattering and unimolecular dissociation phenomena, although complicating the estimation of reactive cross sections, provides valuable kinematic information re- garding the cluster-molecule collision that is unobservable in flow-tube kinetics experiments.
Product Detection and Characterization Mass spectrometry in some form is used in essentially all gas-phase reactivity stud- ies of neutral metal clusters, providing both size specificity and the high sensitivity needed to detect the minute quantities of clusters produced. Laser photoioniza- tion time-of-flight mass spectrometry is the most widely used method and has the Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 86
KNICKELBEIN
advantage that a large range of cluster sizes can be studied concurrently, thus re- ducing data collection times. Fortunately, the ionization potentials of all but the smallest transition metal clusters are low enough that they can be one-photon ion- ized at one or more of the wavelengths provided by rare-gas halide excimer lasers or by frequency up-converted dye lasers.
Qualitative information regarding the nature of cluster-adsorbate bonding can be obtained through threshold photoionization efficiency spectra, obtained from cluster photoion intensities measured as a function of photoionization wavelength.
Fromphotoionizationefficiencyspectra, smallshiftsinclusterionizationpotentials (IPs) that accompany the adsorption of atoms or molecules can be measured,and from the magnitude and direction of these shifts, a general picture of how adsorbates are bound to the underlying cluster can be obtained.
More detailed information regarding the interaction of the adsorbate with the cluster can be obtained from infrared (IR) spectroscopy. Extremely small sam- ple densities preclude the direct measurement of IR absorption spectra; however, IR photodissociation spectroscopy, a depletion technique, can be used to obtain spectra even in the sparse samples contained in molecular beams (7383). This is a pump-probe technique in which multiphoton absorption of IR (pump) light by the complex results in its dissociation. The pump laser-induced depletion of the product complexes is monitored by time-of-flight mass spectrometry (the probe).
The relative IR absorption cross sections σ are determined from measurements of depletion D recorded as a function of laser frequency via D = 1 eσ F, where F is the pump laser fluence (76). Applications of both photoionization spectroscopy and IR photodissociation spectroscopy in the characterization of various Mn + A reaction products are discussed below.
REACTION RATES AND EQUILIBRIA
Activated Versus Facile Bimolecular Reactions A general (but greatly simplified) model describing the physisorption and chemis- orption of molecules onto metal surfaces is illustrated in Figure 2. This idealized surface model is also useful in understanding the mechanisms of metal cluster- molecule reactions. In general, the attractive cluster-molecule potential consists of a long-range component, dominated by van der Waals forces that give rise to physisorption and a shorter range but deeper potential well, characteristic of either molecular or dissociative chemisorption. As illustrated in Figure 2a, facile ad- sorption reactions occur on a purely attractive potential, with no activation barrier separating the gas-phase reactants from the adsorbed products. In contrast, acti- vated reactions (Figure 2b) possess an entrance channel barrier separating reactants from chemisorbed products. However, the point at which the physical and chemical potential surfaces cross can be below the zero of energy defined by infinite surface- molecule separation (Figure 2c). In this case, the chemisorption reaction can occur Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
87 Figure 2 Simplified potential energy surfaces illustrating physisorption and chemi- sorption on metal surfaces and clusters. (a) Direct facile reactions. (b) Direct acti- vated reactions. (c) Direct facile or activated, precursor-mediated reactions. 1Hchem,1Hphys, and Ea represent the enthalpy of chemisorption, the enthalpy of physisorption,and the activation energy, respectively.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 88
KNICKELBEIN
directly either via a facile, barrierless reaction or by a two-step mechanism in which the reactant molecule becomes weakly physisorbed prior to undergoing activated chemisorption. In general, activated reactions are dissociative in nature, involving the breaking of intramolecular bonds and the formation of stronger bonds between the resulting atoms or fragments and the metal surface, whereas facile reactions can involve either molecular or dissociative chemisorption. A potential energy surface describing chemisorption may have several minima, corresponding, for example,to molecular adsorption followed by one or more decomposition steps. All other factors being equal, because of presence of the activation barrier, activated surface reactions are predicted to occur with lower probability per collision than do facile reactions.
Extending this surface model to metal clusters, we can expect that the rates for facile, irreversible adsorption reactions will exhibit little cluster-size dependence,occurring with high probability regardless of the detailed structure of the substrate cluster. An example of a facile reaction occurring near the gas kinetic rate is provided by the Nbn + O2 reaction, the 300 K rate coefficients (84) for which are shown in Figure 3. It is generally observed that molecules possessing lone pairs of electrons such as carbon monoxide, methanol, and ammonia react with metal clusters via facile association reactions (9, 85). Physisorption of rare gas atoms and molecules onto metal clusters, also facile reactions, are only observed at relatively low temperatures because of the weak nature of the van der Waals forces involved and (in the case of molecular adsorbates) because competing activated chemisorption reactions are slowed.In contrast, because of the discontinuous evolution of structures (and hence activation barriers), Mn + A reactions possessing an activation barrier may be expected to exhibit significant reactivity variations from one cluster size to the next. Dissociative Mn + H2 MnHH reactions fall into this category, display- ing rate coefficients that are often significantly less than the gas kinetic collision rates and that vary over several orders of magnitude with cluster size. These reac- tivity variations tend to be largest for clusters containing fewer than 20 atoms, as demonstrated in Figure 3 for the Nbn + H2 and Nbn + N2 reactions (84). These fluctuations are due to the sudden variations in electronic and/or geometric struc- tures that occur in this size range. For larger clusters, the variations in reactivity as well as other properties become less pronounced as common structural motifs are adopted. Metal cluster reactions with molecular nitrogen often display the same size dependence as the corresponding Mn + H2 reactions, as illustrated in Figure 3 for Nbn + N2, although clusters of certain transition metals (such as nickel and cobalt) react with N2 at room temperature and below to produce stable complexes in which the nitrogen is molecularlyrather than dissociativelychemisorbed (5456, 86, 87). This is discussed in more detail below.
Soon after survey studies revealed large cluster size variations in the rates of Fen + H2 and Nbn + H2 reactions, Whetten et al (8890) recognized a rough correlation between cluster reactivity and IP. Specifically, it was noted that those clusters having an unusually high IP compared with neighboring clusters also dis- played low reactivity and vice versa. This correlation is demonstrated in Figure 3 Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
89 Figure 3 (Top panel) Rate coefficients kr for reaction of niobium clusters with oxy- gen, deuterium, and nitrogen. (Adapted from Reference 84 with permission.) (Bottom panel) Highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO)lowest unoccupied molecular or- bital (LUMO) gaps (from Reference 93), effective ionization potential (IPeff) (adapted from Reference 84), and promotion energy (Ep). for the Nbn + H2/N2 reactions using a slightly modified definition of cluster IP,which is discussed below. Based on the observed correlation, Whetten et al pro- posed a simple electron transfer model, adapted from surface chemistry (91), in which electron donation from the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the metal cluster to the hydrogen σ (antibonding) orbital was assumed to be the rate-determining step in the reaction. Thus, it was reasoned, the higher the IP of a cluster, the higher the activation barrier for reaction. However, noting that clusters of other transition metals did not follow this IP-reactivity correlation (and iron clusters only approximately), Concei c ao et al proposed a more refined model (92).
These workers found that variations in the reactivities of iron, cobalt, and nickel clusters with hydrogen correlated more convincingly to the difference between cluster IP and electron affinity (EA) than to IP alone (Figure 4). Specifically, they Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 90
KNICKELBEIN
Figure 4 Reactivity of Fen, Con, and Nin with hydrogen, and promotion energy (Ep) as a function of cluster size. (Reproduced from Reference 92 with permission.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
91 postulated that the quantity Ep = IP EA e2/R (the last term proportional to the classical charging energy of the cluster of radius R) was a first order measure of the energy required to promote an electron from the HOMO to the lowest un- occupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the cluster. The key assumption of this model is that the activation barrier is due to Pauli repulsion between the valence electrons of the incoming H2 molecule and the cluster HOMO; the energy required to surmount this barrier is given to first order by the HOMO LUMO promo- tion energy, Ep. Recently, Kietzmann et al determined the HOMO-LUMO gap of Nbn (n = 617) directly from the photoelectron spectra of mass selected Nb n and found a similar correlation between the HOMO-LUMO gap and reactivity toward hydrogen (93). As shown in Figure 3, the size variation in the HOMO-LUMO gap is strikingly similar to that displayed by Ep, computed according to the prescrip- tion of Concei c ao et al (92) from niobium cluster ionization potentials (94) and electron affinities (93).
The ability of high-level electronic structure theory to describe the potential energy surfaces governing activated reactions was recently demonstrated in a study ofNbn + H2 andNbn + N2 reactions(84).ItwasobservedthatN2 andH2 reactwith niobium clusters with essentially the same size dependence (Figure 3). Supporting density-functional theory calculations were performed for the computationally tractable model complexes, NbnH2 and NbnN2 (n = 13). In the lowest-lying configurations of both Nb2H2 and Nb2N2 complexes, the H2 and N2 molecules were fully dissociated, with the H and N atoms bound on opposite sides of Nb2 in a perpendicular bridging configuration. It is interesting that these same structural moieties were observed as subunits in the lowest-lying states of Nb3H2 and Nb3N2 as well, with the additional Nb atom not directly participating in the Nb-H and Nb- N bonding. In addition to predictions of stable minima and their energetic ordering,total energies were computed along reaction coordinates identified as being the mostenergeticallyfavorablepathsconnectingreactantsandproducts.Theresulting family of diabatic potential energy curves (Figure 5) correlates to the various electronic states of Nb2 and Nb3 in the limit of infinite separation. For the Nb2 + N2 system, the lowest-lying bound states of Nb2N2 (all having C2v symmetry) were found to correlate to three excited electronic states of Nb2, each having doubly excited δ(a2)2 configurations, whereas the ground (3B1) state of Nb2 possessing a filled σ(a1)2 bonding orbital was repulsive with respect to N2 addition. In contrast,the 1A1 ground state of Nb2H2 correlated to very low-lying states of Nb2, each involving different occupations of the degenerate δ(a1, b1) HOMO. Noting that the geometric and electronic structures for Nb3H2 and Nb3N2 were similar to those in the corresponding Nb2 complexes, B erces et al proposed that the Nb2 subunit formed the reactive site for H2/N2 dissociative chemisorption in Nb3 as well as in larger niobium clusters. A detailed charge-density analysis showed that the sudden inflections in the potential energy curves signifying H-H and N-N bond rupture (see Figure 5) were accompanied by a net transfer of electron density to the H and N atoms, mediatedbyavoidedcrossingswithionic potentialsurfaces.Iftheactivation Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 92
KNICKELBEIN
Figure 5 Potential energy curves for the Nbn +H2 and Nbn +N2 reactions calculated from density-functional theory. See text for details. (Reproduced from Reference 84 with permission.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
93 Figure 5 (Continued ) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 94
KNICKELBEIN
barrier for dissociative chemisorption is assumed to be governed by this neutral ionic transition, the height of the barrier would be expected to be proportional to cluster IP, giving rise to the IP-reactivity correlation first noted by Whetten et al (88, 90). Combining this assumption of charge transfer with the notion that Nb2 was the reactive site within the Nbn, B erces et al (84) defined an effective cluster ionization potential IPeff = IP + Epol, in which Epol is the polarization energy estimated by assuming that the formal positive charge resided on the Nb2 site that is directly involved in the reaction rather than at the center of the cluster. IPeff displays the same size dependence (as well as the same correlation to niobium cluster reactivity) as is shown by the HOMO-LUMO gap and Ep (Figure 3); however,the underlying physical basis for these similarities is not obvious. It should be emphasizedthatthisIP-reactivitycorrelationandthecharge-transfermodelderived from it is most compelling for the Nbn+H2/N2 case; no other Mn + H2/N2 system studied to date displays this empirical relationship as clearly. Understanding the underlying factors controlling dissociative chemisorption of H2/N2 reactivity for other Mn species will require detailed case-by-case theoretical studies (95).
Precursor-Mediated Chemisorption Although the rates of Mn + H2 and Mn + N2 reactions generally display the dramatic size-dependence indicative of activated reactions, the rate coefficients actually measured are often found to decrease with increasing temperature, con- trarytoexpectation.SuchbehaviorisdisplayedbyratecoefficientsfortheWn + N2 reaction measured by Mitchell et al (96) (Figure 6). The apparent contradiction is readily understood if the simple Mn + H2 MnHH reaction mechanism is modified to include production of a weakly bound precursor complex (see Figure 2c): Mn + H2 ka
kd Mn(H2) kc MnHH.
5.
The involvement of physisorbed precursors in chemisorption reactions on macro- scopic metal surfaces is well documented (1, 97). For dissociative Mn + H2/N2 reactions, the effective bimolecular rate coefficient k r describing the reactive depletion of Mn (the quantity experimentally measured via Equation 4) can be expressed in terms of the individual elementary rate coefficients ka, kd, and kc,
Figure 6 (Top panel) Rate coefficients for the Wn + N2 reaction measured at 277,300, and 370 K. (Adapted from Reference 96.) (Middle panel) Sticking probabilities for N2 on tungsten clusters with the source maintained at room temperature (RT) and at liquid nitrogen temperature (LNT). s1 and s2 denote sticking probabilities for the first and second nitrogen molecule, respectively. (Bottom panel) Average number of nitrogen molecules adsorbed onto tungsten clusters with and without prior irradiation by 308-nm laser light. (Adapted from Reference 72.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
95 Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 96
KNICKELBEIN
describing (molecular) association, desorption, and dissociative chemisorption,respectively:k r = kakc kd + kc .
6.
If the desorption and chemisorption rate coefficients kd and kc are cast in Arrhenius form (98), the expression for k r takes on an explicit temperature dependence:k r = ka ·Ad Ac e(EdEc)/kT + 1 1 .
7.
In Equation 7, Ac,d and Ec,d are the preexponential factors and activation energies,respectively, for chemisorption (c) and desorption (d). Equation 7 predicts that k r will decrease with -increasing temperature for cases where Ed > Ec (Figure 2c) and increase with temperature when Ed < Ec (Figure 2b). For Mn + H2/N2 reac- tions, rate coefficients that increase with decreasing temperature appear to be the rule rather than the exception and have been observed for reaction of hydrogen with Nin (99), Con (100), and Nbn (84) and of nitrogen with Wn (96) and Mon (98, 101). As written, Equation 7 predicts that for reactions in which Ed > Ec, k r will decrease monotonically with increasing temperature. However, if ka is as- sumed to vary as T1/2 as predicted by simple gas kinetic considerations, k r will display a minimum at some temperature and increase with temperature thereafter.
Such an effect has been observed for the reactions of Nin and Con with hydrogen (86, 99).
Holmgren et al studied the Wn + N2 reaction with the beam-gas technique (72) and found that the measured sticking probabilities followed the same size variation and temperature dependence as the rate coefficients obtained in the flow-tube studies (96). As shown in Figure 6, the sticking probability for N2 onto cold (77 K) clusters was found to be considerably larger than those obtained for 298 K clusters,a result consistent with the involvement of a physisorbed precursor complex in the overall chemisorption mechanism. The most convincing evidence concerning the state of the adsorbed nitrogen within the products comes from photodissociation experiments. As shown in Figure 6, a large fraction of the complexes produced from the cold Wn clusters was significantly depleted when irradiated with 308-nm (XeCl) laser light, whereas those produced from room temperature clusters showed little depletion under the same conditions. These results clearly show that all the complexes produced from the room temperature clusters were strongly bound,resulting from dissociative chemisorption, whereas a significant fraction of the complexes formed by reaction of cold clusters were weakly bound complexes in which the N2 was molecularly adsorbed.
Further evidence supporting the involvement of precursors has been found in the correspondence of metal cluster reactivity with H2/D2 and their propensity to form complexes with rare gases. As shown in Figure 7, those Fen, Con, and Nin clusters displaying the highest (lowest) reactivity toward hydrogen also formed Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
97 Figure 7 Formation efficiency of Mn-rare gas van der Waals complexes and Mn + D2 rate coefficients for M = Fe, Co, Ni,and Nb. (Adapted from Reference 150.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 98
KNICKELBEIN
MnArm and MnKrm complexes with the greatest (smallest) efficiency. Because the relative propensity among a series of Mn to form van der Waals complexes with atoms or molecules in general will vary according to their polarizabilities, it is reasonable to expect that the same size-dependent pattern observed for MnAr and MnKr formation will also occur for the production of Mn(H2)m van der Waals com- plexes. No such correlation was observed for niobium clusters, however, which suggests that Nbn + H2 reactions may occur predominantly through a direct (rather than precursor mediated) channel (84). But how does this notion of precursor com- plexes controlling cluster reactivity fit with the purely electronic model (92), which also successfully accounts for Fen, Con, and Nin cluster reactivity toward hydro- gen? The connection became clear when it was recognized (92) that, formally,the polarizability α of a cluster is inversely proportional to the sum of virtual electronic excitations, α P i(E0 Ei)1, in which E0 and Ei denote ground and excited electronic state energies, respectively. Thus, those clusters having a particular low (high) HOMO-LUMO gap are predicted to have anomalously high (low) polarizabilities. Note that this model predicts that the HOMO-LUMO gap will influence reactivity in two ways: directly, by determining the height of the activation barrier, and indirectly, through determining probability of formation of precursor complexes. That cluster polarizability plays a significant role in deter- mining the rates of precursor-mediated reactions was reinforced by Pedersen et al in their recent kinetics study of the Wn + cyclo-C3H6 system (102).
The first indication of the involvement of precursors in cluster-molecule reac- tionscamenotfromexperimentsbutfrommoleculardynamicsstudiesofNi13 + D2 reactions by Jellinek & G uven c (50, 103106). As shown in Figure 8, the reactive cross sections calculated for the Ni13 + D2 reaction, calculated from molecular dynamics by using a semiempirical potential, display enhancements (reactive reso- nances) near zero relative translational energy, Etr. Examination of the trajectories revealed that these resonances were due to the enhanced probability of formation of a weakly bound complex in which the D2 molecule was physisorbed. Only after the D2 molecule diffused on the cluster surface to find the proper site did disso- ciation occur. In contrast, a significant fraction of the reactive events occurring at higher Etr were direct in nature, but because of the more stringent steric require- ments governing direct reactions, they display lower cross sections than those of the precursor-mediated channelthe only channel open at low Etr.
Bimetallic Clusters There has been increasing interest in studying the reactivity of bimetallic clusters,motivated by the prospect of observing promotion or poisoning effects akin to those observed in supported catalysts (107). The number of examples experimen- tally examined thus far (108115) is relatively small, limited in no small part by the difficulties of mass spectrometrically resolving the myriad of products that can occur given the statistical distribution of clusters M1 nM2 m, produced from targets composed of metals M1 and M2. Accordingly, most of the systems investigated Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
99 Figure 8 Calculated reaction cross sections for reaction of Ni13 with D2 as a function of relative translational energy (Etr). (Open circles) Cubo-octahedral Ni13 at 0 K;( filled circles) icosahedral Ni13 at 298 K. (From Reference 106.) to date were chosen specifically to minimize such complications, for example through the use of monoisotopic metals that have favorable atomic mass ratios.
The majority of studies regarding the reactivity of transition metal-containing bimetallic clusters have come from Kaya and coworkers (108114) and focus pri- marily on their reactivity toward hydrogen, because of the ability of this molecule to serve as a sensitive probe of cluster geometric and electronic structure. Kinetics studies of ConNan (112), ConAlm (108), NbnAlm (108), and ConVm (109) with H2 have revealed that the presence of a single heteroatom can alter the reactivity of a cluster significantly. For example, Co5V and Co7V are several times more reactive than Co6 and Co8, whereas Co12V is less reactive toward hydrogen than is Co13 (109). Similarly, the incorporation of one to three aluminum atoms was found to increase the reactivity of cobalt clusters and niobium clusters toward hydrogen (108), whereas sodium atoms did not change (or slightly inhibited) cobalt cluster reactivity toward H2 (112).
Photoionization studies of ConNan (112), NbnAlm (116), ConVm (114), and ConMnm (115) failed to reveal any correlation of their IPs with reactivity toward hydrogen. It appears that for these systems, the observed changes in reactivity on metal atom addition/substitution were not due to global changes in electronic structureasmaybereflectedinIP,butratherresultedfromgeometricrearrangement of the cluster accompanying atom substitution.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 100
KNICKELBEIN
Electronic Shell Effects Although clusters of open d-shell transition metals possess physical and chemical properties that vary in a seemingly unpredictable way from one size to the next,coinage metal clusters, Cun, Agn, and Aun, exhibit many properties having an un- derlying periodicity. In particular, studies of physical properties such as ionization potentials and electron affinities and their relative stabilities toward unimolecular dissociation have shown that certain clusters, namely those that have 8, 18, 20,34, 40 . . . valence electrons, are special and stand out from the others (117 130). It is now well established that this periodicity reflects the organization of the delocalized valence electrons of the clusters into degenerate levels, forming shells akin to those displayed by atoms. Those clusters possessing filled electron shells are predicted to be spherical in shape, and it is these closed-shell clusters that typically stand out as being special (131134). An odd-even alternation effect in cluster properties is often observed to be superimposed on the major spherical shell-filling structure and is due to the filling of electron levels in ellipsoidal (rather than strictly spherical) particles (131, 135, 136).
Much less is known about the chemical properties of coinage metal clusters,in particular whether this electronic shell-filling phenomenon, which dramatically influences their physical properties, affects their chemical behavior as well. Gen- erally, reactivity surveys have revealed many similarities of the reaction channels displayed by Cun, Agn, and Aun to those of the corresponding macroscopic sur- faces (5, 71, 77, 82, 137142). Copper clusters, for example, are reactive toward carbon monoxide (137, 139) and oxygen (71, 143), but they are essentially inert toward molecular hydrogen adsorption (5, 71), behavior that parallels that ob- served on bulk copper surfaces. However, underlying the overall similarities in their behavior, a size-dependent fine structure with its origin in the periodic filling of electron shells can sometimes be observed. For example, studies of CunCO+ complexes found that those species possessing a closed electronic shell, namely Cu7CO+ and Cu17CO+, were more stable toward collision-induced dissociation than were their open shell neighbors (139). As illustrated in Figure 9, flow-tube kinetics studies of copper clusters by Winter et al (143) revealed that Cu20, Cu40,and Cu92, clusters possessing closed electronic subshells, are less reactive toward molecular oxygen than are their open subshell neighbors. This inertness of closed shell copper clusters toward oxygen chemisorption is also reflected in the single collision sticking probabilities measured by Andersson et al (71) (Figure 9). In this system, the lower reactivities of the high-IP, closed shell copper clusters are readily understood in terms of an activation barrier involving formation of a Cu+ n O 2 complex. Interesting electronic effects have also been observed in the photodis- sociation studies of AgnOCS complexes (144), in which low-IP, odd-n com- plexes follow the AgnS + CO dissociation pathway, whereas the high-IP, even-n complexes exhibit simple Agn + OCS desorption. These results are consistent with the involvement of a dissociative Ag+ n OCScharge transfer complex that,at λ = 308 nm, is energetically accessible only in the odd-n complexes.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
101 Figure 9 (Top panel) Sticking coefficients for reaction of copper clusters with oxygen.
(Adapted from Reference 71.) (a) Photoionization time-of-flight (TOF) mass spectrum of Cun recorded at 222 nm (5.6 eV) with pure helium carrier gas. (b) Photoionization TOF mass spectrum recorded at 193 nm (6.4 eV) with 4.2 mTorr O2 added to the carrier gas stream. Particularly unreactive Cun species are labeled according to their values of n; (asterisks) CunOm species. (c) The free energy of adsorption water molecules onto copper clusters. (Reproduced from Reference 143 with permission.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 102
KNICKELBEIN
Not all reactions of coinage metal clusters are sensitive to electronic shell structure. For example, the binding energy of water molecules to copper clusters follows a pattern of geometric (icosahedral) shell and subshell closings character- izing the underlying clusters, a localrather than globalelectronic effect (143) (Figure 9). Generally, it appears that association reactions involving electron pair donating molecules that form coordination-like bonds are facile, such that neither their reactive pathways nor their rates depend on the global electronic structure of the underlying clusters.
Reactions at Equilibrium Many cluster-molecule reactions proceed irreversibly on the timescale of the ex- periment, as a consequence of the relative high binding energy for transition metals with commonly investigated molecular reactants such as hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon monoxide. It is this assumption of irreversibility that underpins the de- termination of rate coefficients for association reactions using the methods of pseudofirst order kinetics in flow-tube experiments (vide supra). However, for molecules that bind more weakly, equilibrium can be achieved, even within the short contact times of flow-tube chemistry experiments: MnAm1 + A MnAm, Keq = [MnAm] [MnAm1][A].
8.
Assuming that the mass spectrometric abundances measured for Mn A+ m and MnA+ m1 reflect the actual concentrations of the corresponding neutral cluster adsorbate species produced in the flow-tube reactor, the thermodynamic relation- ship RTln(Keq) = 1G0 ads = 1H0 ads + T1S0 ads relating the equilibrium constant with free energy can be used to extract the entropies(1S0 ads) and enthalpies (1H0 ads) of adsorption, via vant Hoff plots. This approach has been used to measure the adsorption enthalpies of NH3 onto Con and Nin (145), NH3 on Agn (81, 138), and N2 on Nin (87). The values of 1H0 ads obtained in each of these studies, although similar in magnitude to those found on the corresponding extended metal surfaces,vary somewhat with cluster size. For NH3 on Agn, the size variation in 1H0 ads was found (81) to be particularly large, varying from about 7 kcal mol1 for Ag7 to approximately 17 kcal mol1 for Ag2, Ag16, and Ag17, thus bracketing the 1H0 ads value of 11 kcal mol1 calculated for NH3 adsorption on bulk silver.
MOLECULAR VERSUS DISSOCIATIVE CHEMISORPTION: The Structure of The Complex Although techniques for the measurement of the rate coefficients (or sticking prob- abilities) of Mn + A reactions are now well established, methods for determining the state of the adsorbate species within the Mn A complex (i.e. whether molecu- larly chemisorbed, dissociatively chemisorbed, or physisorbed) are still at a more Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
103 primitive stage of development. Lacking other information, the chemisorbed state of the reactant molecule A within the Mn Am complexes is often assumed to be that observed on the corresponding macroscopic transition metal surface. The sparsity andtransientnatureofthesamplescombinedwiththeenormousdensityofvibronic states of these large molecules generally preclude the application of traditional spectroscopic techniques of structure elucidation. The presence of multiple iso- mers only compounds the problem. Fortunately, photoionization spectroscopy and IR spectroscopy are two generally applicable techniques that, in combination, can tell us much of what we wish to know about the nature of cluster-adsorbate binding.
PhotoionizationThresholdShifts: SimpleElectrostaticModels Even without a detailed knowledge of cluster structure, it is possible to glean im- portant information on the nature of the cluster-adsorbate complex by comparing the observed variation of cluster IP with adsorbate coverage with the predictions of simple electrostatic models. A number of studies have demonstrated that adsorbate addition can have a significant effect on cluster IP, analogous to the work function changes, 1φ, accompanying chemisorption and physisorption of atoms and small molecules on macroscopic metal surfaces (146156). The basic premise underly- ing the application of classical electrostatic models to cluster-adsorbate systems is that to first order, the underlying metal cluster can be treated as a conducting sphere,in the same way that metal surfaces are treated as perfectly smooth, conducting planes. Fortunately, the available evidence suggests that transition metal clusters containing more than five or six atoms tend to adopt compact, spheroidal shapes in order to maximize the bonding interaction among atoms, thus conforming to the spherical assumption of the model to first order. Of course, such simple models can be expected to break down for very small clusters in which deviations from sphericity are large, or when the cluster-molecule reaction leads to a complete structural rearrangement of the metal cluster, for example in reactions leading to ionic oxide or halide lattice clusters.
For adsorbates possessing a permanent dipole moment, 1IP can amount to sev- eral tenths of an electron volt per adsorbed atom or molecule for clusters containing up to a few tens of metal atoms. It is generally observed that electron donating species (e.g. NH3) with dipole moments oriented toward the metal cluster sur- face induce an IP decrease (146, 148), whereas electron withdrawing species (e.g. atomic hydrogen) lead to an IP increase (147, 151), analogous to the 1φ effects observed on bulk metal surfaces. For a spherical cluster of radius R containing m identical adsorbate molecules with dipole moment , a simple Born-Haber cycle equates adsorbate-induced IP changes to the changes in adsorbate binding energy resulting from ionization of the cluster:
1IP =
em (R + δ)2 ,
9.
where e is the elementary charge, and δ is the effective distance of the (point) dipole from the cluster surface (146, 148). In this case, 1IP is determined by Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 104
KNICKELBEIN
Figure 10 Vertical ionization potentials (IPs) for Nin(NH3)m, along with the predic- tions of Equation 9 (solid curve). (Reproduced from Reference 148 with permission.) the additional energy of the charge-permanent dipole pair(s) in the photoion and is predicted to be positive if the dipole is oriented away from the cluster and negative if oriented toward the cluster. An example of the latter case is illustrated in Figure 10 for ammonia on nickel clusters, in which significant IP lowering is observed (148).
The adsorbate molecule (or atom) need not possess a permanent dipole moment as a free entity in order to induce an IP change when adsorbed. For example,in reactions of hydrogen with Vn, Nbn, Fen, and Nin, it has been observed that the IPs of the resulting cluster-hydrogen complexes are higher than those of the corresponding bare clusters, indicating that the hydrogen atom forms a bond having a net dipole pointing away from the cluster (151, 156, 157). This observation is consistent with hydride formation, confirming that chemisorption is dissociative rather than molecular.
A similar electrostatic model (149, 150) predicts that adsorption of nonpolar species onto metal clusters will lead to a change in IP that is somewhat smaller in magnitude than those due to the presence of typical dipolar adsorbates. In this case,the sign of 1IP is predicted to be always negative and is due to the stabilizing effect of the charge-induced dipole interaction in the nascent photoion (149, 150). This IP-lowering effect has been demonstrated in photoionization studies of NbnArm (149, 150), AunXem (153), NinHm(H2)p (156), and FenHm(H2)p complexes (157).
The magnitude of 1IP is predicted (149, 150) to be proportional to the static polarizability α of the adsorbate:
1IP =
αe2m 2(R + δ)4 .
10.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
105 Figure 11 The two lowest-lying isomers of Ag3C2H4 calculated from density func- tional theory (158).
Photoionizationstudiesofethyleneadsorptionontosilverclustershavealsodemon- strated such IP-lowering behavior (78). Quantitatively, Equation 10 predicts 1IP per adsorbed ethylene molecule of 0.16 eV and 0.05 eV for Ag5 and Ag15,respectively, values that are considerably smaller than the experimentally ob- served 1IP values of approximately 0.3 eV and 0.1 eV per ethylene molecule for Ag5(C2H4)m and Ag15(C2H4)m. This suggests that ethylene does not behave merely as a polarizable point body on the surface of silver clusters (i.e. bound simply by van der Waals forces), but rather that it binds with a net ethylene cluster charge donation, thus forming a polar π-bonded complex having a net dipole moment pointing toward the cluster. This conjecture has been put on a firmer theoretical footing via gradient-corrected density-functional theory calcu- lations of Ag3(C2H4) performed by Salian et al (158). These calculations revealed two low-lying minima, the structures of which are shown in Figure 11. The IP of the lowest-energy isomer (Figure 11a) is predicted to lie 0.37 eV lower than that calculated for bare Ag3, in quantative agreement with the experimentally deter- mined range for 1IP (78), whereas the IP of the higher-energy isomer (Figure 11b) is predicted to be 0.16 eV above that of the bare trimer.
Infrared Spectroscopy Complementary information regarding the nature of cluster-adsorbate bonding can be obtained by probing the adsorbed species itself using IR photodissociation spec- troscopy. The IR photodissociation spectra obtained by Koretsky & Knickelbein (78) for small silver clusterethylene complexes, Agn(C2H4)m and Agn(C2D4)m,are shown in Figure 12. The molecular nature of the chemisorption in Agn(C2H4)m is immediately confirmed by the prominent depletion bands in the 935960 cm1 range, assignable to the IR-active ν7 (b1u) mode and/or to the IR-inactive ν8 (b2g) mode of C2H4, which in the gas-phase occur at 949 cm1 and 943 cm1, respec- tively. As shown in Figure 12, many of the depletion features displayed by the Agn(C2H4)m species appear to be composed of several partially resolved bands.
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 106
KNICKELBEIN
Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
107 This complexity may be due to presence of both ν7 and ν8 bands. Although the ν8 mode is not IR active for gas-phase (D2h) ethylene, adsorption onto the surface of the silver clusters could induce this fundamental to become IR-allowed via symmetry breaking. For reduction of D2h to C2h, C2v, and Cs point groups, the b2g irreducible representation resolves to bg, b1, and a species, respectively. Of these, the latter two are IR active. Alternatively, it is possible that all the observed bands are assignable solely to the IR-allowed ν7 mode of ethylene, but arise from different Agn isomers than those that produce the 940 cm1 band, or to the coex- istence of complexes in which ethylene molecules occupy topologically different sites on the surface of the clusters.
As shown in Figure 12, the photodissociation spectra of Agn(C2D4)m com- plexes each display two depletion features. The bands around 10701080 cm1 are readily assigned to the IR-active ν12 (b3u) mode of ethylene-d4, which lies at 1078 cm1 in the gas phase. The second feature near 980 cm1 is due to the ν3 (ag) fundamental that, although IR-inactive for gas-phase ethylene, becomes dipole allowed for adsorbed ethylene adopting effective C2v or Cs symmetries within the complex. The observation of the ν3 band, combined with the absence of the ν6 (b1g) fundamental, which lies at 1006 cm1 in the gas phase and is IR-active under Cs (but not C2v) symmetry, confirms that ethylene effectively adopts a C2v local symmetry within the complexes, as found explicitly by density-functional theory calculations of Ag3C2H4 (Figure 11). It is notable that the intensity of the nominally forbidden ag band is equal to or greater than that of the allowed b3u feature. The multiplicity of the ag features in the Agn(C2D4)m complexes may,as discussed above for Agn(C2H4)m, reflect the presence of multiple Agn iso- mers, or of different bonding arrangements of C2D4, within a given complex. The small magnitude of the shifts in the depletion band frequencies in Agn(C2H4)m and Agn(C2D4)m compared with the fundamentals of free ethylene confirms a relatively weak cluster-ethylene interaction.
IR photodissociation spectroscopy has also been used to obtain adsorbate vi- brational spectra for complexes of ammonia with Agn (80, 81, 159) and Fen (160);methanol with Fen (7376), Cun/Agn/Aun (79) and Au+ n (82, 83); benzene with Agn (77); and ethylene oxide with Agn (78).
In all cases, simple molecular adsorption was confirmed, with the band positions of the adsorbed molecule shifted tens of wavenumbers from those of the gas-phase values as is typically ob- served on macroscopic surfaces (161, 162). Except for Agn(ammonia)m (80, 81) and Aun(methanol)+ m (83), little variation of band position with the size of the underlying cluster (n) was observed.
The ability of IR photodissociation spectroscopy to distinguish between molec- ular and dissociative chemisorption unambiguously was recently demonstrated in a study of hydrogenated and deuterated iron clusters, FenHm and FenDm, for n = 920 (157). Selected spectra for this system are shown in Figure 13. Although
Figure 12 Infrared photodissociation spectra of Agn(C2H4)m and Agn(C2D4)m.
(Reproduced from Reference 78 with permission.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 108
KNICKELBEIN
the spectra for other FenHm and FenDm complexes in then = 920 are qualitatively similar, consisting of many overlapping bands of 20 cm1 width, no two spectra are exactly alike. The dissimilarity of the FenHm and the corresponding FenDm species confirms that the depletion features are due to absorption by hydrogen- and deuterium-containing chromophores. The observed bands lie in the region of the spectrum where the stretching fundamentals of H on Fe (110) have been observed (163); however, the surface spectrum is simple by comparison, consisting of only two bands: the stretching mode at 1060 cm1 and the bend at 880 cm1 (no vibrational spectra of deuterium atoms adsorbed on iron surfaces have yet been measured). Complexes in which hydrogen was molecularly adsorbed would be expected to display bands not in this region of the spectrum but rather at much lower frequencies (164). Further evidence that the hydrogen within the FenHm and FenDm complexes is atomic rather than molecular was provided by photoionization experiments in which cluster IPs were observed to increase on reaction with H2 (vide supra).
Interpretation of these complicated spectra was aided by density functional cal- culations, performed for highly symmetric (Th) model complexes, Fe13H14 and Fe13D14, that were chosen for computational simplicity. For Fe13H14, a number of vibrational fundamentals involving H stretching and bending motion are predicted to lie within the 8001500 cm1 range, but only those at 850, 1300, and 1460 cm1 are IR-active and only the high frequency wing of the 850 cm1 band reaches into the 8801090 cm1 experimentally probed (see Figure 13). For Fe13D14, the cor- responding IR-active fundamentals are predicted to lie at 606, 925, and 1040 cm1.
Note that the stoichiometry of the computational model differs from that of the experimentally observed hydrogen-saturated complex (Fe13H12.) This illustrates the general observation that the measured FenHm/FenDm saturation stoichiome- tries for n = 920 are difficult if not impossible to rationalize using chemically intuitive, highly symmetric structural models. The sparsity of the calculated spec- tra compared with those measured experimentally for Fe13H12 and Fe13D12 (see Figure 13) is likely a consequence of the high symmetry of the model, whereby the resulting degeneracies and forbidden transitions reduce the number of predicted IR bands.
OUTLOOK
Despite the explosion of activity over the past 15 years, the field of metal cluster chemistry remains largely unexplored territory, even at the simplest descriptive level. And although many metal cluster-molecule systems have yet to be examined forthefirsttime, eventhemostthoroughlystudiedmetalcluster-moleculereactions cannot be fully understood without a detailed knowledge of the geometric and electronic structures of the clusters themselvesstill the pieces of the structure- reactivity puzzle that are most difficult to obtain. There is no single technique that Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
109 Figure 13 Infrared (IR) photodissociation spectra of selected FenHm. The calculated IR spectra for Fe13H14 and Fe13D14 (dotted curves) are shown with the spectra of Fe13H12 and Fe13D12. (Reproduced from Reference 157 with permission.) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ? 110
KNICKELBEIN
Figure 13 (Continued) Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1999.50:79-115. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org by University of Edinburgh on 06/02/12. For personal use only. ?
REACTIONS OF METAL CLUSTERS
111 will tell us all we wish to know about the reaction rates and pathways of transition metal clusters. Instead, as in traditional surface science, which uses a number of probes to unravel the details of chemisorption, developing a detailed understanding of metal cluster reactions will require the application of many complementary methods, both experimental and theoretical.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do computational methods, particularly density functional theory (DFT) and cluster models, enhance our ability to predict, analyze, and understand the catalytic activity of doped oxide catalysts in alkane activation, and what are the key considerations, challenges, and potential benefits of these approaches in terms of accuracy, efficiency, and the exploration of new catalytic materials?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 