<quotes>

[1] "We have shown that many trends related to chemical processes relevant to catalytic chemistry of oxide surfaces can be predicted (or rationalized) by a few rules pertaining to the Lewis acidbase properties of the chemicals involved."
[2] "These rules seem general (we found no exceptions); the effects predicted by them are large; and they seem to apply any time a chemical process involves a Lewis acid and a base, regardless of the chemical nature of the pair."
[3] "If a surface is modified to be a Lewis acid, to confer on it certain properties, these properties can be substantially suppressed by adsorbing on the surface a Lewis base. The system behaves as if the base neutralizes the acid."
[4] "In some cases, an adsorbed species can have two isomers, one that is a base and the other that is an acid. If that species is coadsorbed with a Lewis acid, it will take the structure that is a base. If it is coadsorbed with a Lewis base, it will take the structure in which it is an acid."
[5] "Oxides doped with low-valence dopants are Lewis acids. Because of this, they lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation, increase the binding energy of various bases (e.g., H, CH3, CO) to the surface of the doped oxide, and make the dissociative adsorption an alkane RH more exothermic (because the fragments R and H produced by dissociation are Lewis bases and the surface is a Lewis acid)."
[6] "Reducible oxides are Lewis acids, and this acidity lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation and increases the binding energy of single metal atoms."
[7] "High-valence dopants are Lewis bases, and they adsorb strongly Lewis acids such as O2 or X2 (X is a halogen)."
[8] "If the basicity of the dopant is not excessive, the acidity of the adsorbed oxygen or Br2 is not completely neutralized, and they are able to react with Lewis bases."
[9] "If the dopant is very basic, the O2 molecule (or X2) adsorbed on it is bound too strongly, and it is not chemically active."
[10] "In some cases the group formed by the dopant with O2 adsorbed on it acts as a low-valence dopant and activates surface oxygen."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The influence of same-valence dopants (SVDs) and high-valence dopants (HVDs) on the catalytic properties of different metal oxides can be predicted by rules related to Lewis acid-base properties. These rules are general and apply to any chemical process involving a Lewis acid and a base. The presence of a Lewis base can suppress properties conferred by modifying a surface to be a Lewis acid. Adsorbed species can change isomers based on coadsorbed Lewis acids or bases. Oxides doped with low-valence dopants become Lewis acids, affecting oxygen vacancy formation and base binding. Reducible oxides are Lewis acids, influencing oxygen vacancy formation and metal atom binding. HVDs are Lewis bases that strongly adsorb Lewis acids like O2 or X2. The reactivity of adsorbed oxygen or Br2 with Lewis bases depends on the dopant's basicity. In some cases, a dopant with O2 adsorbed on it can act as a low-valence dopant, activating surface oxygen.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.相同价态掺杂剂(SVDs)和高价态掺杂剂(HVDs)对不同金属氧化物催化性能的影响可以通过与路易斯酸碱性质相关的规则来预测。这些规则是通用的，适用于任何涉及路易斯酸和碱的化学过程。路易斯碱的存在可以抑制通过将表面改性为路易斯酸而获得的性质。吸附物种可以根据共吸附的路易斯酸或碱改变异构体。用低价态掺杂剂掺杂的氧化物成为路易斯酸，影响氧空位的形成和碱的结合。可还原氧化物是路易斯酸，影响氧空位的形成和金属原子的结合。HVDs是路易斯碱，强烈吸附O2或X2等路易斯酸。吸附氧或Br2与路易斯碱反应的活性取决于掺杂剂的碱性。在某些情况下，吸附O2上的掺杂剂可以作为低价态掺杂剂，激活表面氧。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
