I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Periodic Density Functional Theory Study of Propane Dehydrogenation over Perfect Ga2O3(100) Surface Yan Liu, Zhen Hua Li,* Jing Lu, and Kang-Nian Fan* Shanghai Key Laboratory of Molecular Catalysis and InnoVatiVe Materials, Center for Theoretical Chemical Physics, Department of Chemistry, Fudan UniVersity, Shanghai, 200433, China ReceiVed: September 04, 2008; ReVised Manuscript ReceiVed: October 28, 2008 Propane dehydrogenation over perfect Ga2O3(100) was studied in detail by periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations. It was found that the initial C-H bond activation mainly follows a radical mechanism that the two-coordinated surface oxygen site (O(2)) abstracts a hydrogen atom from propane with the formation of propyl radical and hydroxyl group (O(2)H). Physically adsorbed propyl radical can easily form propoxide or propylgallium intermediate. Subsequently, propene is formed by a second H abstraction from propyl,propoxide, or propylgallium by surface oxygen and Ga sites. H abstraction by O(2) site always has low energy barrier. However, it is difficult for the hydrogen atoms in the hydroxyl groups to leave the surface in the form of either H2 or H2O. In addition, propene formed through H abstraction by oxygen site has high adsorption energy and is prone to further dehydrogenation or oligomerization, leading to fast deactivation of the catalyst. On the other hand, the formation of H2 from GaH and hydroxyl group is much easier, although the formation of GaH has to overcome high energy barrier. Thus, there is a shift of rate-determining step for propane dehydrogenation: at the initial stage of the reaction, the rate-determining step is H abstraction by oxygen sites and then it shifts to H abstraction from various propyl sources by Ga sites to form gallium hydrides after the surface oxygen sites are consumed. Our results also indicate that dehydrogenation of propane mainly follows a direct dehydrogenation mechanism (DDH), whereas oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) is energetically less feasible but cannot be ruled out in the presence of mild oxidant such as CO2.
1. Introduction
Given the ever-increasing worldwide demand for olefins,alternative inexpensive ways to produce light olefins in industry are highly desired.1 Propene is a useful raw material for polymers and a number of chemical products, for example,polypropene, polyacrylonitrile, acrolein, and acrylic acid. Direct dehydrogenation of propane is an endothermic process which requires relatively high temperatures to obtain a high yield of propene. However, increasing temperatures would favor thermal cracking of light alkanes to carbon deposition and always lead to decrease of the product yield. Hence, the development of highly efficient catalyst has been of interest recently. Besides,considering the overoxidation in the presence of O2, CO2 also becomes a promising mild oxidant introduced in the alkanes dehydrogenation reactions2-10 because CO2 would partially suppress the catalyst deactivation by carbon deposition through Boudouard reaction.11,12 In the presence or absence of CO2, a series of metal oxide catalysts have been studied in the dehydrogenation of alkanes,and among them Ga2O3 is a highly effective one.13 Many experimental studies have shown that Ga2O3-based catalysts are highly active and selective in the dehydrogenation of alkanes.11-23 On the gallium oxide catalyst, the selectivity of alkene products is usually above 90%, and the activity is also good. Furthermore, Ga2O3 has been widely used as support or promoter in alkanes aromatization,24,25 nitrogen oxides reduction,26,27 and methanol synthesis.28,29 Therefore, gallium oxide is a very important oxide and is of general interest to chemists. However, the high activity of gallium oxide in light alkane dehydrogenation reaction was observed only at the initial stage of the reaction. The activity of catalyst would decrease quickly in 1 h. Micgorczyk30 suggested that carbon deposition on the Ga2O3 surface may contribute to the decrease in propene yield and introduced CO2 in the reaction to remove carbon deposition and improve propene yield. Some results also show that CO2 has a promoting effect on dehydrogenation activity over Ga2O3/TiO2, but a negative effect over Ga2O3/ZrO2 and Ga2O3/Al2O3.15 In order to under- stand the rapid decrease of the catalytic activity, a detailed mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on gallium oxide surface is necessary.
To pinpoint alkane activation mechanism on gallium oxide is a great challenge to both experiment and theory. So far, there is no agreement on the dehydrogenation mechanism of alkanes on gallium oxide and gallium-containing catalysts. It is generally accepted that alkane dehydrogenation is a three-step reaction composed of two consecutive C-H activation steps and a final step of hydrogen desorption from the surface. However, it is still not very clear in what form, mainly in H2 or H2O, hydrogen desorbs from the surface at the initial stage of the reaction. If it is H2, the reaction mechanism is a direct dehydrogenation (DDH) mechanism, and if not, the reaction mechanism is an oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mechanism. ODH reaction is thermodynamically favorable but leads to the reduction of the surface and thus oxidant is needed to reoxidize the catalyst to continue the catalytic cycle, or the activity of the catalyst would decrease with the consuming of oxygen in the catalyst.
O2 is widely used as oxidant but it leads to deep oxidation of alkane and decrease of alkene selectivity. Mild oxidant such as CO2 can be used. Noticing that propane dehydrogenation reaction could react in the presence or absence of CO2, Yue * To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: lizhenhua@ fudan.edu.cn; knfan@fudan.edu.cn.
J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 2038220392
20382
10.1021/jp807864z CCC: $40.75
2008 American Chemical Society Published on Web 12/04/2008 and co-worker14,15 proposed that ODH mechanism is in- applicable to gallium oxide or supported gallium oxide because gallium oxide is hard to reduce.24 However, recent TPR experiment found that on the gallium oxide 30% of O was removed as H2O during the reduction in H2 at 823 K, a typical reaction temperature for alkane dehydrogenation on Ga2O3.23 In addition, DDH mechanism cannot explain some experimental results; for example, in the reoxidation of gallium oxide by CO2 after treatment with H2 and C3H8, the amount of CO after H2 treatment is much lower than that after C3H8 treatment.17 Theoretically, only van Santen et al. have studied the possibility of forming H2O from the dehydrogenation of ethane over isolated gallyl ions (GaO+) as a model for the active sites in oxidized Ga/ZSM-5 zeolite.31 They found that the formation of H2 is highly endothermic and requires high activation energy,while the recombination of hydroxyl and hydride leading to reduction of [HO-Ga-H]+ to Ga+ via H2O elimination is easier.
Another unsettled issue in the reaction mechanism is the role of Ga sites in the C-H bond activation. It is well-known that the acid or basic property of the active sites is of crucial importance for the activity of metal oxide catalysts in many reactions. For some acid oxide catalysts, for example Ga2O3, ZnO, CuO, Fe2O3, W2O3, and Al2O3, the Lewis acid sites, i.e., Ga, Zn, Cu, Fe, W, and Al sites, are considered to be more active in dehydrogenation reactions.13,23,32-40 The role of gallium sites in the dehydrogenation reactions on supported or unsup- ported Ga2O3 catalysts have been examined by various studies,but no agreement has been reached. Some authors14,15,41 proposed that the C-H bond in propane is polarized by gallium-oxygen pairs. It is the gallium atom that abstracts hydrogen atom to form gallium hydride and gallium alkoxide, and then propene is formed by a second H abstraction by neighboring oxygen sites. However, an IR experiment suggested that the C-H bond of ethane is initially activated by unsaturated gallium atom and results in the formation of hydroxyl and carbon-gallium bond.42 Some experimental results also showed that gallium hydride can only be detected at elevated temperatures42-44 and Kazansky et al.42 suggested that it is formed due to subsequent decomposi- tion of gallium-alkyl species by the gallium sites. In addition,in the study of alkane dehydrogenation on Ga-doped H-ZSM5 catalyst, Guisnet et al. proposed that gallium sites act as promoter to recombinative hydrogen removal during alkane dehydrogenation.45 Theoretically, Broclawik et al.46 suggested that gallium sites play important roles in C-H bond activation. van Santen et al.31,47 and Nascimento et al.48 have studied the role of gallium sites in the alkane dehydrogenation catalyzed by gallium-exchanged zeolite using DFT methods. However,they concluded that gallium atoms act just as alkyl acceptors.
Fu et al.49-51 have systematically studied the initial C-H activation of light alkanes on MoO3, WO3, CrO3, and V2O5 metal oxides employing cluster models. They found that on MoO3, CrO3, and V2O5 the C-H activation by the MdO acid-base pair is an unfavorable pathway due to very high energy barrier,but on WO3 it is a favorable pathway with a low enthalpy barrier of 43.6 kcal/mol at 873 K due to the high polarity of the WdO bond. Since Ga-O bonds in Ga2O3 are also highly polar bonds,42 could the C-H activation on the Ga-O acid-base pair be a favorable pathway?
To date, there is, to our knowledge, no systematic theoretical work on the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on gallium oxide surface. Aiming to gain a clear insight into the dehydro- genation mechanism of alkanes on the Ga2O3 catalysts, here we have studied the conversion of propane to propene on pure gallium oxide surface. It is generally accepted that on metal oxides propene formation is through the second C-H bond activation of propoxide. Alternatively, we propose that propene can be formed not only from chemical adsorbed propyl intermediate (propylgallium or propoxide) but also from physi- cally adsorbed propyl radical. Hence, in the present study we show that (i) the initial C-H bond can be activated by the active sites on the surface, resulting a propyl radical physically or chemically absorbed on the surface; (ii) the propoxide or propylgallium species or propyl radical releases a H atom to form propene; and (iii) the last step is hydrogen desorption from the surface in the form of H2 as the major product to complete the catalytic cycle or in the form of H2O as a minor product leading to the reduction of the catalyst.
2. Model and Computational Details
Among the four polymorphs (R-, -, γ-, and δ-Ga2O3) of gallium oxide, -Ga2O3 exhibits the highest dehydrogenation activity, high thermal stability, and relatively high specific surface area.14,52,53 Monoclinic -Ga2O3 belongs to the C2/m space group with lattice parameters a ) 12.23 Å, b ) 3.04 Å,c ) 5.80 Å, and  ) 103.70.54 Four Ga2O3 units exist in a crystallographic unit cell which consists of two primitive unit cells (Figure 1a). The lattice is composed of two inequivalent Ga sites and three inequivalent O sites.55 Half of the gallium sites are forms of slightly distorted tetrahedron with four oxygen ions, named Ga(t), and the other half are forms of highly distorted octahedron with oxygen ions, named Ga(o). As for oxygen, two different oxygen sites are 3-fold coordinated (one is shared by one octahedron and two tetrahedron, named O(2),the other is shared by two octahedron and one tetrahedron,named O(3)), and the third oxygen sites is 4-fold coordinated which lies at the corner of three octahedrons and one tetra- hedrons, named O(4). -Ga2O3(100)surfacehavebeenstudiedinpreviousstudies.56-60 Bermudez had studied the structure and properties of four different monoclinic -Ga2O3 surface, showing that (100) surface is the most stable surface.61 In the present study, Ga2O3(100) surface is simulated by a unit cell (p(4×2), 12.37 Å × 11.79 Å) with an 20 Å vacuum region between slabs. -Ga2O3(100) surface is terminated in rows of unsaturated O(2) with each back-bonded to two tetrahedral gallium Ga(t) sites and of unsaturated gallium Ga(o) sites with each bonded to two O(3) sites and O(4) sites (Figure 1b). In the present study, Ga2O3(100) surface is routinely modeled by a one-layer slab with half of atoms allowed to relax. It is expected that unsaturated sites are more active than saturated ones, and thus Ga(t) sites and O(4) sites have little activity. Hence, we focus on the Ga(o) (named Figure 1. (a) Unit cell of -Ga2O3; (b) unit cell of the Ga2O3(100) surface.Propane Dehydrogenation over Perfect Ga2O3(100) Surface
J. Phys. Chem. C, Vol. 112, No. 51, 2008
20383 Ga without specific mentioning hereafter), O(2), and O(3) active sites on the Ga2O3(100) surface.
All total energy density functional theory calculations were carried out using the SIESTA package with numerical atomic orbital basis sets and Troullier-Martins norm-conserving pseudopotentials.62,63 The exchange-correlation functional uti- lized is the generalized gradient approximation PBE method,known as GGA-PBE.64 A double- polarization basis set (DZP) was employed. The orbital-confining cutoff radii were deter- mined from an energy shift of 0.01 eV except for hydrogen,for which a DZP basis set optimized for H2 was used.65 The energy cutoff for the real space grid used to represent the density was set as 150 Ry. To further speed up calculations, the Kohn-Sham equations were solved by an iterative parallel diagonalization method that utilizes the ScaLAPACK subroutine pdsygvx with two-dimensional block cyclically distributed matrix.36 The Broyden method was employed for geometry relaxation until the Cartesian forces on each relaxed atom were all less than 0.1 eV/Å. Only Γ-point was used to sample the Brillouin zone in our calculations. Spin polarization was considered during all the calculations.
A constrained minimization scheme was employed to search the transition states (TS) on the potential energy surface.66,67 A TS is identified when the forces on the atoms vanish and the energy is a maximum along the reaction coordinate but a minimum with respect to all of the other degrees of freedom.
Energy barrier is determined as the energy difference between the saddle point and the initial state. Adsorption energy (Eads) is calculated as Eads ) E(adsorbate+substrate) - (Eadsorbate + Esubstrate) where a process with a negative Eads is exothermic.
3. Results and Analysis
3.1. Molecular Adsorption of Propane. We have first
examined the molecular absorption of propane on various active sites. The potential energy surface for the adsorption is found to be quite flat. The most favorable adsorption site for propane is near the unsaturated Ga site, and the adsorption energy is calculated to be -0.7 kcal/mol. The results show that propane undergoes preliminary weak adsorption on the surface prior to dissociation. Indeed, it was concluded that hydrocarbon mol- ecules adsorb weakly on metal sites.46 Considering that the dehydrogenation of propane is carried out at high temperatures,propane in the gas phase is more stable than it is on the surface due to the large entropy contribution of the gas phase molecules.
In agreement with theoretical findings, no molecular adsorption of propane has been detected by IR spectroscopy.42
3.2. First Stepsthe Activation of the First C-H Bond.
The C-H bond of the methyl or methylene group of propane will be broken with n-propoxide or i-propoxide formed on the surface. It is well-known from thermodynamics that the C-H bond in the methyl group is stronger than the C-H bond in the methylene group. Experimental results indicated that the C-H bond cleavage from the methylene group was more feasible than that from the methyl group both thermodynamically and kinetically.68-71 Several theoretical studies also showed that the energy barrier for breaking the C-H bond of the methyl group was higher than that of the methylene group.49,72 We have calculated the energy barriers for hydrogen abstractions by O(2) site through a radical mechanism and found that the energy barrier for breaking the methyl C-H bond is 9.2 kcal/mol higher than that for breaking the methylene C-H bond, which tallies with previous theoretical study.72 Therefore, in the present study,we will also focus on the breaking of the methylene C-H bond as other theoretical studies have done on the dehydrogenation of propane on V2O572 and MoO349,73 catalysts.
Previous studies suggest that there are two possible mecha- nisms for the initial C-H bond activation of propane on metal oxide.49,74 One is heterolytic dissociation mechanism, in which the acid-base pair (Ga-O) polarizes and then breaks the C-H bond. Two distinct processes have been considered in the present study for this mechanism: C3H8 + O-Ga f OH + C3H7Ga (1) C3H8 + Ga-O f GaH + C3H7O (2) In process (1) the proton of propane and the negatively charged propyl fragment C3H7δ- form bonds with the oxygen and gallium sites, respectively, while in process (2) the negatively charged H atom forms bond with the gallium site, and the positively charged propyl group C3H7δ+ forms bond with the oxygen site.
The other is homolytic dissociation mechanism, in which the active site pair is composed of two O or two Ga active sites,and the C-H bond is polarized and activated by O or Ga sites.
There are also two distinct processes: C3H8 + O-O f OH + C3H7O (3) C3H8 + Ga-Ga f GaH + C3H7Ga (4) Since there are three types of available active sites (O(2), O(3), Ga) on the surface, the activation of the initial C-H bond in propane could result in nine product combinations, namely, O(2)-Ga,O(3)-Ga,Ga-O(2),Ga-O(3),O(2)-O(2),O(2)-O(3), O(3)-O(2), O(3)-O(3), and Ga-Ga, where the H atom is always bonded to the first atom, the propyl group is bonded to the second atom, and to make the discussions brief we have omitted them. For each product combination, there are two possible types of pathways. One belongs to a concerted mechanism (C): active site pair Ga-O, O-O, or Ga-Ga activates the C-H bond of propane and then in one elementary reaction step the propane reacts with two adjacent atoms on the surface in a concerted way. These pathways feature cyclic TSs, involving 4e in these processes.49 The other one belongs to a radical mechanism (R): the oxygen or gallium active site activates the C-H bond of propane, and abstracts an H atom directly from propane, involving 2e in these processes. Subse- quently, the propyl radical either physically adsorbs on the surface, or rebinds to an adjacent surface atom, or desorbs into gas phase. To further simplify the discussion, the pathways leading to the nine product combinations could be classified into three groups according to the active site bonded to hydrogen in the products: (i) O(2) site pathways O(2)-X-C and O(2)-X-R; (ii) O(3) site pathways O(3)-X-C and O(3)-X-R;(iii) Ga site pathways Ga-X-C and Ga-X-R, where X ) O(2), O(3), and Ga.
3.2.1. O(2) Site Pathways. (a) O(2)-X-C. The energy
profiles of these pathways and the structures of the cyclic TSs are depicted in Figure 2. The O(2)-Ga site pair can be regarded as a Lewis acid-base pair since the active site pair is formed by a positively charged gallium atom and a negatively charged oxygen atom. This step is 9.9 kcal/mol endothermic with an energy barrier of 25.3 kcal/mol (TS1, Figure 2), which is lower than the barrier for the initial methane activation (28.7 kcal/ mol)46 but is higher than the barrier for the initial ethane activation (16.8 kcal/mol)47 on the zeolite-supported gallium atom. For the homolytic activation on the O(2)-O(2) site pair,the process is -8.9 kcal/mol exothermic with an energy barrier 20384
J. Phys. Chem. C, Vol. 112, No. 51, 2008
Liu et al. of 38.8 kcal/mol (TS2). For the activation on the O(2)-O(3) site pair, a cyclic transition state could not be located by any means. In addition, forming the O(2)-O(3) product combina- tions is 20.1 kcal/mol endothermic. Therefore, compared to the O(2)-Ga and O(2)-O(2) site pairs the activation on the O(2)-O(3) site pairs is unfavorable. Overall, for the concerted mechanism the activation on the O(2)-Ga site pairs is more favorable than that on the O(2)-O(2) site pairs.
(b) O(2)-X-R. As for the radical mechanism (R), all pathways share the same initial step, i.e., H abstraction by the same O(2) site. As can be seen from Figure 2, the energy barrier for the first H abstraction from propane is 18.1 kcal/mol. A physically adsorbed propyl radical is formed and its adsorption energy is 4.5 kcal/mol. Then the physically adsorbed propyl radical may become chemically adsorbed by forming chemical bond with adjacent active sites, i.e., O(2), O(3), Ga, and the newly formed O(2)H group. The bonding with the newly formed O(2)H will be discussed later. Here we will focus on the other three sites. The energetics indicate that the propyl radical prefers to form bond with the nearest Ga and O(2) sites, since the energy barriers to form chemically adsorbed propyl on the two sites are just 4.4 and 5.5 kcal/mol, respectively, whereas on the O(3) site the barrier is 12.0 kcal/mol. Another possibility is the desorption of the physically adsorbed propyl radical into the gas phase with a desorption energy of 4.5 kcal/mol. Since forming the O(2)-O(3) product combination is most endother- mic and needs to overcome very high energy barrier, propyl is unlikely to form a bond with the O(3) site. On the other hand,the adsorption of propyl on the O(2) site is strongly exothermic and thus O(2) is a stable adsorption site for propyl.
3.2.2. O(3) Site Pathways. The O(3) site pathways are similar
to the O(2) site pathways except that some TSs could not be located and the energy profiles for pathways with TS located are shifted to higher energies since O(3)H group is less stable than O(2)H group. The energy barrier of the O(3)-Ga-C pathway is 16.4 kcal/mol (Figure 3) higher than that of the O(2)-Ga-C pathway. In addition, this reaction is highly endothermic with a reaction energy of 31.1 kcal/mol, and the resulting product is much less stable than that formed through theO(2)-Gapathways.FortheO(3)-O(2)-CandO(3)-O(3)-C pathways, the cyclic TS structures could not be located. This may be due to the lower ability of the O(3) site to abstract hydrogen and the lower stability of the O(3)H group or C3H7O(3) intermediate. Our previous study on V2O5-catalyzed propane dehydrogenation also showed that the 3-fold coordi- nated O(3) sites are the most inert sites.72 For the O(3)-X-R pathways, the energy barrier of the H-abstraction step is 39.4 kcal/mol, which is also much higher than that of the corresponding O(2) pathways. To form C3H7Ga intermediate, an additional energy barrier of 20.6 kcal/mol has to be overcome. The TS structure for forming C3H7O(2) intermediate could not be located. Although the energy barrier for forming C3H7O(3) is just 6.5 kcal/mol, the formed C3H7O(3) intermediate is very unstable with a reverse energy barrier of just 0.9 kcal/mol. This is similar to the formation of C3H7O(3) intermediate from O(2)H + C3H7(ad) pair (Figure 2) where the reverse energy barrier from O(2)H + C3H7O(3) to O(2)H + C3H7(ad) is also very low. Therefore, we are unlikely to observe C3H7O(3) intermediate in the experiment. On the other hand, C3H7O(2) and C3H7Ga intermediates are more likely to be captured by experimental techniques since they fall into deeper potential energy wells.
3.2.3. Ga Site Pathways. All the TSs for the activation of
the initial C-H bond by the Ga site to form gallium hydride,either via concerted or radical mechanism, could not be located.
However, experiments have observed the existence of the Ga-H bond.42 van Santen and co-workers have also failed to locate the TS to form gallium hydride on the GaO+ species stabilized on zeolite,31,47 and they proposed indirect pathways to form gallium hydride.35 Here, we have also studied a similar pathway to form gallium hydride via a radical mechanism. As mentioned above when discussing the O(2) site pathways, the physically Figure 2. Potential energy profiles and TS structures for C-H bond activation on O(2) sites.
Figure 3. Potential energy profiles and TS structures for C-H bond activation on O(3) sites.
Propane Dehydrogenation over Perfect Ga2O3(100) Surface
J. Phys. Chem. C, Vol. 112, No. 51, 2008
20385 adsorbed propyl radical can become chemically adsorbed by forming bond with the newly formed O(2)H group, leading to an alcohol-like intermediate. The energy barrier for this process is 11.2 kcal/mol (in Figure 4). Then the adjacent Ga site abstracts the hydrogen from the hydroxyl group of the alcohol-like intermediate. The energy barrier of this hydrogen migration step is 40.5 kcal/mol. Since this hydrogen migration step is the rate- determining step to form gallium hydride, the overall energy barrier to form gallium hydride from the gas phase propane is the relative energy between the H-migration transition state (TS12) to the initial reactants, and it is 58.9 kcal/mol, a little too high. Therefore, gallium hydride may not be formed by this mechanism due to the high hydrogen-migration barrier.
The above results indicate that the first C-H bond of propane is mainly activated by the O(2) site through a stepwise radical mechanism. Recent DFT study on MoO3-catalyzed light alkane dehydrogenation using cluster models also found that the radical mechanism is energetically preferred for both methane50 and propane49 dehydrogenations. However, our previous study of propane activation on V2O5(001) surface indicates that an oxo- insertion mechanism, i.e., the oxygen atom inserts into the C-H bond forming an alcoholic intermediate and then the H atom of the hydroxyl group migrates to adjacent sites, is energetically preferred. We have also considered this mechanism and have optimized a transition state structurally very similar to the one optimized on the V2O5(001) surface. However, careful analysis indicates that this transition state is not really the transition state connecting the physically adsorbed propane reactant and the alcoholic intermediate, but the transition state of the second step of the radical mechanism (TS11 in Figure 4) to form the alcoholic intermediate as mentioned above when discussing the Ga site pathways. We further confirmed this by changing the geometry of this transition state slightly toward the reactants and then doing a full geometry optimization. (It is worth mentioning here that IRC analysis has not been implemented in most periodic software codes yet.) The optimization results in a propyl radical physically adsorbed on the O(2)H group,i.e., the intermediate of the H abstraction by the O(2) site through a radical mechanism (IM1), not the physically adsorbed propane. It seems that the oxygen sites on the Ga2O3(100) surface and the V2O5(001) surface behave differently in the initial C-H activation of propane. In addition, the initial C-H bond cleavage of propane on the O(3) sites is less feasible compared to the O(2) sites both thermodynamically and kinetically. However, since the first step is not the rate- determining step in the reaction (see the discussions below),the possibility of the O(3) sites as the reaction center of propane activation cannot be ruled out.
It is very interesting to see that both the concerted and the stepwise radical mechanisms predict an easy formation of alkyl-gallium species and hydroxyl groups. This is in good agreement with recent experimental results that strong DRIFTS (diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectrum) bands of ethyl-gallium and hydroxyl groups have been observed after heating Ga2O3 in ethane atmosphere at 423 K.42 The same experiment also indicates that dissociative adsorption of ethane starts already at room temperature. Previous theoretical study51 have shown that the initial activation of the C-H bond by the MdO acid-base pair via a concerted mechanism is governed by the polarity of the MdO bond. Our results show that C-H bond activation via the concerted mechanism is energetically more feasible on the gallium oxides than on other metal oxides due to the high polarity of the GaO bond, although it is energetically less favorable than the activation via the radical mechanism.42
3.3. Second StepsPropene Formation. There are two
distinct pathways to form propene after the breaking of the first C-H bond: the losing of a hydrogen atom from either the physically adsorbed propyl radical or the chemically adsorbed propyl species, i.e., propoxide or propylgallium species. The formed propene then desorbs from the surface. Different from the initial C-H bond activation, the second hydrogen atom can be abstracted not only by nearby oxygen active sites, i.e., O(2), O(3), and the newly formed O(2)H groups, but also by the unsaturated Ga sites.
3.3.1. From Physically Adsorbed Propyl Radical. The energy
profiles and all TSs for the second H abtraction from propyl radical with the first hydrogen atom abstracted from propane bonded to O(2) are shown in Figure 5. Those for the H abtraction from propyl radical with the first hydrogen atom bonded to O(3) site show similar trend except that the energy profiles are significantly lifted to higher energies (by more than 20 kal/mol) due to the fact that O(3)H groups are much less stable than O(2)H groups. These energy profiles and TS structures are available in the Supporting Information.
The results show that the abilities of different sites to abstract H atom from propyl are in the order of O(2) > O(3) > O(2)H > Ga. For the V2O5 surface, Fu et al.72 found that the H-abstraction abilities of the lattice O sites and surface OH groups are similar. However, on the Ga2O3(100) surface the activity of the O sites decreases a lot once they have become hydroxyl groups. We have also tried to search the TSs for the initial C-H bond activation of propane by hydroxyl groups.
However, all our efforts have failed. Therefore, the partially reduced Ga2O3(100) surface has lower activity than the un- reduced surface. It can be seen from Figure 5 that propene formation through H abstraction by O(2) has the lowest energy barrier (4.5 kcal/mol), and the highest one is through H abstraction by Ga (29.6 kcal/mol). Taking all the three steps to form the gaseous propene product into consideration, i.e., the formation of propyl radical, the formation of physically adsorbed propene, and the desorption of propene from the surface, it can Figure 4. Potential energy profiles and TS structures for the formation of gallium hydride via an indirect pathway. 20386
J. Phys. Chem. C, Vol. 112, No. 51, 2008
Liu et al. be seen that the most energetically preferred pathway is H abstraction by the O(2) sites at both the first and second steps of the C-H bond activation. The second energetically preferred pathway is first H abstraction by O(2) sites and then second H abstraction by O(3) sites. The least feasible pathway is first H abstraction by the O(2) sites and then second H abstraction by Ga sites. Therefore, it can be concluded that the lowest-energy pathway to form propene is on O(2) sites, but it can also occur on Ga sites at high temperatures leading to the formation of gallium hydrides. The formation of gallium hydrides via this mechanism is energetically much more feasible than the indirect mechanism discussed above. This conclusion is in agreement with the recent experimental results for ethane adsorption on Ga2O3 that gallium hydrides are detected by IR spectrum at high temperatures.42 Electron-affluent molecules donate electrons easily to surface active sites and are thus strongly adsorbed on the surface.75 It can be seen that propene formed by O(3) abstraction or O(2)H group has high desorption energy (more than 9 kcal/mol).
Charge analysis indicates that there is significant electron transfer from propene to surface hydroxyl groups. Hence the obtained propene on the O(3) sites and OH group may lead to deep dehydrogenation products such as carbon deposition and results in fast deactivation of the Ga2O3 catalyst17 or the formation of aromatic byproducts.23 This is not surprising because it has been found that the acid sites of the catalyst is favorable for coke formation76 and further oligomerization of the adsorbed propene.77
3.3.2. From i-Propoxide Intermediates. C3H7O(2) is the most
stable form of the chemically adsorbed propyl on the surface.
C3H7O(3) is less stable. To form propene, the adjacent active sites, for example O(2), O(3), Ga, and surface O(2)H group must abstract one methyl hydrogen from either C3H7O(2) or C3H7O(3). However, our searches for TSs starting from C3H7O(3) either failed or all the optimized TSs have exactly the same geometries as those optimized starting from the physically adsorbed propyl radical. It seems that the C-O bond of the C3H7O(3) intermediate has to be completely broken before C3H7O(3) further reacts with surface active sites to produce propene since the energy barrier for breaking C-O(3) bond is low (see Figures 2 and 3). For those starting from C3H7O(2),the located TS structures for H abstraction by O(3) and O(2)H group are also exactly the same as those from physically adsorbed propyl radical as discussed above. Thus, in Figure 6a only two pathways, H abstraction by O(2) and Ga, are presented.
Both pathways start from the O(2)H and C3H7O(2) product pair resulting from the initial C-H bond activation of propane on O(2) site. Those pathways starting from the O(3)H + C3H7O(2) product pair show similar trend and are available in the


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do FexNiy/CeO2 catalysts, particularly Fe3Ni1/CeO2, compare with vanadium oxide catalysts in CO2-ODH reactions in terms of activity, selectivity, and reaction mechanisms, and what roles do support materials, composition, and structural factors play in determining their performance, challenges, and potential for improvement?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 