<quotes>

[1] "The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity (60-7OC%)."
[2] "The main features of the conversion mechanism are proposed involving propane dehydrogenation,followed by oligomerization and aromatization."
[3] "Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenat- ion is rate controlled,while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium."
[4] "The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture."
[5] "ZSM-5-H and ZSM-5-Zn show quite different dependences of selectivity upon space velocity (c.f. Figures 1 and 2). Over ZSM-5-H, the selectivity for total aromatic products and for BTX decreases with increase in space velocity, consistent with aromatization being a late step in the overall reaction sequence, having been preceded by oligomerization/cracking reactions which generate the required precurs- ors of carbon number >6."
[6] "On the other hand, in the conversion of propane over ZSM-5-Zn, a different behaviour was observed. With increasing space velocity the total aromatic content of the reaction products remained constant, and the BTX content increased to a modest extent."
[7] "We suggest that this different behaviour compared with the protonic form of the catalyst has its origin in the basically different aromatization mechanisms."
[8] "As pointed out in the previous discussion,aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, as opposed to the hydride transfer mechanism which operates over ZSM-5-H (and which generates paraffins)."
[9] "We suggest that over ZSM-5-Zn the relatively high rate of hydrogen diffusion in the zeolite channels results in in- creasing depletion of the local hydrogen concentration with increasing space velocity, thus moving the equilibrium in the direction of BTX formation."
[10] "Over ZSM-5-H on the other hand, this equilibrium does not exist and the BTX selectivity falls with increasing space velocity in the manner outlined in an earlier part of the discussion in relation to the conversion of propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity. The main features of the conversion mechanism involve propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization. Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenation is rate controlled, while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium. The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture. ZSM-5-H and ZSM-5-Zn show quite different dependences of selectivity upon space velocity. Over ZSM-5-H, the selectivity for total aromatic products and for BTX decreases with increase in space velocity, consistent with aromatization being a late step in the overall reaction sequence, having been preceded by oligomerization/cracking reactions which generate the required precursors of carbon number >6. In the conversion of propane over ZSM-5-Zn, a different behaviour was observed. With increasing space velocity the total aromatic content of the reaction products remained constant, and the BTX content increased to a modest extent. This different behaviour compared with the protonic form of the catalyst has its origin in the basically different aromatization mechanisms. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, as opposed to the hydride transfer mechanism which operates over ZSM-5-H (and which generates paraffins). Over ZSM-5-Zn the relatively high rate of hydrogen diffusion in the zeolite channels results in increasing depletion of the local hydrogen concentration with increasing space velocity, thus moving the equilibrium in the direction of BTX formation. Over ZSM-5-H on the other hand, this equilibrium does not exist and the BTX selectivity falls with increasing space velocity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了锌交换（ZSM-5-Zn）和质子交换（ZSM-5-H）形式的ZSM-5沸石催化剂在730-820 K温度范围内将丙烷转化为芳烃。ZSM-5-Zn的活性更高，BTX选择性更好。转化机制的主要特征涉及丙烷脱氢，随后是寡聚化和芳构化。裂解至Cl-C2产物是并行反应。两种催化剂上的主要脱氢反应在机制上是不同的：在ZSM-5-H上，脱氢是速率控制的，而在ZSM-5-Zn上，这一步骤处于准平衡状态。ZSM-5-H可能引发自由基链反应的方式仍然是一个猜测。ZSM-5-H和ZSM-5-Zn在空间速度上对选择性的依赖性截然不同。在ZSM-5-H上，总芳烃产品和BTX的选择性随着空间速度的增加而降低，这与芳构化是整个反应序列的后期步骤一致，之前是生成所需碳数>6的前体的寡聚化/裂解反应。在ZSM-5-Zn上丙烷的转化中，观察到了不同的行为。随着空间速度的增加，反应产物的总芳烃含量保持不变，BTX含量适度增加。与质子形式的催化剂相比，这种不同的行为源于基本上不同的芳构化机制。ZSM-5-Zn上的芳构化产生氢气，与ZSM-5-H（产生石蜡）上的氢化物转移机制相反。在ZSM-5-Zn上，沸石通道中氢气的高扩散速率导致随着空间速度的增加，局部氢浓度的增加，从而将平衡推向BTX的形成。另一方面，在ZSM-5-H上，这种平衡不存在，BTX选择性随着空间速度的增加而降低。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
