<quotes>

[1] "The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity (60-7OC%)."
[2] "The main features of the conversion mechanism are proposed involving propane dehydrogenation,followed by oligomerization and aromatization."
[3] "Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenat- ion is rate controlled,while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium."
[4] "The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture."
[5] "However, it is known [lZ] that adsorption of aromatics or olefins on high silica zeolites can involve electron transfer pro- cesses and the generation of some radical species which can be detected by EPR."
[6] "By contrast, over ZSM-5-Zn only a small proportion of methane is formed dis- tinguishing it from the reaction over ZSM-5-H and silicalite.This leads to the conclusion that a radical-chain mechanism probably does not make a significant contribution to propane over ZSM-5-Zn."
[7] "We suggest that this different behaviour compared with the protonic form of the catalyst has its origin in the basically different aromatization mechanisms."
[8] "As pointed out in the previous discussion,aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, as opposed to the hydride transfer mechanism which operates over ZSM-5-H (and which generates paraffins)."
[9] "We suggest that these effects arise because the respective dehydrogenation steps are in quasi-equilibrium,with reaction 4 controlling the conversion and a dehydrogenation between aromatic and cyclic precursor controlling the BTX selectivity (both processes may well involve species of the type [Zn-HI+,c.f. reaction 4."
[10] "On the other hand, it was found that over ZSM-5-H catalyst, hydro- gen had no specific effect on the conversion of propane or on the product distribut- ion (except for a dilution effect which was the same as given by nitrogen):in this case analogous quasi-equilibria cannot be presumed, in agreement with the nature of the processes summarized in reactions 5 and 2."
[11] "The present results suggest that part of the C,-C3 hydrocarbon product formed in propane conversion over the present ZSM-5 catalysts,particularly ZSM-5-Zn,may have arisen from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity. The main features of the conversion mechanism are proposed involving propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization. Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenation is rate controlled, while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium. The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture. However, it is known that adsorption of aromatics or olefins on high silica zeolites can involve electron transfer processes and the generation of some radical species which can be detected by EPR. By contrast, over ZSM-5-Zn only a small proportion of methane is formed distinguishing it from the reaction over ZSM-5-H and silicalite. This leads to the conclusion that a radical-chain mechanism probably does not make a significant contribution to propane over ZSM-5-Zn. The different behavior compared with the protonic form of the catalyst has its origin in the basically different aromatization mechanisms. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, as opposed to the hydride transfer mechanism which operates over ZSM-5-H. We suggest that these effects arise because the respective dehydrogenation steps are in quasi-equilibrium. On the other hand, it was found that over ZSM-5-H catalyst, hydrogen had no specific effect on the conversion of propane or on the product distribution. The present results suggest that part of the C,-C3 hydrocarbon product formed in propane conversion over the present ZSM-5 catalysts, particularly ZSM-5-Zn, may have arisen from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products. The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Factors contributing to their industrial significance include the selectivity and activity of the catalysts, the stability and durability under reaction conditions, and the economic and environmental impact of the catalytic process.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了锌交换（ZSM-5-Zn）和质子交换（ZSM-5-H）形式的ZSM-5沸石催化剂在730-820 K温度范围内将丙烷转化为芳烃。ZSM-5-Zn活性更高，BTX选择性更好。转化机制的主要特征被提出，涉及丙烷脱氢，随后是寡聚化和芳构化。裂解至Cl-C2产物是并行反应。两种催化剂上的初级脱氢反应在机制上是不同的：在ZSM-5-H上，脱氢是速率控制的，而在ZSM-5-Zn上，这一步骤处于准平衡状态。ZSM-5-H可能引发自由基链反应的方式仍然是一个猜想。然而，众所周知，高硅沸石上芳烃或烯烃的吸附可能涉及电子转移过程和一些可以通过EPR检测的自由基物种的生成。相比之下，在ZSM-5-Zn上，只有少量的甲烷形成，这与ZSM-5-H和硅沸石上的反应区分开来。这导致结论，自由基链机制可能对ZSM-5-Zn上的丙烷转化没有显著贡献。与质子形式的催化剂相比，不同的行为起源于基本上不同的芳构化机制。ZSM-5-Zn上的芳构化产生氢气，与在ZSM-5-H上运行的氢化物转移机制相反。我们建议这些效应是因为各自的脱氢步骤处于准平衡状态。另一方面，发现ZSM-5-H催化剂上的氢对丙烷的转化或产品分布没有特定影响。目前的结果表明，在目前的ZSM-5催化剂，特别是ZSM-5-Zn上形成的C,-C3烃产物的一部分可能源于芳烃产物的二次脱甲基反应。金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机制和效率，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中。对它们工业重要性有贡献的因素包括催化剂的选择性和活性，反应条件下的稳定性和耐久性，以及催化过程的经济和环境影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
