<quotes>

[1] "The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity (60-7OC%)."
[2] "The main features of the conversion mechanism are proposed involving propane dehydrogenation,followed by oligomerization and aromatization."
[3] "Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenat- ion is rate controlled,while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium."
[4] "The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture."
[5] "ZSM-5-H and ZSM-5-Zn show quite different dependences of selectivity upon space velocity (c.f. Figures 1 and 2)."
[6] "We suggest that over ZSM-5-Zn the relatively high rate of hydrogen diffusion in the zeolite channels results in in- creasing depletion of the local hydrogen concentration with increasing space velocity, thus moving the equilibrium in the direction of BTX formation."
[7] "The present results suggest that part of the C,-C3 hydrocarbon product formed in propane conversion over the present ZSM-5 catalysts,particularly ZSM-5-Zn,may have arisen from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The zinc-exchanged (ZSM-5-Zn) and proton-exchanged (ZSM-5-H) forms of ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied for the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons at temperatures in the range 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn was the more active and gave the better BTX selectivity. The main features of the conversion mechanism are proposed involving propane dehydrogenation, followed by oligomerization and aromatization. Cracking to Cl-C2 products is a concurrent reaction. The primary dehydrogenation reaction is mechanistically different on the two types of catalyst: over ZSM-5-H dehydrogenation is rate controlled, while over ZSM-5-Zn this step is in quasi-equilibrium. The way in which ZSM-5-H might be able to initiate a radical-chain reaction remains a matter for conjecture. ZSM-5-H and ZSM-5-Zn show quite different dependences of selectivity upon space velocity. We suggest that over ZSM-5-Zn the relatively high rate of hydrogen diffusion in the zeolite channels results in increasing depletion of the local hydrogen concentration with increasing space velocity, thus moving the equilibrium in the direction of BTX formation. The present results suggest that part of the C,-C3 hydrocarbon product formed in propane conversion over the present ZSM-5 catalysts, particularly ZSM-5-Zn, may have arisen from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products. These factors contribute to their industrial significance in the conversion of propane to aromatic hydrocarbons.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了锌交换（ZSM-5-Zn）和质子交换（ZSM-5-H）形式的ZSM-5沸石催化剂在730-820 K温度范围内将丙烷转化为芳烃。ZSM-5-Zn更活跃，给出了更好的BTX选择性。转化机制的主要特征被提出，涉及丙烷脱氢，随后是寡聚化和芳构化。裂解到Cl-C2产物是同时发生的反应。两种催化剂上的初级脱氢反应在机制上是不同的：在ZSM-5-H上，脱氢是受速率控制的，而在ZSM-5-Zn上，这一步骤处于准平衡状态。ZSM-5-H如何能够引发自由基链反应的方式仍然是一个猜想。ZSM-5-H和ZSM-5-Zn在空间速度上的选择性依赖性有很大的不同。我们建议，在ZSM-5-Zn上，沸石通道中氢的相对高扩散速率导致空间速度增加时局部氢浓度的增加，从而将平衡推向BTX的形成。目前的结果表明，在目前的ZSM-5催化剂，特别是ZSM-5-Zn上形成的C,-C3烃类产物的一部分可能来自芳烃产物的二次脱甲基反应。这些因素对它们在将丙烷转化为芳烃的工业重要性方面做出了贡献。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
