<quotes>

[1] "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers an energetically attractive route to the production of alkenes (i.e., RCH2CH3 + O2  RCHCH2 + H2O). Since ethane is the second most major component of natural gas and is also a main product in many methane-coupling reactions, its transformation to ethene at low temperature is of considerable interest. The metal oxide catalyst containing Mo, V, and Nb (Mo16V4Nb2) is more active (10% of conversion at 559 K) and selective (100%) than other mixed-metal oxides (MoV, MoMn, MoTi, etc.)."
[2] "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane may provide an attractive route to the production of propylene and could be a good alternative to conventional dehydrogenation and cracking processes. Various Nb-containing catalysts were studied for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Smits et al. 143 found that niobium oxide shows a very high selectivity in this reaction although the conversion was very low (Figure 9). The activity of the niobia was improved without diminishing its selectivity by adding other suitable elements (V, Cr, Mo)."
[3] "The influence of various preparation methods on the performance of the VNbO catalysts also was investigated by Smits et al. 144,145 They found that the activity and selectivity of a given vanadium site depends on the nature of its neighboring atoms. Vanadium neighbors promote the activity, while niobium neighbors promote the selectivity. Niobium is much more difficult to reduce than vanadium and this feature improves the selectivity, since facile reduction often causes low selectivity in these reactions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is an attractive process for producing alkenes, particularly ethene from ethane, which is a major component of natural gas. A metal oxide catalyst containing Mo, V, and Nb (Mo16V4Nb2) is more active and selective for this reaction than other mixed-metal oxides. The ODH of propane to propylene is also of interest, and niobium oxide shows high selectivity, although conversion is low. Adding elements like V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide can improve its activity without affecting selectivity. The selectivity of vanadium sites in VNbO catalysts is enhanced by niobium neighbors, as niobium is harder to reduce than vanadium, which improves selectivity by preventing facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化脱氢（ODH）烷烃是一种有吸引力的过程，用于生产烯烃，特别是从乙烷生产乙烯，乙烷是天然气的主要成分。含有Mo，V和Nb（Mo16V4Nb2）的金属氧化物催化剂比其他混合金属氧化物对这种反应更活跃和选择性。丙烷到丙烯的ODH也引起了人们的兴趣，铌氧化物显示出高选择性，尽管转化率很低。向铌氧化物添加像V，Cr和Mo这样的元素可以提高其活性，而不会影响选择性。在VNbO催化剂中，铌邻近可以增强钒位点的选择性，因为铌比钒更难还原，这通过防止容易还原来提高选择性，这可能导致低选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
