<quotes>

[1] "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers an energetically attractive route to the production of alkenes (i.e., RCH2CH3 + O2  RCHCH2 + H2O). Since ethane is the second most major component of natural gas and is also a main product in many methane-coupling reactions, its transformation to ethene at low temperature is of considerable interest. The metal oxide catalyst containing Mo, V, and Nb (Mo16V4Nb2) is more active (10% of conversion at 559 K) and selective (100%) than other mixed-metal oxides (MoV, MoMn, MoTi, etc.)."
[2] "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane may provide an attractive route to the production of propylene and could be a good alternative to conventional dehydrogenation and cracking processes. Various Nb-containing catalysts were studied for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Smits et al. 143 found that niobium oxide shows a very high selectivity in this reaction although the conversion was very low (Figure 9). The activity of the niobia was improved without diminishing its selectivity by adding other suitable elements (V, Cr, Mo)."
[3] "The influence of various preparation methods on the performance of the VNbO catalysts also was investigated by Smits et al. 144,145 They found that the activity and selectivity of a given vanadium site depends on the nature of its neighboring atoms. Vanadium neighbors promote the activity, while niobium neighbors promote the selectivity. Niobium is much more difficult to reduce than vanadium and this feature improves the selectivity, since facile reduction often causes low selectivity in these reactions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is an attractive process for the production of alkenes, particularly ethene from ethane. A metal oxide catalyst containing Mo, V, and Nb (Mo16V4Nb2) is more active and selective for this reaction than other mixed-metal oxides. The ODH of propane, catalyzed by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, which can be improved by adding elements like V, Cr, and Mo without losing selectivity. The selectivity is promoted by niobium neighbors due to its difficulty in reduction, which prevents facile reduction that often leads to low selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化脱氢（ODH）是烷烃生产烯烃（特别是从乙烷生产乙烯）的一种有吸引力的过程。含有Mo，V和Nb（Mo16V4Nb2）的金属氧化物催化剂比其他混合金属氧化物更活跃和选择性。丙烷的ODH，由铌氧化物催化，显示出高选择性但转化率低，可以通过添加V，Cr和Mo等元素来改善，而不会失去选择性。由于铌的还原困难，选择性由铌邻近促进，这防止了容易还原，这通常导致低选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
