element not found

Chemical ReviewsVol 97/Issue 6Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
ARTICLEOctober 1, 1997
From Microporous to Mesoporous Molecular Sieve Materials and Their Use in Catalysis
Avelino Corma
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 1997 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Catalysts
Materials
Porous Materials
Surfactants
Zeolites
I. Introduction
It is possible to say that zeolites are the most widely used catalysts in industry. They are crystalline microporous materials which have become extremely successful as catalysts for oil refining, petrochemistry, and organic synthesis in the production of fine and speciality chemicals, particularly when dealing with molecules having kinetic diameters below 10 Å. The reason for their success in catalysis is related to the following specific features of these materials: 1  (1) They have very high surface area and adsorption capacity. (2) The adsorption properties of the zeolites can be controlled, and they can be varied from hydrophobic to hydrophilic type materials. (3) Active sites, such as acid sites for instance, can be generated in the framework and their strength and concentration can be tailored for a particular application. (4) The sizes of their channels and cavities are in the range typical for many molecules of interest (5−12 Å), and the strong electric fields 2 existing in those micropores together with an electronic confinement of the guest molecules 3 are responsible for a preactivation of the reactants. (5) Their intricate channel structure allows the zeolites to present different types of shape selectivity, i.e., product, reactant, and transition state, which can be used to direct a given catalytic reaction toward the desired product avoiding undesired side reactions. (6) All of these properties of zeolites, which are of paramount importance in catalysis and make them attractive choices for the types of processes listed above, are ultimately dependent on the thermal and hydrothermal stability of these materials. In the case of zeolites, they can be activated to produce very stable materials not just resistant to heat and steam but also to chemical attacks.
Despite these catalytically desirable properties of zeolites they become inadequate when reactants with sizes above the dimensions of the pores have to be processed. In this case the rational approach to overcome such a limitation would be to maintain the porous structure, which is responsible for the benefits described above, but to increase their diameter to bring them into the mesoporous region. The strategy used by the scientist to do this was based on the fact that most of the organic templates used to synthesize zeolites affect the gel chemistry and act as void fillers in the growing porous solids. Consequently, attempts were made that employed larger organic templates which would not, as was hoped, hence result in larger voids in the synthesized material. This approach did not give positive results in the case of zeolites, but in contrast was quite successful when using Al and P or Ga and P as framework elements. 4-14 Only very recently a 14-member ring (MR) unidirectional zeolite (UTD-1) could be synthesized using a Co organometallic complex as the template 15,16 (Table 1). The template can be removed, and the thermal stability of the framework of the organometallic-free material is high, resisting calcination temperatures up to 1000 °C. The presence of framework tetrahedral Al generates Brønsted acidity which is strong enough to carry out the cracking of paraffins.
Table 1. The Typical Larger Pore Zeolites/Zeotypes
material ring size year discovered synthesis media inorganic framework composition channels/pores
cacoxenite 20-TO4 ring   naturally occurring Al, Fe, P 14.2 Å pore diameter
zeolites X/Y (FAU) 12-TO4 ring 1950s   Al; Si 7 Å diameter pore
          12 Å diameter cavity
          3D channel system
AlPO4-8 (AET)* 14-TO4 ring 1982 n-dipropylamine template Al, P 1D channel system
VPI-5 (VFI)* 18-TO4 ring 1988 tetrabutylammonium/ n-dipropylamine templates Al, P 13 Å channel diameter
          hexagonal arrangement of 1D channel system
cloverite (CLO)* 20-TO4 ring 1991 (a) quiniclidinium template   largest aperture of window is 13 Å
      (b) F- rather than OH as mineralizer Ga, P 30 Å cavities
          3-D channel system
JDF-20 20-TO4 ring 1992 (a) triethylamine template Al, P hydroxyl groups protruding into channel system
      (b) glycol solvent    
UTD-1 14-TO4 ring 1996 [(Cp*)2Co]OH Si, Al 1-D channel system
          7.5 × 10 Å
In a general way, we have summarized in Table 2 the different strategies directed toward the synthesize of ultralarge pore zeolites.
Table 2. The Major Routes Employed by Zeolite Synthetic Chemists To Increase the Pore Size of Microporous Zeolites and Zeotypes
method employed to increase pore size examples structures
use specific spacing units to build the inorganic framework addition of further four ring building units to six ring units in porous aluminophosphates AlPO4-5 framework further extended to VPI-5 (refs 182, 183, and 188)
use different oxide systems use two sorts of tetrahedral atoms to yield diffrent T−O bond lengths VPI-5 (aluminum and phosphorous) cloverite (gallium and phosphorous)
use specially designed templates exploit the specific structure directing effect of an organic template use of quinuclidine to form cloverite
However, when the zeolite and zeotypes with the largest known diameters are considered in the context of their possible uses as catalysts the following can be said:  cacoxenite, 17 which is a naturally occurring mineral with a 15 Å pore system, is thermally unstable and thus cannot be used as a catalyst. Cloverite, although this structure has potentially large pores, the diffusion of large molecules is restricted, owing to the unusual shape of the pore openings which are altered due to protruding hydroxyl groups. Likewise in VPI-5, stacking disorder or deformation of some of the 18-member rings during dehydration results in a decrease in the pore size from 12 to about 8 Å. In the case of the new zeolite UTD-1, the fact that it has to be synthesized with an organometallic Co complex, which has then to be destroyed, and the Co left has to be acid leached raises strong questions concerning its practical application, which remains in doubt unless a more suitable template and activation procedure can be found.
In conclusion, it can be said that despite the outstanding progress made in producing large pore molecular sieves, the materials so far synthesized are still not suitable to be used in the context of current catalytic processes. Largely for this reason alone another approach has been undertaken in order to increase the activity of the existing microporous materials for processing large molecules such as those existing, for instance, in vacuum gas oil and which need to be cracked and hydrocracked. This approach involves the generation of mesopores in the crystallites of the microporous zeolites.
II. Zeolites Containing Mesopores
Following the definition accepted by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, porous materials can be grouped into three classes based on their pore diameter (d):  microporous, d < 2.0 nm; mesoporous, 2.0 ≤ d ≤ 50 nm; macroporous, d > 50 nm. In the case of zeolites, for example zeolite Y and CSZ-1, it was shown 18,19 that during the dealumination of the zeolite by steam mesopores of mixed sizes in the range 10−20 nm were formed which could be characterized by different techniques including gas adsorption, high-resolution electron microscopy, and analytical electron microscopy.19 When a large number of defects occur in a small area it can lead to coalescence of mesopores, with the formation of channels and cracks in the crystallite of the zeolite (Figure 1).
Figure 1 Schematic representation of mesopores formed in steamed zeolites.
The presence of the mesopores in the crystallites of a given zeolite should basically increase the accessibility of large molecules to the external opening of the pores. In other words, and from the stand point of large reactant molecules, the presence of mesopores in the crystallites of the zeolite would be equivalent to increasing the external surface of the zeolite making a larger number of pore openings accessible to the reactant. The beneficial effect of the combination of micro and mesoporous region in the zeolite crystallites was shown by comparing the cracking activity of two series of Y zeolite dealuminated by SiCl4 and steam. 20 The dealumination by SiCl4 generated little mesoporosity and preserved most of the microporosity of the zeolite. On the other hand, the dealumination by steam produced many more mesoporous areas within the material while some of the microporosity was destroyed (Figure 2). When the catalytic activity of the two series of samples was compared for cracking a small reactant molecule (n-heptane) which can easily penetrate through the pores of the zeolite Y, it was found that the samples dealuminated by SiCl4 treatment, and these, which have a greater microporosity, were more active than those dealuminated by steam. However, when the two series of dealuminated Y zeolites were used to crack a vacuum gas oil, containing molecules too large to penetrate deep into the microporous system, the steam-dealuminated samples, which contain a greater proportion of mesoporosity, gave a higher conversion (Figure 3a,b).
Figure 2 Pore volume in the mesoporous region for pores between 40 and 120 Å, of zeolites USY dealuminated by steam (□) and by SiCl4 (▪).
Figure 3 (a) Cracking of n-heptane on USY dealuminated by SiCl4 (·), and by steam (○) and (b) cracking of gas oil on USY dealuminated by steam (○), and by SiCl4 (·).
Increasing accessibility by producing mesopores during the activation of zeolites can have quite a profound impact in the case of fine and speciality chemical production, in which the performed catalyst will be working at low reaction temperatures and only moderate regeneration temperatures will be necessary. This is for instance the case for the esterification of fatty acids with alcohols. 21 Thus, because of the formation of mesopores by steam treating zeolite Y during the activation process, the modified catalyst gives good activity and selectivity, with a definitive optimum existing between the total number of acid sites and those accessible to the large molecules through the generated mesopores.
Unfortunately, in processes where the catalyst regeneration occurs at high temperatures the mesoporosity of the catalyst changes during the regeneration and in cases such as the FCC, this occurs in an uncontrollable way. It appears then that a procedure involving the formation of a secondary mesoporous system by steaming the microporous solid can only be adequate for some special cases and therefore, other more general solutions should be explored.
III. Pillared Layered Solids
Owing to the difficulties to synthesize zeolites having the required extra large channel and cavity sizes, a group of ultralarge pore materials consisting of layered structures with pillars in the interlamellar region, the so-called pillared-layered structures (PLS), 22-28 have been synthesized. The layered compounds typically used involve smectites, metal (Zr, Ti, etc.) phosphates, double hydroxides, silicas, and metal oxides. If the PLS is to be used for molecular sieve applications, the pillared material must have the following characteristics:  uniform spacing between the pillars, suitable gallery heights, and layer rigidity. Among the different layered phases, smectites are probably the ones which best fulfill these requirements. The family of minerals known as smectites includes beidellite, hectorite, fluorhectorite, saponite, sauconite, montmorillonite, and nontronite. Smectites can be described simply on the basis of layers containing two sheets of silica sandwiching a layer of octahedral Al or Mg (2:1 layered clays). Substitution of some of the Al3+ for Mg2+ or Li+, or the isomorphous replacement of tetrahedral Si4+ for Al3+ results in an amount of total negative charge on the layer, compensated in turn by the presence of hydrated cations in the interlayer region.
It was Barrer and McCleod 29 who first prepared pillared materials by exchanging alkali and alkaline-earth cations in a montmorillonite clay for quaternary ammonium compounds. However, the resulting material was thermally unstable and therefore, of no practical use for catalysis. An important qualitative advance was provided by the use of oxyhydroxyaluminum cations as the pillaring agent. 30,31 The general procedure for preparing these clays consists 32 of exchanging the cations in the interlamellar position, i.e., Na+, K+, and Ca2+, with larger inorganic hydroxy cations. These hydroxy species are polymeric or oligomeric hydroxyl metal cations formed by the hydrolysis of metal salts of Al, Zr, Ga, Cr, Si, Ti, Fe, and mixtures of them. When the exchanged samples are subject to a careful thermal treatment, dehydration and dehydroxylation occur, forming stable metal oxide clusters which serve to separate the layers, creating a two dimensional gallery with an opening, which if properly prepared can be greater than 1.0 nm. The correct choice of the intercalated compound and the pillaring procedure and activation is essential not only for properly “cementing” the layers and therefore providing high mechanical and thermal stability, but also for generating active sites for their use in catalysis. Care should be taken to avoid overfilling the interlayer or in turn introducing too few pillars since then a nonporous intercalate or unstable structure is generated. The ideal situation is for the pillar height to be of the same order as the lateral separation between pillars, resulting in a product with a near uniform pore size distribution.32 The resultant PLS materials have at least 50% of their surface in pores less than 3.0 nm (intralayer), and the rest is in pores larger than 3.0 nm, i.e., in mesopores (interlayer). 33 This situation arises from several different things:  the nonparallel stacking of layers, the layers not being of uniform length, and also the presence of stacking disorder. 34
Even though the most investigated substrates to be pillared include smectite clays, 35 phosphates and phosphonates of tetravalent metals, 36-40 and layered double hydroxides, 41-43 the ones showing most promising potential belong to the first group. In this case the main catalytic objective was directed to prepare cracking catalysts for FCC uses. Indeed, the openings of the interlayer spaces of PLS are of the molecular size of the feed stocks to FCC. By targeting this application, researchers have concentrated their attention on producing PLS with a high hydrothermal stability, while having adequate numbers of active sites able to convert the heavy molecules and able to produce liquid fuels with low selectivity to gases and coke.
To enhance stability, researchers have worked on both the nature of the pillars and the nature of the layered silicate. With regard to the pillars the first ones based on alumina were thermally stable, but their hydrothermal stability was limited. In these cases an aluminum tridecamer is thought to be the pillaring species in Al-pillared clays.33 However, it was also possible to prepare a GaAl12 structure in which the tetrahedral Al3+ of the Al13 cation is replaced with a Ga3+ ion, and the resulting structure can be described as the Baker−Figgs ε-isomer 44 of the Keggin structure. In this case the slightly larger ionic radius of the Ga3+ ion, makes the GaAl12 structure more symmetric than its corresponding Al13 oligomer, and consequently, the former should be thermodynamically favored over the Al13 and Ga13 and also more thermally stable. Thus, montmorillonite has been pillared with GaAl pillars which were synthesized with different Ga/Al ratios. 45-48 The layer spacing varied from 1.8 to 2.0 nm at room temperature and between 1.7 and 1.8 nm after calcination at 500 °C. As expected, the thermal and hydrothermal stability of the GaAl PLS was higher than that of the clay pillared with Al alone.
Increasing thermal and hydrothermal stability of the original aluminum pillared smectites has also been attempted by intercalating them with Al and Ce precursors. In this way it was found that montmorillonite could be intercalated with an oligomer (Al/Ce = 25) prepared by copolymerizing soluble rare earth salts with a cationic metal complex of aluminum. 49 When the samples were calcined at 800 °C for 16 h the pillared with AlCe maintained surface areas above 220 m2 g-1, while the areas of the corresponding pure Al counterpart were always smaller than 160 m2 g-1. However, what is more important in this new sample is the fact that some of the AlCe-pillared samples maintained a surface area of 279 m2 g-1 even after steaming at 760 °C for 5 h.
As alluded to above, it is possible to increase the stability of the resulting material not only by using different type of pillars (Al/Ga, Al/Ce), but also by changing the nature of the clay. For instance, Cuann et al. 50 indicated that when similar preparation techniques were used to pillar the clays, the final stability depended on the nature of the clay used. Among the different clays, rectorite was shown to be the most stable one. Rectorite is an interstratified layered silicate mineral formed by a regular stacking of mica and montmorillonite layers. Even though the nature of the layers and their stacking sequence vary between and within samples, the most probable stacking sequence is shown in Figure 4. The mixed-layered rectorite clay consists of low charge density, montmorillonite-like layers and high charge density nonexpandable mica-like layers. Rectorites pillared with [Al13O4(OH)24(H2O)12]7+ have thermal and hydrothermal stability much superior to montmorillonites and hectorite catalysts prepared by similar means, probably due to the robust mica-like layers located between the expanded montmorillonite-like layers (see Figure 4). 51
Figure 4 Schematic structures of montmorillonite (M) and rectorite (R). The T−O−T layer sequence (T = tetrahedral, O = octahedral) is represented by trapezoids and rectangles. Exchangeable and nonexchangeable charge compensating cations are represented by open and solid circles, respectively.
A natural evolution would then be to pillar rectorite with Al/Ce pillars, which were found to be highly stable. When this was done 52 it was found that highly stable materials retaining more than 75% of the surface area after a hydrothermal calcination at 760 °C for 4 h were produced. However, in addition and of more interest than just greater stability was the observation that different porosities were obtained with Al/Ce pillars in comparison to the pure Al pillars. Indeed, the Al/Ce rectorite has a d spacing of 3.49 nm corresponding to an interlayer distance of 1.57 nm which is larger than the interlayer distance (0.84 nm) of the Al rectorite.52 When the samples were calcined, the pore diameter of the Al/Ce ranges from 0.5 to 1.6 nm with a sharp peak at 0.68 nm, while the Al rectorite showed a unimodal pore distribution centered at 0.73 nm. These results indicate that bulkier less uniformly distributed pillars were formed in the case of Al/Ce rectorite, which is clearly of importance when large molecules are reacting.
Besides the clays considered here, pillaring has also been recently accomplished in other clays such as kandites and metakaolin which do not have exchange capacity. 53,54
In conclusion it can be said that pillared clays having the required stability have been developed into which acid and redox active sites can be introduced, generating potentially active catalysts whose main characteristics will be described below.
A. Pillar-Layered Silicates as Acid Catalysts
There are a large number of reactions which are catalyzed by acid sites, and their importance has surpassed the interest in the fundamental chemistry. It can be said that solid acids are the most important solid catalysts used today, when both the total amount used and the final economic impact are considered. The catalytic properties of a given acid catalyst will be determined by the number, type, and strength of the acid sites present. Then the questions one needs to answer are:  what type of acid sites are needed, either Brønsted or Lewis, and what is the acid strength required to activate the reactant molecule. When these questions have been answered, it is then the role of the chemist to find ways to maximize the number of acid sites in a given solid acid.
1. Nature of the Acid Sites
a.Al-Pillared Clays. It was soon recognized that different Al-pillared clays such as montmorillonites, saponites, beidellites, etc., have both Brønsted and Lewis acid sites in varying relative proportion. 55-58 This has been shown by adsorbing pyridine and identifiying by IR spectroscopy the characteristic bands of pyridinium ions (1545 cm-1) and pyridine coordinated to Lewis sites (1454 cm-1) (Figure 5). However, in the case of solid acids, as important as the number and type of acid sites is their acid strength since this will be responsible for the extent to which a given bond in the reactant molecule will be polarized and, consequently, will determine the type of reaction that the solid acid will be able to catalyze.
Figure 5 IR spectra of pyridine adsorbed on montmorillonite. The bands at 1545 and 1450 cm-1 correspond to pyridine adsorbed on Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, respectively.
Ming-Yuan et al. 59 have measured the total amount and strength of the acid sites present in montmorillonites pillared with Al polyhydroxy cations, using n-butylamine as a titrating base, and the results were compared with those obtained with amorphous silica-alumina and HY zeolite (Table 3). The results show that a strong increase in total acidity is observed when going from the starting Na montmorillonite to the Al-pillared material. Furthermore, the total acidity of the PLS is close to that of the amorphous silica-alumina and lower than in a HY zeolite; the acid strength of the former, measured using Hammett indicators, being weaker than that of the other two aluminosilicates.59 These results even if they appear reasonable should be considered with care, since the use of Hammett indicators is intrinsically inappropriate for measuring acid strength distribution in solid acids. Indeed, the use of the Hammett function (H0) is adequate for homogeneous aqueous solutions of acids, but in the case of solid heterogeneous catalysts the reported H0 values are meaningless. 60 On the other hand using a more reliable method for measuring acidity such as stepwise thermal desorption of ammonia, on a Wyoming montmorillonite pillared with hydroxy aluminium, resulted in a total number of acid sites equal to 0.35 mequiv g-1 with acid strengths comparable to that of HY zeolites. 61 Moreover this result has been confirmed from highly sensitive diffuse reflectance IR spectroscopy measurements, where Brønsted acid sites with an acid strength comparable to that of zeolites has been found.61
Table 3. Amount and Strength of Acid Sites of an Al-Pillared Material and Its Comparison with Amorphous Silica-Alumina and Zeolite Y
  acidity (mequiv g-1)
acid strength distribution (mequiv g-1) 0.2 (Na-Mont) 1.1 (Al-PLS) 1.3 (Si-Al) 1.65 (HY zeolite)
−3.0 < Ho < 3.3 0.2 1.1 0.9 0.3
−5.6 < Ho < −3.0 0 0 0.2 0
−8.2 < Ho < −5.6 0 0 0 0
Ho < 8.2 0 0 0.2 1.35
Since PLS are comprised of both the layers of the silicate and the pillars, it is of interest to determine which part of the composite material is responsible for the different types of acidity. This was elucidated from the correlation between the structural OH groups and the Brønsted acidity in PLS.58,59 Interpretation of IR data concluded particularly in the calcined samples that the Brønsted acidity is related with the clay structure, while on the other hand the Brønsted acidity of the OH groups in the Al pillars can be disregarded. Moreover, it is noted that the pillars will strongly contribute to the Lewis acidity observed.
Since most of the Brønsted acidity of the Al-PLS is due to the clay, there is no doubt that one should be able to change the final acidity of the material by working with different clays. Indeed, Poncelet and Schulz57 have considered this aspect by studying the acidity of montmorillonite and beidellite pillared with Al oligomers. In the case of the Al beidellite, and due to its larger proportion of AlIV in the tetrahedral layers, the final material presents a higher amount of Brønsted sites. 62 In the case of Al-pillared saponites, a new OH stretching vibration at 3595 cm-1 which is absent in pillared montmorillonites, has been observed, 63 and the acid character of these OH groups was elucidated by pyridine adsorption. The higher acidity of the saponite with respect to Al-pillared montmorillonites is attributed, as in the case of beidellite, to the higher content and strength of the acid sites associated with SiOH···Al groups produced upon proton attack of the tetrahedral Si−O−Al bonds.57,58 If this was true, one should be able to increase the Brønsted acidity by performing an acid treatment of the clay prior to the pillaring. When this was done, 64-66 it was found that the pillared acid activated clays (PAACs) incorporated less Al than did the conventional PLS, with the former being more mesoporous and less microporous. The total pore volumes of the PAACs were higher and the surface areas increased consistently with acid/clay ratio to a maximum before decreasing. Furthermore, the surface acidity was increased. An increase in the number of both Brønsted and Lewis acid sites also occurs when the pillared clays are treated with sulfate or phosphate ions.66
b.Clays Pillared with Cations Other Than Al. It is logical to suppose that if silica-alumina pillars were prepared instead of the classical Al, one may combine the porosity of the pillared materials with the acid and catalytic properties of the amorphous silica-alumina. 67,68 The preparation of silica-alumina-pillared clays was carried out67 by forming and aging hydroxy-alumina oligocations followed by reaction with Si(OEt)4. In order to change the potential acid characteristics of the final material, different Si/Al ratios (0−2) and Al/clay ratios (7−22 m molAl (g of clay)-1) were used, but unfortunately, the acidity of the hydroxy-silica-alumina-pillared clays is mainly of the Lewis type, a feature which appears to be independent of the Si/Al ratio.
The formation of pillars by using transition metals hydroxide oxides not only can introduce acidic properties to the material, but can also impart to the PLS other redox catalytic properties which are discussed later. Thus pillaring agents based on Zr, Cr, Fe, Ti, Sn, Tn, Ga, etc., have been prepared by forming polymeric cations of the corresponding ions, 69-91 and the acidity of the final material being observed to change significantly with the nature of the hydroxycation (Table 4).59 As noted previously with Al pillars, most of the acidity of the intercalate pillars, regardless of the cation, is of the Lewis type. Lower acidities were produced when Fe pillars were used and in mixed Al-Zr and Al-Fe cases. It was described above that GaAl pillars led to highly thermally and hydrothermally stable PLS materials.45-48 With regard to their acid properties, it has been found that the highest total acidity, measured by pyridine adsorption, occurs on PLS with large Al/Ga ratios. However, when the samples are heated at high temperatures only Lewis acid sites are present, indicating that the Brønsted sites of the solids have been dehydroxylated.
Table 4. Acidity of Montmorillonites Pillared with Different Cations
sample d001 (nm) surface area (m2 g-1) acidity (μv)
Al-PM 1.73−1.89 190 425−442
Zr-PM 1.82 191 570
Ti-PM 1.50 − 620
Fe-PM 1.55 109 340
Ni-PM 1.48 58 228
Al-Zr-PM 1.56 − 390
Al-Fe-PM 1.58 − 340
NaM 1.28 51 86
In conclusion, it appears that the introduction of transtion metal oxides as pillaring agents do not have any special advantage over the Al samples with respect to Brønsted acidity, confirming the observation that most of the Brønsted acidity comes from the clay, and very little, from the pillars. Then, the catalytic benefit of the transition metal oxides should be found in their Lewis acid character or redox characteristics.
2. Influence of Activation Conditions on Acidity
In the previous section, we discussed the relevance of the thermal and hydrothermal stability of pillared clays vis a vis their use in catalysis. Here we will show that in addition to the influence of calcination temperature on the textural and sieving properties of the PLS, it can also affect the total as well as the ratio of the Brønsted to Lewis acidity. This of course will have important implications on the activity and selectivity shown by PLS for acid-catalyzed reactions.
When samples are calcined either in vacuum or in air56,57,59 a decrease in acid hydroxyls (dehydroxylation) and consequently on the number of Brønsted sites is observed (Figure 6). It can be said that Brønsted acid sites associated with the pillars strongly decrease with calcination, and at calcination temperatures approaching 500 °C, they have practically dissapeared. At this temperature, the only Brønsted acids sites remaining are those associated with the clay in cases such as beidellite, where there is some isomorphic substitution of silicon for Al in the tetrahedral layer (Figure 7).
Figure 6 Variation of the intensity of the 3640−3620 cm-1 band as a function of the temperature of treatment:  (1) Al-pillared montmorillonite; (2) NH4-montmorillonite; (3) Al-pillared beidellite; and (4) NH4-beidellite.
Figure 7 Intensity of the pyridinium band (1540 cm-1) at different calcination temperatures:  (·) Al-pillared beidellite and (○) Al-pillared montmorillonite.
The total amount of Lewis sites also decreases with calcination temperature, but however, there are still Lewis sites remaining at calcination temperatures above 500 °C.57
These observations are of paramount importance when PLS have to be used in a given catalytic process. Indeed, in order to stabilize the activity of the catalyst, one should calcine the solid before it is introduced into the reactor at a temperature above the reaction temperature. Then, we have to conclude that if PLS are to be used in reactions catalyzed by Brønsted sites they have to be limited to those reactions that do not require high calcination or regeneration temperatures of the catalyst. If higher calcination temperatures are to be used one should take into account that the PLS will only present Lewis acid sites except for the Brønsted acidity associated with the clay layers or that fraction which could be regenerated in the pillars by rehydroxylation of the Lewis sites.
3. Catalytic Activity of Acid PLS
There is no doubt that the primary interest in developing acid PLS was related with their use as cracking catalysts in FCC units. Indeed the possibility of preparing PLS where the large gas oil molecules could diffuse and encounter the active acid sites was a strong driving force for the development of such catalysts. However, and despite the importance of diffusion on catalytic cracking, it is remarkable that only a limited amount of diffusional studies of reactant molecules have been carried out on PLS. In one of the few experimental studies 92 the coupling of diffusion and reactivity was measured by carrying out the cracking of n-octane and 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (2,2,4-TMP) on an acid alumina-pillared montmorillonite. The sieving properties of the material were quantified by a time-dependent parameter analogous to the constrain index that the authors called the selectivity ratio and defined as log (fraction of n-C8 remaining)/log (fraction of 2,2,4-TMP remaining). They showed that the branched alkane diffuses better in the case of the Al-PLS than in the case of faujasite zeolite. This result was in line with a mesitylene diffusion study which showed that this molecule diffuses twice as fast in a pillared Na-bentonite than in a Na Y faujasite. 93
Theoretically, the diffusion in pillared clays has been studied by molecular dynamics simulation. 94,95 These authors have studied the diffusion of finite-size molecules in model pillared clays and found that the self diffusivity (D) is a monotonically increasing function of the temperature. Clustering of the pillars has a strong effect on the diffusivity of the molecules, and furthermore, D increases monotonically as the porosity increases.
It is evident that in the case of pillared materials, the preparation procedures are the determinant factor controlling the density and distribution of pillars, with clear implications on the diffusivity of the reactants in the galleries formed, and consequently on the adsorption and reactivity. In principle one could expect that only molecules with a diameter smaller than the interlayer distance could be adsorbed and consequently could react. This is not far from reality as seen from the adsorption capacity of an Al-PLS for various hydrocarbons (Table 5). 96
Table 5. Adsorption Capacity of Al-PLS for Various Hydrocarbons
probe hydrocarbon dimension (nm) adsorption pressure (torr) uptake [g/(100 g PLS)]
n-butane 0.46 600 8.0
cyclohexane 0.61 60 8.4
carbon tetrachloride 0.69 106 11.5
1,3,5-timethylbenzene 0.76 9.4 5.6
1,2,3,5-tetramethylbenzene 0.80 6.9 0
perfluorotributylamine 1.04 31.0 0
However, it has been seen that the diffusion and adsorption are not only limited by the interlayer distance but also by the lateral distance between pillars, i.e. density of pillars. Indeed, in one study coronene (1.1 nm diameter) was successfully adsorbed on one Al-PLS with roughly the same interlayer distance than the material shown in Table 5. The adsorbent responsible had an Al content of 2.0 mmol/(g of clay) 97 instead of 2.41 mmol/(g of clay) of the sample in Table 5. Another piece of clear proof of the effect of pillar density on diffusion and adsorption is the observation97 that a PLS with 2.0 mmol Al/(g of clay) was unable to adsorb porphyrin (1.9 nm diameter), while if the PLS was prepared with 1.25 mmol Al/(g of clay), adsorption of tetraphenylporphyrin was possible.
While in most cases the authors only consider as potential catalytic surfaces those contained within the galeries, these, however, are not the only ones we can make use of, particularly when dealing with large molecules. If one is able to produce an adequated aggregation between the PLS, mesomacropores could be formed which would permit for the adsorption of large molecules. In this sense, it has been presented 98 that air-dried pillared montmorillonites do not adsorb 1,3,5-triethylbenzene probably as a consequence of face to face aggregation resulting in the formation of zeolite-like structures. Meanwhile, freeze-dried samples adsorb appreciable amounts of the above molecule, which can be explained by assuming that freeze drying promotes edge to edge or edge to face aggregation and consequently macropores are formed. With these examples, we have tried to show the importance of the preparation procedures of PLS on their final textural characteristics and consequently on their diffusion, adsorption, and catalytic properties.
When the molecule has reached the surface of the catalyst it has to find the acid site whose characteristics have been described above. Even though one can measure the acidity of the sites using physicochemical techniques, many authors prefer to compare the acidity of different solids by means of chemical reactions in the hope that the results are more realistic from the catalysis point of view. In this respect cracking of pure compounds such as cumene, 99-102p-isopropylnaphthalene, and alkanes, as well as dehydration of alcohols, 103-106 and isomerization and disproportionation of C8 and alkylaromatics 107-110 has been widely used as a test reaction in order to compare the acidic properties of different PLS.
When gas oil was cracked, it was soon recognized 111-113 that layered silicates produced more coke than conventional FCC catalysts but their behavior was in fact still better than that of amorphous silica-alumina. Furthermore, it was found that different clays containing the same pillars gave different cracking results. For example 114 in hectorites and montmorillonite pillared with the same Al or Al Zr pillars, the former was less active but more selective toward gasoline production. Laponites 115 and saponites 116 have also been pillared with Al and tested for gas oil cracking. In all cases they give good activity and selectivity for LCO, but unfortunately they produce too much coke. Overall it can be said that the main practical limitation encountered by the PLS as FCC catalysts was the high coke production and their poor resistance to the high hydrothermal temperatures existing in the regenerator. Even though in the pursuit for stable pillars considerable progress has been made, the demands of FCC have arrived to the point where the structure of the clay itself was no longer stable enough. However, the use of the interest-ratified clay rectorite has opened up a real possibility of using them in FCC with or without addition of a zeolite copromoter. Then, the actual tendency is to produce rectorite pillared with highly stable Al-Ce pillars. Although there is still a high level of coke produced this may be overcome with the new ultrashort contact time risers, which when combined with new regeneration units (two stage regenerators) will decrease the hydrothermal stability requirements of the catalyst, and open up new possibilities for the use of PL rectorites as FCC catalysts.
It is fair to say that researchers, especially in academia, often forget that technical achievements are not enough if they are not accompanied by the economic viability of the process. It is clear that for the use of PLS as a commercial FCC catalyst it must be economically competitive with the actual FCC catalyst. In order to accomplish this, three criteria need to be met: 117  (1) Use the whole clay material and preferably a clay requiring the minimal pretreatment. (2) Pillar the Ca or Ca-Na forms, not the Na form in order to avoid the need for a pre-exchange. (3) Use a clay−polymer concentration >15% solids, that can be economically and effectively spray dried to give a good particle size distribution (40−200 μm).
Until all technical and economic requirements for the use of PLS in FCC catalysts can be achieved, one may think instead of using the pillared clay for another oil refining process which requires acidic PLS but is much less demanding than FCC from the viewpoint of hydrothermal stability, coke production, and catalyst conformation. The process in mind which fulfills this is hydrotreating of heavy and residual gas oils. Hydrotreating catalysts are bifunctional catalysts where hydrogenation−dehydrogenation reactions occur on metal centers such as those on Ni-Mo, Co-Mo, Pt, or Pd, whereas cracking reactions occur on acid centers usually provided by an amorphous aluminosilicate or a zeolite having the faujasite structure. It was clear that the role of the amorphous or crystalline aluminosilicate could be in this case carried out by the PLS.
The possibility of making bifunctional Pt/PLS catalysts has been illustrated by using test reactions such as the hydroisomerization and hydrocracking of n-alkanes. 118-124 These studies, in general, showed that there is a direct correlation between the Brønsted acidity of the PLS and the hydroisomerization/ hydrocracking activity, and furthermore it is possible to achieve on these materials a good balance between hydrogenation−dehydrogenation and the cracking functions.
In the case of real refinery feeds, clays pillared with Al, Zr, or Ti have been used as the acid component of the hydrotreating catalyst formulation. 125-134 In these cases and since heavy and residual gas oils contain high levels of sulfur, the preferred hydrogenating−dehydrogenating functions (HDF) will be Ni-Co/Mo-W. A catalyst could then be prepared in which the metals are incorporated into the Al2O3 component of the catalyst, and this will be well mixed with the acid PLS component. There is no doubt that if this preparation procedure is selected, it is necessary to ensure that the distance between the HDF and the acid sites should be minimized, otherwise a fast deactivation of the catalyst by coking will occur. It is for this reason that the clay should be dispersed in a way such to produce clay layers that are completely surrounded by the inorganic oxide matrix. 135
In Table 6 the hydrocracking activity for vacuum gas oil on Ni/Mo/Al2O3 with Al-pillared and Zr-pillared bentonite are compared with those of a catalyst formed by 70% of Al2O3 with Ni/Mo and 30% of HY zeolite.134
Table 6. Hydrodesulfurization and Hydrocracking (HDS-HC) with Clays as Cracking component at 400 °C Reaction Temperaturea
component % NAP % KER % LFO % TGO % conv
HY zeolite 28.0 29.5 34.4 37.6 48.2
Al-CH bentonite 11.6 21.9 39.0 49.5 31.8
Zr-ACH bentonite 9.2 14.9 31.2 59.7 17.8
a NAP = naphtha (room temperature to 154 °C); KER = kerosene (190−271 °C); LFO = light furnace oil (190−360 °C); TGO = total gas oil (360 °C+).
It can be seen overwhelmingly that there is a much lower activity for hydrocracking shown by the PLS with respect to the zeolitic catalyst. Since this difference is even larger than the one observed between them during direct cracking of vacuum gas oil feeds, one may think that the PLS were coked much faster than the zeolite when the metals are incorporated on the Al2O3. In order to probe this coking behavior further, the authors134 have carried out the above reaction under identical conditions on the same materials, but in this case the Ni and Mo were incorporated directly on the PLS. It is evident from this second preparation that a better proximity between the acid and the metal sites should exist, and consequently hydrogen spillover should occur due to the smaller distances. The results given in Table 7, clearly reveal that in this case the PLS can give even better hydrocracking results.
Table 7. Hydrodenitrification and Hydrocracking (HDN-HC) with Clays as Hydrogenation Component Supports, at 400 °C Reaction Temperature
support % NAP % KER % LFO % TGO % conv
HY zeolite 28.0 29.5 34.4 37.6 48.2
Zr-ACH bentonite 27.2 32.0 36.4 36.4 49.2
(Al,Si)-bentonite 34.5 30.5 35.8 39.6 59.2
Al-CH bentonite 49.6 35.7 37.7 21.7 70.1
In the light of the above results it is then apparent that PLS either by themselves or combined with large pore tridirectional zeolites (HY, HBEA) have real possibilities as hydrocracking catalysts.
The other field of acid-catalyzed reactions where the porosity of the PLS together with their acid properties can be of use, is in the preparation of chemicals and fine chemicals. 136-140 Indeed there is a strong driving force in this field to replace mineral acids such as H2SO4, H3PO4, AlCl3, HF, etc. by solid acids. For instance, in the formation of phenol by decomposition of cumene hydroperoxide, diluted H2SO4 is used as the catalyst in the commercial process, but solid acids such as zeolites have also been claimed successful. 141 PLS can also decompose the cumene hydroperoxide in acetone and phenol, 142,143 but water has a negative effect on both its activity and selectivity and consequently the catalyst should be dried.
Acidic clays by themselves or pillared with Al, Zr, and Cr have been used to catalyze organic reactions requiring Lewis and Brønsted acids such as AlCl3, HF, or H2SO4. In this respect, modified clays are good catalysts for carrying out acylations:  propionylation of anisole, acylation of mesitylene with acetyl, and chloroacetyl chloride to produce 2,4,6-trimethylacetophenone and α-chloro-2,4,6-trimethylacetophenone as well as benzoylation reactions. 144 Friedel−Crafts alkylations are also successfully catalyzed by clays and pillared clays. In these reactions the larger pore of the PLS are fully involved in the alkylation of aromatics such as benzene, toluene, and biphenyl with olefins and alcohols. 145-150 In general, processes which are catalyzed by concentrated sulfuric acid can also be catalyzed by PLS, 151 but as noted in the reactions described above, it is necessary to reduce the water content of the PLS in order to avoid undesired hydrolysis reactions.
In the last years, special emphasis has been placed on using natural renewable products as raw materials or building blocks to obtain higher value added products. In this sense terpenes, sugars, fatty acids, and esters are largely used to produce aromas, food additives, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals. Many of the desired transformations are catalyzed by acids, and consequently it is worth looking at what has been done with PLS. In the case of terpenes, α-pinene, limonene, and α-terpinene, all have been reacted on alumina-pillared clays and also on a layered α-tin phosphate analogue. α-Pinene is found to be the most reactive one, giving camphene as the major product (>50%) at 100 °C. 152 In reactions such as these where many products can be formed, the fine-tuning of acidity and pore dimensions are mandatory if selective catalysts are to be prepared.
Glucose, an abundant natural raw material, can be transformed into other valuable products by glycosidation with alcohols, or dehydration to form organic acids. The glycosidation allows one to obtain fully biodegradable surfactants by generating a molecule with two hydrophobic and hydrophylic moities: PLS are able to perform this reaction with minimum formation of the ether of the alcohol. 153 Fe-, Cr-, and Al-pillared montmorillonite can also promote the shape-selective partial dehydration of glucose to organic acids. Pore widths of at least 1.0 nm allowed the 0.86 nm glucose molecule to diffuse and react directly within the micro- and mesopores of the catalyst, the principal reactions occurring in this example being the isomerization of glucose to fructose, partial dehydration of glucose to 5-hydroxy-methylfurane (HMF), rehydration and cleavage of HMF to formic acid and 4-oxopentanoic acid, and coke formation. 154 The Fe-pillared montmorillonite provided the highest glucose conversion rate, with 100% glucose conversion at 150 °C, and the lowest and highest selectivities to HMF and formic acid respectively. In the PLS examples studied the fraction of pores in the 1−3 nm range allowed glucose to diffuse but also trapped the bulky HMF intermediate, thereby directing the reaction toward the final organic acid products.
Since the reactions are occurring at relatively low temperatures, the stability of the pillars is not so critical and thus montmorillonite cross-linked by organic cations can be used as catalysts, for example in the oligomerization of oleic acid, as well as for esterification reactions. 155,156 It was observed when montmorillonite cross-linked by (CH3)4 N+ was used to produce dicarboxylic (DCA) acids by oligomerization of oleic acid155 that the yield of DCA is a funcion of the layer charge density (Figure 8). When the layer charge is high, neighboring oleic acid molecules are separated by the high density of pillars, and bimolecular reactions are thus disfavored. Conversely with one decreases the density of pillars, the pore volume increases and dimerization can occur. If the pillar density is decreased still further the available void space increases again and then trimers can be formed. This is a good example of restricted transition state selectivity in PLS.
Figure 8 Effect of charge density of montmorillonite on oligomerization of oleic acid:  (▪) dicarboxylic acid, (·) tricarboxylic acid, and (▴) oligocarboxylic acid.
When the montmorillonite was pillared with the diamine 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane156 the resultant material can catalyze the esterification of carboxylic acids with alcohols. Again in this case the density of pillars should allow the reactivity among reactants with different size to be differentiated. Indeed, in Figure 9, the data conclusively show that the reactivity decreases with increasing size of the alcohol molecule. Along these lines, it would certainly be of interest to investigate the possibilities of PLS for the esterification of fatty acids (for instance oleic acid) with linear alcohols, since it should be possible to produce esters analogous to jojoba oil and whale sperm oil which are of interest to the cosmetic industry.
Figure 9 Relative rate of esterification of acetic acid with n-pentanol (P), 3-methylbutan-1-ol (3MB), and 2,2-dimethylpropan-1-ol (2,2-DMP).
I do not want to finish this chapter on acid-catalyzed reactions on PLS without briefly introducing another type of pillared layer materials, pillared zirconium phosphates, which can also be used for acid catalysis particularly for processes requiring low temperatures. Layered phosphates containing tetravalent metals such as Zr, Ti, Pb, and Ge have been synthesized, 157-165 but the zirconium phosphates are the most stable to hydrolysis, and they have been pillared successfully with aluminum and chromium oxides, giving materials with good surface area, porosity, and thermal stability up to 400 °C.160,166-168
The pillared zirconium phosphates can catalyze isomerization, dehydration and alkylation reactions, 169-172 and when they are pillared with organic pillars of the phosphonate or sulfonic acid type, acidic properties are generated. These type of materials are denoted MELS (moleculary engineered layered structures) and look like inorganic−organic acid resins and, as such, can catalyze reactions including butene isomerization, methanol dehydration, MTBE synthesis, aromatics alkylation and cracking. 173-178
While the expectations for MELS were high, their use in acid catalysis seems to be limited today, probably due to problems derived from diffusion and regenerability of the catalysts. In general, we believe that the use of pillared zirconium phosphates, at least in acid catalysis, will be limited to some very special cases.
B. Pillar Layered Silicates as Redox Catalysts
It appears logical from the knowledge that since it is possible to generate stable pillars with a large variety of transition metals, one should be able to use those as the centers of catalytic activity for redox type reactions. This has been tried out and the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NO by NH3 was successfully carried out on titanium pillared montmorillonite. 179-181 Since it has been claimed 182,183 that Brønsted sites are important for SCR of NO by NH3, the acidity was modified by sulfation and catalysts having high resistance to SO2 were prepared.
The Ti-pillared montmorillonite in combination with Pd metal can selectively carry out the hydrogenation of 3-butenonitrile and 2-butenonitrile, to butyronitrile without isomerization. However, progressive poisoning of the catalytic sites and possible diffusional limitations decrease the activity of the catalyst. 184
Ti-pillared montmorillonites together with chiral auxiliaries in the presence of stoichiometric amounts of tertiary butyl hydroperoxide were able to enantioselectively oxidize prochiral sulfides to sulfoxides. 185 The authors claim that the Ti-PLS, possessing optimum Lewis acidity, form complexes with bridged tartrates of alkoxides reactant and oxidant (Figure 10), as inhomogeneous analogue which facilitates the oxygen delivery stereospecifically to afford higher enantioselectivity and activity.
Figure 10 Transition state of asymmetric sulfoxidation.
Elimination of contaminants by photocatalytic oxidation has also been carried out on TiO2-pillared clays. When montmorillonite was pillared with TiO2 particles and supercritically dried, the resultant PLS has porosities in the order of 0.6 mL g-1 and showed little hysteresis on the nitrogen adsorption−desorption isotherms. After photoelectrochemical deposition from hexachloroplatinic(IV) acid solution was performed, the resultant material was very active for the photocatalytic oxidation of CO in a stream of air. The high catalytic activity was attributed to the high dispersiveness of the TiO2 sol particles between the silicate layers and the smallness of the Pt particles effectively loaded on the sol particles. 186 Phenol, an important contaminant in some residual waters, has also been oxidized photochemically on small TiO2 crystallites pillared in between the clay interlayers.
Cr-pillared clays 187 have also been used in catalysis for reactions such as dehydrogenation and hydrodesulfurization. In this sense Tzou and Pinnavaia 188 have studied the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane by a chromium-pillared montmorillonite. Results from Figure 11 show that when the dispersion of the chromium was high (1.24 Cr per unit cell) in the montmorillonite the results were better than for the corresponding commercial catalyst on the basis of Cr2O3/Al2O3. When Cr-montmorillonite was presulfided it was furthermore able to desulfurate a stream containing thiophene. However, the activity decreased slowly with time, and no possibilities for commercial use are envisaged. 189 Other metals such as Fe when was used to pillar clays have a high resistance to reduction and are stable when heated (500 °C) in a reducing atmosphere. It is therefore not surprising that these Fe-PLS have been studied for their acidity to convert synthesis gas into olefins. 190-193 The selectivity for lower olefins, i.e. ethene (16.0%) and propene (38.0%), was particulary noteworthy. These results show that the iron oxide-pillared clay is in fact a shape-selective catalysts a feature which can be attributed to steric factors originating in the micropores of the pillared clay. However, increasing iron content resulted in an excess of iron outside the pillars, and conversion and selectivity to longer olefins increases.
Figure 11 Dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene on Cr-montmorillonite containing 1.24, 3.53 Cr per unit cell, and also on a commercial Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalyst.
C. New Perspectives for Pillared Materials
Recently, multilayered nanostructured materials were prepared from macromolecular precursors by modifying some of the techniques used in the semiconductor industry. 194 It is known that molecular adsorbates can form densely packed monolayers and multilayers on solid substrates by spontaneous self-assembly (SA). 195 The synthesis itself involves a series of adsorptions with poly(diallyldimethylammonium chloride) (PDDA), and exfoliated sheets of synthetic hectorite. The procedure uses silicon wafers and involves the slow addition of PDDA to the silicon wafer, followed by a fast washing with water and drying. After this, a diluted dispersion of hectorite in H2O is added to the surface, rinsed quickly, and dried. By repeating the process layers thicker than 2 nm could be prepared (Figure 12) and XRD provides evidence for structural order in PDDA-hectorite multilayers.
Figure 12 Synthesis of multilayer structures on silicon wafers.
Deposition of crystalline materials onto sheet silicates including oxides, indicates that the technique could be used for substrate growth of other materials. This method opens up a strategy for building ordered organic−inorganic layers with control over the structure and thickness. In line with this work it has been shown 196 that new materials could be formed by combining and flocculating two different single layer suspensions with opposite charges, and in this way MoWS4 which is an ordered compound was prepared by alternating MoS2 and WS2. In an analogous way a random interstratified solid was prepared from separate dilute suspensions of two layered materials, Li0.25MoO3 and Na montmorillonite. 197
Composite catalysts formed by a layered silica-alumina with carbogenic molecular sieves (CMS) have been prepared by coating the silica-alumina with a polyfurfuryl alcohol carbon molecular sieve (PFA-CMS). 198 The resultant material was shape selective for the preparation of monomethylamine (MMA) by reaction of ammonia with methanol, at 400 °C and 200−400 psig. In this case, the ratio of the sum of MMA and dimethylamine (DMA) to trimethylamine (TMA) was between 3 and 5, compared to a lower ratio obtained when using silica-alumina as the catalyst. Thus by coating the SiO2-Al2O3 with layers of PFA-CMS high selectivity to MMA is achieved by a diffusion shape-selective process (Figure 13).
Figure 13 Shape-selective production of MMA and DMA in a composite SiO2-Al2O3/CMS.
The possibilities of producing new materials via a biomineralization process has been brought to light very recently. 199 In this sense porous lamellar silicas, structurally similar to pillared clays, have been synthesized. 200 The procedure is concerned with the hydrolysis and cross-linking of a neutral inorganic alkoxide precursor in the interlayer region of multilamellar vesicles of a neutral bolaamphiphile surfactant. These materials may offer new possibilities as catalysts.
There is the possibility to modify the chemical composition and the pore size of dense layered metal oxides 201 by preswelling and pillaring with silica or alumina pillars. 202 By changing the size of the preswelling agent, the d spacing can be changed allowing pillared products with a wide range of pore sizes to be produced, which can be adapted to take into account the size of the reactant molecules during a catalytic process. For instance, layered silicic acids which can be prepared by proton exchange starting from layered silicates, such as ilerite, 203,204 magadiite, kenyaite, and kanemite, are useful hosts in the formation of pillared materials because of the presence of reactive silanol groups on their interlayer surfaces. 205 Silanol groups, which are acidic enough to allow proton transfer to an amine group, are oriented in a crystallographically regular manner on the interlayer surface, 206 and consequently, it should be possible to generate a porous material with a high degree of uniformity during pillar formation. 201,207 Using this strategy a layered silicic acid of ilerite was preswelled with octylamine and tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) was added, and a silica-pillared product was obtained by calcination in air at 600 °C. 208 The surface area of the resultant material after calcination at 600 °C was 1152 m2 g-1.
Materials of this type while they can be used as molecular sieves for adsorption and also act as supports for the specific catalytic active components, they cannot be used as molecular sieve acid catalysts. It would be then of interest to prepare such a class of materials which possessed in addition relatively strong acid sites in the layers. We can envisage one way to achieve this; the method consisting of preparing similar materials but containing layers of silica-alumina instead of silica. This could be achieved for instance, by starting with a layered compound such as MCM-50 within which the amorphous layers are formed by silica-alumina. One may attempt to pillar a layered material of this kind using TEOS and in this way generate an extremely high surface area silica-alumina with molecular sieve properties. If this is indeed a plausible solution, it can be improved if the layers instead of being amorphous are crystalline. This can be attained by taking into consideration the observation that some zeolites go through a layered intermediate phase during their synthesis. There is then the possibility of preswelling these intermediates and pillaring them, giving rise to a whole series of new pillared compounds with controlled pore dimensions in which the composition of the layers (Si/Al) as well as the nature of the pillars can be adapted to suit the particular reaction to be catalyzed. This has in fact been done with a laminar precursor of the MCM-22 zeolite, which has been pillared with TEOS, producing the MCM-36 molecular sieve. The procedure can also be applied to other layered zeolite precursors such as that formed during the preparation of ferrierite. 209 By this procedure one should obtain a pillared material combining both micro- and mesopores, and produce as a result crystalline layers, with higher thermal and hydrothermal stability.
In conclusion, new possibilities for engineering pillar layered materials are opened, which should allow us to design a catalyst with regular pores in the micro- to mesoporosity range, and to adapt them to our catalytic needs in the domains of oil refining and petrochemistry, as well as for chemicals and fine chemicals production.
III. Silica-Aluminas with Narrower Pore Size Distribution
Up to now we have described in this review how it is possible to go toward mesoporous materials starting from microporous ones. However, there is another approach aimed to produce mesoporous materials with a narrow pore size distribution, by means of preparation techniques closer to those of classical silicas or silica-aluminas. Indeed, silica-aluminas have been prepared which have catalytic properties similar to zeolites but without the zeolite pore restrictions. They have been synthesized by hydrolysis of bulky organosilanes in the presence of aluminum salts, 210 followed by introduction of an aging step into the standard technique of Co-gelalumiminate, 211 and finally cogelation of silica and alumina hydrosols in the presence of K+. 212
More recently, it was thought that one could perhaps control the pore size of the amorphous silica-aluminas by preparing them exclusively in the presence of tetraalkylammonium cations, and thus by changing the size of these one should change the size of the pore. 213 This type of synthesis should also direct the aluminum to be AlIV and to an Al−Al separation that will be controlled by the size of the organoammonium cation. As organoammonium cations, typically tetramethyl-, tetraethyl-, tetrapropyl-, and tetrabutylammonium ions were used.
The derivatives of the pore size distribution (Figure 14) indicate that when tetraalkylammonium cations are used alone the average pore size obtained is inversely related to the size of the cations used. The pores are in the mesoporous region and a quite regular distribution is obtained with total surface area up to 500 m2 g-1. In contrast when Na+/NH4+ cations were used, a very broad pore size distribution was observed.
Figure 14 Pore size distribution of Si-Al catalysts, from N2 adsorption.
The Al2O3 content of these samples was in the range of 67 to 93 SiO2/Al2O3. However, it is possible, following this procedure, to prepare samples with higher Al2O3 content (6.7 SiO2/Al2O3). In this case, narrow pore size distributions were also obtained, and the 27Al MAS NMR indicated that after the synthesis all observable aluminum was as AlIV (54 ppm) and therefore, they have the potential to generate acid sites (Figure 15). 214 After calcination at 550 °C acid samples were obtained and the NMR spectra significantly changes. Three different signals, the first one centered at 57 ppm corresponding to AlIV, a broad band at 30 ppm which can be assigned to strongly distorted AlIV, 215 and a line at 0 ppm, corresponding to octahedral aluminum, were observed. With respect to the 29Si MAS NMR spectra (Figure 16), it shows in the precalcined samples a broad resonance line showing several shoulders. This line is centered at −95 ppm, but ranges from −80 to −110 ppm. This is the chemical shift region characteristic of Si atoms surrounded by zero, one, two, three, and four Al atoms. This resonance line shifts to the region −90 to −113 ppm (maximum at −105 ppm), after calcination. No individual contribution of each silicon environment to the total resonance line was detected.
Figure 15 27Al MAS NMR spectra of sample TMA (a, synthesized and b, after calcination) and sample 2 (c, synthesized and d, after calcination).
Figure 16 29Si MAS NMR spectra of sample TMA (a, synthesized and b, after calcination) and sample TEA (c, synthesized and d, after calcination).
These samples were suitable as acid catalysts for processing large molecules. When calcined they were active and selective as gas oil cracking catalysts, with their activity being larger than that of a classical amorphous silica-alumina, showing the benefit of a more narrow and regular pore size distribution. Unfortunately, when the samples were steamed at 750 °C in the presence of 100% steam, most of the pores collapsed and their activity strongly decreased.
Very recently, the preparation of amorphous silica-aluminas with very narrow pore size distribution was revisited, and new materials were obtained from a precursor of ZSM-5, using tetrapropylammonium as template in the absence of alkali ions. 216 The SiO2/Al2O3 of the samples produced were higher than any of the samples prepared before (80 < SiO2/Al2O3 < 600), the pore size distribution was very narrow indeed (Figure 17), and the calcined samples were acidic and had very high surface areas (≥700 m2 g-1). Obviously, the first option for catalytic uses was the cracking of gas oil. The results obtained showed that these materials, when calcined, were highly active and selective, with its actual behavior being between that of a conventional amorphous silica-alumina and a zeolite. However, when the catalysts were stabilized by a hydrothermal treatment at 750 °C, the surface area strongly diminished and so did the cracking activity. Under those conditions practically all AlIV (54 ppm) disappeared, being converted into a mixture of tetrahedrally distorted (35 ppm) and octahedral (0 ppm) aluminum.
Figure 17 Pore size distribution of silica-alumina prepared with tetrapropylammonium, and in absence of alkalines.
These results strongly suggested that if catalytic benefit was desired from these silica-aluminas with a narrow distribution of pore size, one had to look to processes requiring less severe reaction or regeneration conditions than cracking. Thus, when they were used as oligomerization,216 hydroisomerization, 217 and hydrocracking catalysts, 218 the results were very promising showing the catalytic benefits from producing mesoporous materials with a narrow distribution of pore sizes.
IV. Ordered Mesoporous Materials
It is true to say that one of the most exciting discoveries in the field of materials synthesis over the last years is the formation of mesoporous silicate and aluminosilicate molecular sieves with liquid crystal templates. This family of materials generically called M41S have large channels from 1.5 to 10 nm ordered in a hexagonal (MCM-41), cubic (MCM-48), and laminar (MCM-50) array. In essence, they therefore possess both long-range order, and surface areas above 700 m2 g-1. 219-228
There is no doubt that the synthesis of these materials opens definitive new possibilities for preparing catalysts with uniform pores in the mesoporous region, which should importantly allow the relatively large molecules present in crude oils and in the production of fine chemicals to react. Obviously when a new type of materials such as these are discovered, an explosion of scientific and commercial development swiftly follows, and new investigations on every conceivable aspect of their nature, the synthesis procedures and synthesis mechanisms, heteroatom insertion, characterization, adsorption, and catalytic properties, rapidly occurs. The advances carried out in these areas form the subject to review in this chapter.
A. Synthesis of Silica M41S Molecular Sieves Materials1. Direct Synthesis
The system with a hexagonal array of pores, known as MCM-41, is the most important member of the family, and can be prepared by what was originally described as a liquid crystal templating mechanism where surfactant molecules act as templates.225 Surfactants such as C16H33(CH3)3NOH/Cl in solution were added to a sodium silicate in acid solution, to form a gel which was mixed with water and heated to 100 °C for 144 h. Of course to prepare aluminosilicate MCM-41 a source of Al must be added, to a solution of C16H33(CH3)3NOH/Cl. To the resulting solution, ultrasil silica, tetramethylammonium silicate solution, and tetramethylammonium hydroxide solutions were added while stirring. The mixture was then heated in a stirred autoclave to 100 °C for 24 h. The conditions reported here are only particular examples, since M41S materials can be synthesized from a variety of silica and alumina sources, surfactant to silicon ratios and within a broad time/temperature range.
In order to explain the synthesis mechanism and the observation that the microscopy and X-ray diffraction results presented for MCM-41 are similar to those obtained from surfactant/water liquid crystals or micellar phases, 229,230 Beck et al.225 proposed a liquid crystal templating (LCT) mechanism. They proposed that the structure is defined by the organization of surfactant molecules into liquid crystals which serve as templates for the formation of the MCM-41 structure. In other words, the first step in the synthesis would correspond to the formation of a micellar rod around the surfactant micelle which in a second step will produce a hexagonal array of rods, followed by incorporation of an inorganic array (silica, silica-alumina) around the rodlike structures (Figure 18).
Figure 18 Possible mechanistic pathways for the formation of MCM-41:  (1) liquid crystal initiated and (2) silicate anion initiated.
However, considering that the liquid crystal structures formed in surfactant solutions are highly sensitive to the overall characteristics of the solution, the authors225 also account for the possibility that the addition of the silicate results in the ordering of the subsequent silicate-encaged surfactant micelles. In a more recent paper, the authors227 carried out the synthesis of MCM-41 using surfactants with different alkyl chain lengths from C6 to C16 and worked at different synthesis temperatures. They found that only in the cases where the surfactant and synthesis conditions allow the formation of well-defined liquid crystal hexagonal structures, is the synthesis of MCM-41 successful. For instance, when C6 and C8 alkyl chain surfactants were used, MCM-41 was not formed, in agreement with the fact that the solubilities of these short chain quaternary ammonium are high, and aggregated structures are not necessary to minimize hydrophobic interactions. It is then concluded that M41S materials are formed through a mechanism in which aggregates of cationic surfactant molecules in combination with anionic silicate species form a supramolecular structure.
Davis et al., 231 by carrying out in situ 14N NMR spectroscopy, concluded that the liquid crystalline phase is not present in the synthesis medium during the formation of MCM-41, and consequently, this phase cannot be the stucture-directing agent for the synthesis of the mesoporous material in agreement with the already proposed mechanism through route 2. Thus, the randomly ordered rodlike organic micelles interact with silicate species to yield two or three monolayers of silica around the external surface of the micelles. Subsequently, these composite species spontaneously form the long-range order characteristic of MCM-41 (Figure 19). If one tries to remove the surfactant by calcination, just at the point when the long-range order is achieved, i.e. short synthesis times, the material is not stable as a consequence of the still large number of noncondensed silicate species. Longer synthesis time and/or higher temperature increases the amount of condensated silanols giving as a result stable materials.
Figure 19 Mechanism for the formation of MCM-41.
Stucky and coworkers 232-239 have developed a model that makes use of the cooperative organization of inorganic and organic molecular species into three dimensionally structured arrays. They divided the global process into three reaction steps:  multidentate binding of the silicate oligomers to the cationic surfactant, preferential silicate polymerization in the interface region, and charge density matching between the surfactant and the silicate (Figure 20). Furthermore, they state that in this model, the properties and structure of a particular system were not determined by the organic arrays that have long-range preorganized order, but by the dynamic interplay among ion-pair inorganic and organic species, so that different phases can be readily obtained through small variation of controllable synthesis parameter including mixture composition and temperature. This was proved by examining the structures in their final form and at various stages during their synthesis, by means of small angle neutron scattering (SANS). 240 The scattering contrast of the aqueous medium used in the synthesis was varied to enhance or diminish the scattering associated with the organic or inorganic precursor phases, allowing a probe of the component structures as they changed during the synthesis reaction. The SANS results verify that nucleation, growth, and phase transitions are not directed by a preassembled micellar arrays mimicking the final hexagonal pore structure. Similar conclusions have been achieved by Calabro et al. by carrying out an “in situ” ATR/FTIR study of M41S-type mesoporous silicate synthesis. 241
Figure 20 Schematic diagram of the cooperative organization of silicate-surfactant mesophases.
Following this mechanism, the criteria of charge density matching at the surfactant inorganic interfaces governs the assembly process, and consequently, the final type of structure generated. From this, it can be seen how the principle methodology can be extrapolated to prepare mesophases with different metal oxides as far as there is an electrostatic complementarity among the inorganic ions in solution, the charged surfactant head groups, and, when these charges both have the same sign, inorganic counterions.233 These authors have presented four pathways to the synthesis of mesostructured surfactant−inorganic biphasic arrays (Figure 21).
Figure 21 A general scheme for the self-assembly reaction of different surfactant and inorganic species.
In this way, cationic surfactants S+ are used for the structuring of negatively charged inorganic species I- (S+I- mesostructures). On the other hand, anionic surfactants (S-) are employed for structuring cationic inorganic species (I+) (S-I+ mesostructures). Organic−inorganic combinations with identically charged partners are possible, but then the formation of the mesostructure is mediated by the counter-charged ions which must be present in stoichiometric amounts (S+X-I+, and S-M+I- mesostructures). In cases where the degree of condensation of the oligomeric ions which form the walls is low, the removal of the template leads to the collapse of the ordered mesostructure. It would then be of both fundamental and practical interest to develop new synthetic routes which allow the template to be more easily removed. Following this line, neutral amine template surfactants have been used 242 to prepare mesoporous molecular sieves (HMS) that have thicker pore walls, higher thermal stability, and smaller cyrstallite size than MCM-41 materials produced with highly charged surfactants. The neutral charge of the template allows for easy recovery. One has however to be aware that at the pH at which the synthesis was done (pH = 6) the amine can be protonated and, therefore, this is not a real neutral template system.
Nonionic polyethylene oxide surfactants 243 and ethylene glycol hexadecyl ether at high concentrations 244 can also act as structure directors. When one considers these neutral templating routes the interaction at the S° I° interface probably occurs through hydrogen bonds which, by being weaker than electrostatic interactions, allow the extraction of the neutral template molecules by washing with ethanol. 245
It is worth discussing here a new procedure for synthesizing silica and silica-alumina MCM-41 materials, which involves highly acidic synthesis conditions instead of the basic or mildly acid conditions commonly used. Maintaining consistencies with the charge density matching principle, it has been proposed233 that the templating mechanism during the acid synthesis of MCM-41 follows a path in which S+X-I+ mesostructures are involved, where I+ is a positively charged silica precursor, S+ is the alkyltrimethylammonium cation, and X- is the compensating anion of the surfactant. If this were true it would be expected that samples prepared using different acids will give MCM-41 mesostructures with different final chemical composition, d spacings, and pore diameters. In order to check this, we have carried out the synthesis of MCM-41 in highly acidic media using two different monoprotic acids:  HCl and HNO3. 246 The gel composition used in the synthesis of the sample was 1:9.2:0.12:130 TEOS:HX:CTMABr:H2O, where TEOS is tetraethyl ortosilicate, CTMABr is cetyltrimethylammonium bromide, and HX is HCl (sample 1) or HNO3 (sample 2). The elemental analyses of the synthesized samples are given in Table 8.
Table 8. Elemental Analysis of the MCM-41 Samples Synthesized in a Highly Acidic Media:  HCl (Sample 1) and HNO3 (Sample 2)
C (wt %) H (wt %) N (wt %) C/N CTMA/N
sample 1 34.09 6.91 2.11 18.8 0.99
sample 2 37.46 7.40 5.10 8.57 0.45
The results from Table 8 indicate that sample 2 has a lower C/N ratio than sample 1. Moreover the CTMA/N ratios obtained strongly suggest that the liquid crystals are CTMA+Cl-SiO+ and CTMA+NO3-SiO+ for samples 1 and 2, respectively. The presence of NO3- in sample 2 was proven from the presence of an IR band at 1383 cm-1 which can be assigned to the stretching vibration of NO3- groups. The XRD patterns of samples 1 and 2 (Figure 22) show that the typical reflections of MCM-41 are shifted to lower 2θ angles in the sample prepared in presence of HNO3, giving a unit cell parameter of 4.4 nm instead of the 4.1 nm value found for sample 1. This expansion of the unit cell size could be easily explained by considering that NO3-, which has a larger size than Cl-, is located between the silica layer and the surfactant core.
Figure 22 XRD (Cu Kα) of MCM-41 prepared in strong acid media generated by HCl and HNO3.
Up to this point in the discussion everything appears to be simply explained by assuming the predicted S+X-I+ mesostructures to be correct. However, there is one experimental observation which makes us reconsider the above model. This is the fact that in the samples prepared under a highly acidic synthesis medium, the template can be removed from the core of the MCM-41 by a simple washing with water at room temperature. The removal of the liquid crystal template is accompanied by a decrease in the structural order of the MCM-41 and by a polymerization of the silica layer. The easy removal of the template indicates that the interaction between the silica layer and the surfactant should be very weak and more probably associated with the van der Waals interaction between oligomers of silicic acid-like species and the anions that compensate the surfactant cation. Therefore, we think that in this case the mesostructure should be written as I°X-S+, giving a neutral structure instead of the positively charged one previously proposed.233
Recent work on synthesis of mesoporous molecular sieve silicates has focused on improving the synthesis by decreasing the temperature and synthesis time, as well as by controlling the crystal size and pore dimensions. In this way, the synthesis of MCM-41 at room temperature (25 °C) in alkaline media was achieved,234 but the silica groups of the material were poorly condensed, and the resultant product was much less thermally stable than the ones obtained at higher temperatures. Other synthetic efforts 247,248 have succeeded in preparing stable MCM-41 samples at room temperature. In this case, some condensation of silanol groups should be already achieved either during an aging process or during the synthesis itself, while a further polymerization should occur during drying and calcination of the sample.
The control of crystal size can be of paramount importance when mesoporous molecular sieves with unidirectional channels, such as MCM-41, are to be used in catalytic processes. In principle and if diffusion limitations can exist, one should decrease as much as possible the length of the pores, and this is achieved synthetically, by decreasing the crystal size of the product. In the case of zeolites this can be done by changing the relative rate of nucleation vs the crystal growth and/or by adding seeds to the synthesis media. However, when mesoporous materials are to be synthesized the methods used for zeolites cannot be easily applied, even though conceptually they should work. However, by carrying out the synthesis of zeolites and zeotypes by microwave heating, it is found that this homogeneous heating consequently results in more homogeneous nucleation and shorter crystallization times compared to conventional autoclaving. When microwave heating was applied to the synthesis of MCM-41, 249-253 high-quality hexagonal mesoporous materials of good thermal stability were obtained by heating precursor gels to about 150 °C for 1 h or even less. Calcined samples had a uniform size of about 100 nm. 254 The homogeneousness and small crystal sizes obtained are probably the result of the fast and homogeneous condensation reactions occurring during the microwave synthesis. This fast condensation should also be responsible for the high thermal stability of the resultant materials.
Again from the point of view of catalytic application, it would be of interest not only to have shorter length pores but, if possible, to have them communicated through a tridimensional pore network, instead of the unidirectional pore system of the MCM-41. Very recently, it has been shown 255 that it is possible to obtain mesoporous silica material with a tridimensional disordered network of short wormlike channels, with uniform diameters. It is claimed that the fully disordered channel branching system similar to a three-dimensional fractal with truly uniform channel widths, distinguishes the present material with respect to the ordered MCM-41. This material was synthesized by an electrostatic templating route using sodium silicate (CTMACl) and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid tetrasodium salt. The silicate was hydrothermally polymerized surrounding CTMA micelles in aqueous solution at 370 K, similar to hydrothermal synthesis of MCM-41 using repeated pH adjustment. 256,257
One possibility for the M41S mesoporous materials, and more specifically the MCM-41 structure, is to be synthesized with different pore diameters, which can range from 1.5 to 10 nm. In the original work, the pore size in mesoporous silica was expanded by changing the chain length of the surfactant, and also by the addition into the synthesis medium of organic molecules, in particular 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene (TMB), the hydrophobic solvation interactions of the aromatic molecules playing the key role.225 Very recently 258 alkanes of different chain length have been used together with the surfactant to synthesize MCM-41 with different pore diameter. The XRD patterns of the resultant samples suggest that the surfactant molecule in the micelle is fully extended (Figure 23a), and the size of such micelle increases with the chain length of the n-alkane (Figure 23b), at least until the molecule has 15 carbon atoms. However, it is obvious that the introduction of large amounts of organic (up to 20 wt % in the case of TMB) 259 in order to swell the original liquid crystals is not an appropriate procedure, since their use involves not only a larger reaction volume, but also additional separation processes. It would be highly desirable to increase and control the pore size of the mesoporous materials without introducing organic swelling agents. This has been recently achieved 260 by adjusting the composition of the gel and the crystallization variables. In this way, pure siliceous MCM-41 with different pore diameters were hydrothermally synthesized with the following molar composition:  SiO2:XCTMABr:0.14M2O:26.2H2O, where X was varied between 0.06 and 0.15, and M represents cations such as tetramethylammonium (TMA+), tetraethylammonium (TEA+), or Na+, which were added as hydroxides. In a typical synthesis, an aqueous solution of tetramethylammonium silicate obtained from the reaction between Aerosil silica, and TMAOH solution (25% TMAOH, 10% SiO2) was added to an aqueous solution containing 9.86 wt % CTMABr. Amorphous silica was then added under continuous stirring. The homogeneous gel (pH ∼ 13.8) was sealed in Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclaves and heated at 150 °C under static conditions, allowing the crystallization time to be varied between 1 and 10 days. The resultant MCM-41 was stable to calcination.
Figure 23 Schematic drawing of a micelle of surfactant molecules:  (a) in the absence of a solubilizing agent and (b) in the presence of n-alkanes as solubilizing agents.
The results in Figure 24 nicely show that a typical MCM-41 material with d100 = 4.25 nm is formed in the presence of TMA+ when the crystallization time was 24 h. Longer crystallization times under these conditions increase the pore diameter of the sample, until reaching a maximum of 7.0 nm after 10 days. If crystallization is prolonged beyond that a loss of crystallinity accompanied by a decrease in the pore volume of the mesoporous material was observed. In Figure 25 a correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of the resultant MCM-41 sample and the crystallization time is given. Variables such as temperature, CTMA/SiO2 ratio, and nature of the cation (TMA+, TEA+, Na+) are all important for controlling the process. The swelling mechanism observed may be related to the replacement of some CTMA+ by tetraalkylammonium cations in the interphase formed between the liquid crystal and the silica surfaces.
Figure 24 XRD (Cu Kα) of MCM-41 samples with different pore diameter.
Figure 25 Correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of MCM-41 and the crystallization time.
2. Indirect Synthesis
Practically at the same time that researchers from Mobil discovered the synthesis of the mesoporous materials M41S, MCM-48, and MCM-50 by using surfactants and a solubilized silica source, Kuroda et al. 261,262 reported the preparation of highly ordered mesoporous FSM-16 materials derived from a layered polysilicate. In this case a mesoporous silica with uniform pore size was prepared by ion exchange of interlayer Na ions of the layered polysilicate kanemite for surfactants. The benefit of using kanemite is due to the fact that this layered material is extremely flexible owing to the relatively low degree of polymerization in its structure, as it is demonstrated by the high Q3/Q4 ratio observed by 29Si MAS NMR (3:1). Then, upon intercalation with the surfactant the highly flexible sheets of kanemite are folded and cross-linked to each other to form the three-dimensional framework (Figure 26). 263 In agreement with this mechanism, the pore size could be changed by varying the alkyl chain length of the surfactant, and a more precise pore-size control was achieved by trimethylsilylation of the inner surface of the pores. 264
Figure 26 The model of folding silicate sheets of kanemite.
The high pH used in the ion exchange of the surfactant molecules at which silica from the kanemite can in fact be dissolved reveals the distinct possibility that, essentially, this synthesis procedure is the same as that previously reported by Mobil researchers, in the sense that kanemite was just a source of silica. However, recent studies of FSM-16226,263,265 have shown that despite the fact that MCM-41 and FSM-16 have similar pore size and surface areas, their mechanism of formation is different. Indeed, the MCM-41 is formed from a silicate anion initiated liquid crystal templating mechanism, while the layered silicate derived materials are formed by intercalation of the layered silicate using the surfactant present in the synthesis mixture. 266 Rheological data on the surfactant solutions used to form both materials indicate the presence of micelles in the MCM-41, while no micelles were observed at the low surfactant concentrations used with the layered silicates. There is a particularly interesting study which follows the formation of silica−surfactant mesophases by real time in situ X-ray powder diffraction. 267 These authors clearly demonstrate the different synthesis mechanism for MCM-41 and FSM-16, by finding evidence for the formation of an intermediate lamellar silica−surfactant intercalate during the synthesis starting from kanemite, whereas no intermediate phases are observed during the formation of MCM-41 by the direct synthesis. Vartuli et al.226 found that the pore size distribution is broader in the case of FSM-16, where the total pore volume and hydrocarbon sorption capacity is about 5 times higher in the case of the MCM-41 materials. On the other hand, due to a higher degree of condensation in the silica walls in the FSM-16, this has a higher thermal and hydrothermal stability than MCM-41.266
It can be then concluded that FSM-16 and MCM-41 are probably different materials, and further detailed characterization will be necessary in order to see possible advantages of each one of them for different applications.
B. Synthesis of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves Containing Elements Other Than Silica
The success achieved in preparing silica mesopores was the starting point for using the concept to produce materials with potential catalytic applications. The first of which was to produce mesoporous acid materials which could be used for cracking large molecules present in vacuum gas oil and residues. Thus, in order to produce acidic mesostructured materials, MCM-41 and MCM-48 with walls of silica-alumina, where the Al was tetrahedrally coordinated, were synthesized.231,268-271
In general, it appears from the XRD data that the introduction of Al on the walls during the synthesis decreases the order in the material. 269,272 It has been claimed that the order could be improved in the presence of aluminum, if instead of SiO2 one uses sodium silicate as the Si source for the synthesis. 273,274 However, it should be taken into account that in this synthesis, a part of the aluminum is not incorporated as AlIV but remains as AlVI, and consequently, the “framework” Si/Al ratio in the walls is much lower than the one given by the chemical analysis. On the contrary, we believe that the apparent “worse” XRD pattern obtained when introducing aluminum, is not a result of a less ordered material but due to the formation of smaller crystallites of MCM-41. The precise nature of the aluminum source can also play, an important role on the type of final incorporated species obtained.272 For instance, it has been claimed that when Catapal alumina or sodium aluminate is used, virtually all the Al in the solid is hexacoordinated. In contrast by employing instead aluminum sulfate or aluminum isopropoxide, MCM-41 can be easily prepared with Al in tetracoordination. While this is true in general terms, it has to be pointed out, that it is possible, regardless of the aluminum source, to incorporate all of it as AlIV if the synthesis conditions are properly optimized.
In Table 9 we have summarized the most significant reports highlighting the synthesis variables for the incorporation of Al into the wall of MCM-41.
Table 9. Reports on the Incorporation of Al to the Structure of MCM-41
author source of Al Si/Al OHef/SiO2 Na/Al Al coordination
Reddy, K. M. (SO4)3Al2 25 0.10 4.32 tetrahedral
  (C3OH7)3Al 25 0.22 4.32 tetra + octa
  Al2O3·xH2O 25 0.22 4.32 octahedral
Luan, Z. (SO4)3Al2 2.5−60 11.5 (ph) not specified tetrahedral
  NaAlO2 15 11.5 (ph) not specified tetra + octa
  Al orthophospate 15 11.5 (ph) not specified tetra + octa
  Al acetylacetonate 15 11.5 (ph) not specified tetra + octa
  Al isopropylate 15 11.5 (ph) not specified tetra + octa
  Al2O3·xH2O 6−90 11.5 (ph) not specified octahedral
Schmidt, R. NaAlO2 8.5 0.26 1.4 tetrahedral
Borade, R. B. NaAlO2 2 0.31 1.1 tetrahedral
Owing to the importance of the incorporation of Al in a tetrahedral coordination in the walls of MCM-41 for its final catalytic properties, we decided to carry out a synthetic investigation in which the most important variables, i.e. OH/SiO2, Na/Al, and alumina source, were systematically varied (Table 10). When the results were plotted (Figure 27), it could be clearly seen that when the aluminum source is polymeric (pseudobohemite), the incorporation of Al in the framework of the MCM-41 decreases with decreasing OH/SiO2 ratio in the gel. It appears that for OH/SiO2 < 0.13 not all the alumina is depolymerized in AlO2- species, and consequently, it will be impossible to incorporate all the aluminum in the framework as AlIV. Thus, consequently in those synthesis where one needs to work at pH values below 0.13, sodium aluminate has to be used if the purpose is to introduce all Al as AlIV.
Figure 27 Influence of the OH/SiO2, and alumina source on the ratio of AlIV/AlIV+AlVI in the MCM-41 formed.
Table 10. Effect of the Compositional Synthesis Variables on the Incorporation of Al in MCM-41
  Al-MCM-41
  Al2O3·xH2O NaAlO2 Al° Al(C3OH7)3
  Al15 Al4 Al8 Al9 Al7 Al6 Al5 Al14 Al10 Al13 Al11 Al12 Al16
OHef/SiO2 0.30 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.16 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.16 0.08 0.16 0.16 0.17
Na/Ala 3.3 0 0 3.6 0 0 0 1.9 1.1 1.1 0 0 2.4
Si/Alb 15.8 12.8 16.1 14 15.8 13.5 18.5 13.7 15.7 13.4 14.6 18 13.6
Altetr 0.2 1 1 0.1 1 0.9 0.66 0.1 1 1 1 1 0.75
Altetr/Aloct
ppcc (%) 15.1 20.0 19.6 11.9 22.5 19.0 19.4 8.0 23.3 19.8 19.0 20.0 16.7
a Ratio in gel.b Ratio in the solid c Weight lost at temperatures above 300 °C.
It can also be observed that if the level of Na+ in the synthesis gel is too high (Na/Al ≥ 1.9) the isomorphic substitution of Si for Al is impeded, regardless of the Al source. For instance, a sample prepared from aluminum isopropoxide at a OH/SiO2 ratio for which the incorporation of Al as AlIV would be complete in absence of Na+, only 75% of the Al was incorporated when Na+ was introduced in a Na/Al ratio of 2.4. When pseudobohemite is used as a source of aluminum and the Na/Al ratio is increased up to a value of 3.6, only 10% of the total aluminum is incorporated as AlIV (Table 10).
Attempts have also been made to prepare samples with a high aluminum content. In this direction, it has been suggested271,274 that MCM-41 with a Si/Al ratio of 4 can be prepared using sodium silicate and sodium aluminate as sources of Si and Al, respectively. However, the 27Al MAS NMR of such samples indicates that this particular MCM-41 contains significant quantities of aluminum within octahedral coordination. More recently, Borade and Clearfield 275 have synthesized MCM-41 with Si/Al ratios as low as 2 without observing the presence of octahedral aluminum by 27Al MAS NMR, using sodium aluminate and fumed silica as the sources of aluminum and silicon, respectively.
Even though, it is possible to prepare low Si/Al ratio MCM-41 and MCM-48 samples with the aluminum being tetrahedrally coordinated, what is important, from a catalytic point of view, is the amount of AlIV left after the calcination procedures necessary to activate the catalysts. In this sense, it appears that after calcination at temperatures above 500 °C the intensity of the NMR peak corresponding to tetrahedral aluminum decreases, while AlVI is formed.268,276-278 The results can be explained by assuming that upon calcination the AlIV either becomes distorted or is removed from the aluminosilicate structure. Experiments indicate that when calcined samples are subjected to deep hydration the NMR peak of tetrahedral aluminum can be restored. In our opinion it is more likely that a part of the original AlIV whose coordination was distorted by the thermal treatment could be restored by hydration, but it is certainly true that there is also a part of the aluminum which came out of the silicate structure and which remains as AlVI.
If the introduction of Al in the mesostructure was important from the point of view of acid catalysis, it is also very important to introduce, transition metal elements such as Ti, V, and Cr in order to prepare mesoporous catalysts with redox properties. Following the interest stemming from the synthesis of Ti-zeolites and their application as selective oxidation catalysts 279-281 it was thought that it would be of great interest to incorporate Ti in mesoporous MCM-41, for reasons of its activity in oxidation reactions while allowing larger molecules to diffuse. 282 Thus Ti was incorporated in a mesoporous structure by direct synthesis working in absence of alkaline ions and using a cationic282 or a neutral surfactant. 283,284 It was demonstrated by means of UV−vis spectroscopy and EXAFS that Ti was not in the form of anatase, but it was incorporated into the silicate wall, in the form of isolated tetrahedrally coordinated titanium, with some small amount of dimers of the type Ti−O−Ti also identified to be present. 285,286 Ti−Si−MCM-41 materials were active catalysts for reactions which will be described later such as the epoxidation of olefins and oxidation of sulfides to sulfoxides and sulfones. Titanium has also been introduced by direct synthesis in a MCM-48 structure, using TEOS and tetraisopropyl titanate as the sources of Si and Ti, respectively. 287,288
Vanadium-containing MCM-41 structures could also be used as a selective oxidation catalyst, as far as the vanadium atoms were incorporated into the silicate walls and isolated one from another. This has also been achieved, 287,289 as 51V NMR demonstrated the presence of vanadium in the framework of the MCM-41. Raman and NMR methods have been further used to support the above conclusions proving that V2O5 was not present.
Finally, it has also been intended to introduce Cr in the structure of MCM-41.287 However, unlike Ti, only a few Cr3+ ions, similar to what occurs in zeolites, 290 will properly substitute isomorphously for Si in the walls, as was proven by the fact that when the Cr-MCM-41 was washed with diluted acetic acid, approximately half the amount of Cr is depleted from the sample.
Mesoporous manganosilicates having hexagonal, cubic, and lamellar structures have been synthesized at a low surfactant/Si ratio (0.12), and with a broad range of Mn/Si ratios (0.0004−0.09). 291,292 The phase formed depends on temperature and NaOH content, but the addition of Mn ions induced the formation of the cubic phase also at low surfactant to Si ratio. With respect to the state of the Mn in the resultant material, it appears from EPR studies that at room temperature it is located in the walls or interface region of the mesoporous materials. Unfortunately after calcination, the manganese ions migrate into the pores.
From the mechanism of formation of mesostructures, it should be possible, in principle, by the adequate selection of a cationic or anionic surfactant, to synthesize a large variety of metal oxide/surfactant composite materials. One can easily imagine the interest of these types of materials in catalysis just by considering the benefit of a stable mesoporous alumina with very high surface area as catalyst support, or the preparation of a high surface area zirconia with regular pores that can act as a catalyst support, 293 and also as zirconia-based solid acids.1,295-297 If a mesostructure of pure TiO2 could be prepared, it will certainly be of use not only as a support but also for application in photocatalytic processes.
The first attempt to form mesostructured pure oxides other than SiO2 was done with tungsten, iron, and lead. In this case, even though the mesostructure was formed, attempts to remove the surfactant within the channels caused the pore structure to collapse. 298 A similar approach to alumina-based mesoporous material, resulted in the formation of lamellar phases.233 However, very recently Yada et al. 299 have found that an aluminum-based dodecyl sulfate mesostructured material with a hexagonal framework can be obtained by the homogeneous precipitation method using urea and converted into a mesoporous alumina with some structural disorder but with the hexagonal structure of its retained principal framework. So far the results show that after calcination at 600 °C the washed composite solid with hexagonal structure is deorganized into a completely disordered form but preserves the narrow distribution of pores. If the calcination is done at 1000 °C the material is converted into α- and γ-alumina. When calcination was avoided and the anionic surfactant was removed by washing with ethanol or acetone, the hexagonal structure collapsed. This collapse could be avoided if a mesostructure of alumina was formed via S°I° and N°I° pathways. This has been very recently shown, and mesoporous alumina molecular sieves have been prepared by a N°I° assembly process. 300 Three forms of mesoporous aluminas, named MSU-1, MSU-2, and MSU-3, have been prepared by the hydrolysis of tri-sec-butoxyaluminum at room temperature in the presence of nonionic polyethylene oxide (PEO) surfactants. PEO- based surfactants adopt spherical to long “wormlike” micellar structures in aqueous solution, and the wormlike structure is hence adopted by the MSU-X alumina structures. However, even if the channels in MSU-X are more or less regular in diameter, they have no discernible long-range order, unlike the MCM-41 structure.300 The walls of the channels in the case of MSU-X are larger for aluminas than for silicas, resulting in lower surface areas (420−535 m2 g-1) for the former. The coordination of aluminum in the as-synthesized samples corresponds to AlIV, AlV and AlVI, AlVI being dominant. After calcination at 500 °C the 4- and 5-coordinations increase at expense of the AlVI sites.
Alumina mesophases have also been synthesized by reacting aluminum alkoxides and carboxylic acids with controlled amounts of water in low molecular weight alcohol solvents. These materials give after calcination high surface area alumina (up to 710 m2 g-1) with pores in the mesopore region centered around 2.0 mm. However, in this case the pores were not ordered within any type of symmetry. 301
Further work should be done on these aluminas, and to particularly test them as supports for preparing HDS and hydrogenation catalysts, as well as, when conveniently doped, for base-catalyzed reactions.
As mentioned above, it is of considerable interest for catalysis to prepare large surface area mesoporous zirconia, and therefore, it is not surprising that this has been studied by several groups. Schüth et al. 302 were the first reporting on the synthesis of mesoporous zirconia, while Hudson and Knowles 303 have shown that cationic quaternary ammonium surfactants can be used to prepare zirconia in the mesoporous range. The authors have pointed out that the conventional templating mechanism of mesopore formation is not operative in their case, and a scaffolding mechanism was invoked in order to explain the ordering. The pore size distribution increases with the chain length of the surfactant, and BET surface areas of 240−360 m2 g-1 can be obtained depending upon the chain length of the incorporated surfactant. What can be of interest from the viewpoint of the catalytic use of these materials as zirconia-sulfated solid acids, is the observation that it is possible to prepare them in the form of tetragonal zirconium(IV) oxide, by calcination at 650 °C. The one-step preparation of sulfated mesoporous zirconia with good acidic properties has been performed by using lauryl sulfate as surfactant. This preparation route could avoid further synthetic wet steps after the synthesis. 304 The samples prepared with high concentrations of this surfactant (SZ-848) give, after calcination at 575 °C, a broad tetragonal zirconia XRD fingerprint, while mesoporosity was not lost. The resulting samples were indeed active for low temperature n-butane isomerization and cracking.
Up to this point we have described synthetic routes to mesoporous zirconia which are based on expensive alkoxides, relying alternatively on the sulfate ion to link the surfactant and zirconium, or do not involve self-assembly. There are however two new synthesis routes which involve:  a self-assembly of a soluble zirconia precursor with an amphoteric surfactant template, 305 and a neutral amine route. 306 The amphoteric surfactant, cocamidopropylbetaine (CAPB), which has quaternary ammonium and carboxylate groups, can bond to both negatively and positively charged inorganic species. Additional benefits arising from this surfactant is that it does not need a bridging anion for the formation of the surfactant−Zr complex, and can also be used in a wide pH range. Thus, when the synthesis is carried out at low pH, the quaternary ammonium group of CAPB is positively charged, the carboxylic group is protonated, and the positively charged inorganic species attack to the surfactant by reaction with the carboxyl group. Concurrent surfactant bonding with the inorganic component and aggregation of the micellar structures leads to formation of the hexagonal mesophase305 (Figure 28). This work opens new possibilities in mesoporous synthesis specially for those involving cationic inorganic species.
Figure 28 Proposed amphoteric surfactant templating route for hexagonal mesophase formation where the carboxylate group provides for the bonding of the surfactant with the inorganic species and the quaternary ammonium group maintains a large head group area for hexagonal mesophase formation.
When zirconia mesostructures were prepared with neutral amines, lamellar phases were obtained using C8 to C16 alkylamines. However, these lamellar phases changed to a hexagonal structure when water was introduced in the reaction mixture.
In the case of titania mesoporous solids, only partial success has been obtained in preparing stable surfactant-free materials. A hexagonal phase of mesoporous TiO2 was prepared with alkyl phosphate surfactants, 307 in which the alkyl phosphate could be partially removed from the pores, with the phosphate units being retained in the oxide phase. Others 308 have used a neutral surfactant (decyl- or hexadecylamine), together with titanium alkoxide in a mixture of isopropyl alcohol and water. After aging at room temperature for 18 h or in a hydrothermal treatment at 90 °C for 18 h, mesoporous structures with pores of 2.9 and 3.2 nm for decylamine and hexadecylamine surfactants, respectively, were obtained. Unfortunately, removal of the amine from the pores, either thermally or by using solvents, results in the destruction of the mesoporous structure. More success was obtained when the surfactant was partially removed in an acidified dilute alcohol medium.308
By using an anionic surfactant such as sodium dioctylsulfosuccinate (AOT), it was possible to obtain a mesostructure SnO2-AOT. However, it has not been possible up to now, to remove the template without destroying the mesophase.308
Before finishing the chapter devoted to the synthesis of mesoporous molecular sieves, two novel mesoporous compounds should be introduced. In one case, the authors 309 proposed that since there are microporous aluminophosphates (AlPOs), it also could be of interest and benefit to extend the liquid crystal templating approach to the synthesis of mesoporous AlPO4. They used long-chain primary and tertiary amines, but at the present time only lamellar AlPO4 materials were obtained which did not allow template removal without structural collapse.
In an analogous way and from the prior knowledge achieved in vanadium phosphorous oxides (VPO) containing micropore 310 and lamellar compounds formed by intercalation of organic molecules, 311-313 a novel three-dimensional ordered mesoporous VPO has been successfully synthesized. Using n-tetradecyltrimethylammonium chloride as surfactant, and VOHPO4 and heating at 76 °C for 48 h, a layered structure was formed which contained the surfactant. When this was suspended in water and hydrothermally treated at 170 °C for 48 h, the layered VPO was transformed into another mesoporous material with hexagonal structure. The evolution in this case bears same resemblance to the synthesis of MCM-41 from kanemite, in the sense that the surfactant remaining in the layer forms a micelle in water and forces the layer to bend. We do not know from the report if the mesoporous VPO compound remains stable after removing the surfactant.
In conclusion, it can be said that despite a period of very intensive work over the last two years in the synthesis of mesoporous molecular sieves using liquid crystals as templates, the field is in its infancy. Still much effort is needed in many cases to produce samples in which the surfactant could easily be removed and recovered without losing order or even destroying the pore structure. Furthermore it will be of great scientific interest and practical use to synthesize well-structured mesoporous materials with a tridirectional system of communicating channels which will enhance the diffusivity of bulky reactants and products. Finally, it is easy to understand that the synthesis of mesoporous materials of the M41S type but with crystalline microporous walls will generate highly thermally stable systems with a well-defined bimodal pore system will certainly be of much interest for catalytic and membrane applications. In any case, it is possible to forecast that the possibilities for synthesizing new materials based on these concepts is immense and only limited by the scope of our imagination.
C. Characterization of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves
When one suspects that a mesoporous molecular sieve has been synthesized a well-established methodology must be followed to demonstrate that this is indeed the case. The procedure involves, first, the use of XRD and synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction which should be carried out at low angles. The XRD powder d spacings of well-prepared MCM-41 and MCM-48 (Figure 29) can be indexed on a hexagonal and cubic lattice, respectively.225,314-318 XRD combined with other techniques, such as HRTEM,220,225 electron diffraction,220 and lattice images, 319 have been key methods for the characterization of these materials and identification of the phase obtained, i.e. cubic (MCM-48), hexagonal (MCM-41), and lamellar (MCM-50). From a combination of these techniques, two structural models with an amorphous wall have been constructed for MCM-41 as shown in Figure 30. 320
Figure 29 Powder X-ray diffraction paterns (Cu Kα) of as prepared MCM-41 (hexagonal), MCM-48 (cubic), and MCM-50 (lamellar) materials.
Figure 30 Structural model of MCM-41 with cylindrical pore (A) and hexagonal pore (B).
In model A, a cylindrical pore structure, with a lattice constant of 4.46 nm and a wall thickness of 0.84 nm, was proposed by Feuston and Higgins319 by a classical molecular dynamics simulation approach. The authors simulate 103−104 atoms to model MCM-41 and analyzed models with different lattice constants and wall thicknesses. When comparing their simulation with experimental values, they found that the simulated X-ray patterns of amorphous silica with wall thickness larger than 1.1 nm agreed well with the experiments. The percentage of silicon in the form of silanols obtained from the model (17−28%) also agrees fairly well with the observed diffraction pattern. It has to be pointed out, however, that an inverse relationship between the diameter of the micelle template and the wall thickness of the pores was found. Thus, decreasing the template diameter leads to thicker walls between hexagonal packed cylindrical pores. For model B, a hexagonal pore structure with an interpore distance of ∼3.5 nm was proposed by Behrens et al. 321 Both the cylindrical and hexagonal pore structures have been visualized by HRTEM. 322
A unified model based on the void fraction and structure of nanoporous materials structures has been proposed by Garcés. 323 The author reduces the pores to spheres, plates, and cylinders with dense shells and inner cores. Most of the material mass is assigned to the surfaces of the geometrical forms with empty spaces inside. This gives rise to a single sphere representing the structure. The radius of the empty interior space is adjusted so the void in the center matches experimentally found void fractions. When this model is applied to MCM-41, the author finds that a spherical fits most closely, which implies that instead of smooth cylindrical channels, the pores of MCM-41 can be seen as spherical cages connected by narrower necks.
Adsorption of molecules has been widely used to map the pore size distribution of solid catalysts. In this sense the physisorption of gases such as N2, O2, and Ar have been used to characterize the porosity of M41S samples and more specifically MCM-41. 324-327 When adsorption was carried out on a MCM-41 sample with 4.0 nm pore diameter (Figure 31), it was found that the isotherm for N2 is type IV in the IUPAC classification, and no adsorption−desorption hysteresis was found at the boiling temperature of N2 (77.4 K). In the case of Ar and O2 the isotherm is also of type IV, but they exhibit well-defined hysteresis loops of the VI type. These results can be attributed to capillary condensation taking place within a narrow range of tubular pores with effective width of 3.3−4.3 nm, 328 confirming both the high degree of pore uniformity and the dimension of the pore determined by HRTEM.325 Further adsorption studies under different experimental conditions and on samples with different pore diameters showed that the presence and size of the hysteresis loop depend on the adsorbate,325 pore size, 329,330 and temperature. 331 In this respect, no nitrogen hysteresis loops were found for materials with pore sizes of 2.5−4.0 nm, but a nitrogen isotherm on a 4.5 nm material showed hysteresis. Finally, adsorption of cyclopentane at different temperatures showed that the presence and size of hysteresis depends on the temperature.
Figure 31 Adsorption isotherm of nitrogen (a), argon (b), and oxygen (c) on MCM-41 at 77K. Different symbols denote different runs; filled symbols denote desorption.
These samples with monodispersive pore channels represent a beautiful model for standardizing adsorption measurements and methods for characterization of porous solids. 332 In fact, when N2 adsorption isotherms are modeled using nonlocal density functional theory (NLDFT) over a wide range of pore sizes (18−80 Å), it is found326 that the theoretical thermal dependence of the thermodynamic adsorption−desorption hysteresis predicted by NLDFT is confirmed by the experimental measurements.
We have here then a type of material with a regular pore structure in the mesoporous region where the pore diameter cannot only be perfectly measured by gas adsorption, but the materials themselves can serve as models for adsorption of gases in porous solids. Owing to the success of N2 and Ar adsorption in terms of the determination of the pore diameter, one can combine the XRD results together with the pore size determined from gas adsorption experiments to find the thickness of the wall. When this is done, it is found that in the regular MCM-41 samples the wall thickness varies little around 1.0 nm. We will see later that the value can be changed, having as a consequence important implications on the stability of the sample.
Adsorption studies, besides their convenience for measuring the textural properties of these materials, can also be used to study the interaction of molecules with the walls of the pores, a feature of particular importance from the point of view of the diffusion and catalytic properties of the material. In this sense, adsorption studies of polar and nonpolar molecules can be quite useful for measuring the hydrophobic and hydrophilic properties of M41S mesoporous materials. When H2O was adsorbed at 297 K on a MCM-41 sample, 333 the isotherm obtained showed a fairly narrow hysteresis loop but with no identifiable B. The isotherm is of type V in the IUPAC classification, indicating relatively weak adsorbent−adsorbate interactions. From these results,333 one would conclude that the MCM-41 surface is quite hydrophobic, with an uptake of water similar to that given by hydroxylated silica and many carbons. 334 This conclusion is nevertheless surprising if one considers the high number of silanol groups present in these materials. However, the hydrophobic character of MCM-41 has been clearly demonstrated by carrying out the adsorption of cyclohexane and water, and benzene and H2O. 335,336 The results obtained show that while in a hydrophilic zeolite, such as faujasite, large amounts of benzene and H2O are adsorbed, when the same adsorbates were used on a sample of siliceous MCM-41, much larger amounts of benzene than H2O were adsorbed. This adsorption characteristic is of vital importance when reactants with different polarities, for instance H2O or H2O2 and olefins, have to react and certainly it will control the rate of the diffusion−adsorption reaction in those cases.
Another powerful technique for the characterization of M41S mesoporous materials is NMR spectroscopy. Its benefits include the determination of the pore size and the mechanism of formation of the material, to the study of the diffusion of molecules in the pores, and finally, to the organization of the walls in the pure silica and in the isomorphous substituted materials, before and after calcination pretreatments.
A large amount of effort was directed at inferring the pore size distribution of solids from NMR relaxation time data (T1 and T2). 337-339 Recently, interesting work on MCM-41 has been published, 340 in which the effect of pore size on the freezing−melting transition of water confined in porous materials has been investigated using 1H NMR. In this work, 1H NMR intensity vs temperature data of water confined in MCM-41 materials with different pore sizes were obtained. Thus, by comparing the NMR, with N2 adsorption and HRTEM results, a correlation between freezing point depression of frozen pore water, ΔT, and the pore radius (Rp) was established, with this shown to have the following form:  ΔT = Kf/(Rp − tf); where tf and Kf are constants. The authors tentatively proposed the tf factor to be identical to the thickness of a nonfreezing pore surface water. This method thus allows the determination of pore size distribution in materials with pore diameters larger than 1.0 nm, from 1H NMR intensity vs temperature measurements of water-saturated porous materials. There is no doubt that this is a valuable method for the people working on catalysis and adsorption who need to know the effective pore diameter of the solids.
In the case of MCM-41 materials, the self-diffusion coefficient of water was derived 341 from NMR spin−echo experiments using the Carr−Purcell−Meiboom−Gill pulse sequence 342 and a model proposed by Doussal and Sen. 343 It has to be pointed out that the found diffusion coefficients (D) are somewhat surprisingly, of the same order as the value for the diffusion of water in ferrierite determined by molecular dynamics 344 (0.8 × 10-6 cm2 s-1). The authors explain the rather small diffusion coefficient, relative to bulk water (2 × 10-5 cm2 s-1), by a strong interaction of water molecules with the pore surface. This, however, would be in contradiction with the small interaction with the walls observed (recall the hydrophobic nature of the MCM-41) during adsorption experiments.
It has to be noted that most of the NMR work has been performed to determine the state of Si and Al in the walls of the M41S materials, with some incursion into the mechanism of formation.236 We have already described in a previous section how 27Al MAS NMR was used as a technique to follow the incorporation of aluminum in the walls of the M41S materials. In this sense, the first studies231,268 of the Bloch decay (BD) and cross polarization (CP) 29Si NMR spectra of two MCM-41 samples with relatively low (28) and high (189) SiO2/Al2O3 ratios indicated (Figure 32) that while in the first sample some Si (2Si, 2Al) and Si (3Si, 1Al) sites were present, in the high-silica MCM-41 material practically all sites correspond to Si(4Si) with very little Si (3Si, 1Al). When the sample containing more Al was calcined, a substantial intensity loss of the Si (2Si, 2Al) and Si (3Si, 1Al) occurred, while octahedral aluminum appeared (Figure 32); these results could be explained by assuming that upon calcination “dealumination” occurs. Similar results were obtained in B-MCM-41. 345 It is important to bear in mind these results when considering using these materials for acid-catalyzed reactions, in which the Brønsted acidity should be associated to the presence of tetrahedral aluminum.
Figure 32 (a) Bloch Decay (BD) and cross polarization (CP) 29Si MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. The CP spectra were recorded with the optimum contact times. (b) BD and CP 27Al MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. Note the different intensity scaling factors for the BD spectra of the uncalcined samples. Asteriks denote spinning side bands.
The acidity of Al-containing MCM-41 samples has been measured by adsorption−desorption of bases such as pyridine and NH3.231,269 The calcined silicoaluminate samples have both Brønsted and Lewis acidity as determined by pyridine adsorption269 (Figure 33), and the amount of Brønsted acidity increases with the aluminum content of the sample.269 When the acidity of silicoaluminate MCM-41 was compared with that of a USY and an amorphous silica-alumina, it was found (Figure 34) that the acid strength of the MCM-41 is weaker than in the zeolite and appears more similar to that of an amorphous silica-alumina.269 From these results, we can conclude that the MCM-41 silicoaluminate corresponds closely, from the point of view of its acidity, to amorphous silica-alumina with regular pores.
Figure 33 IR spectra of MCM-41 samples (a) hydroxyl range, (b and c) pyridine adsorbed on high Al content, S1 (b), and low Al content, S2 (c) samples and desorbed in vacuum at different temperatures:  (1) 423 K; (2) 523 K; (3) 623 K.
Figure 34 TPD NH3 spectra of USY (1), calcined S1 sample (2), and amorphous silica alumina (3).
In the case of the transition metal-substituted M41S samples, their principal interest resides in their potential use as oxidation catalysts, with this particularly true for the Ti- and V-substituted MCM-41 materials.269,289 In these two cases, the isomorphous substitution and, therefore, the incorporation of these elements in the framework is not easy to ascertain, and hence, a combination of several techniques is required to provide the necessary information. In the case of Ti-substituted MCM-41, spectroscopic and catalytic techniques should be used to show the incorporation of Ti in the silica framework. Previous work on the characterization of Ti-zeolites 346,347 can be used as a guide for characterizing the Ti-MCM-41 samples. Thus, an IR absorption band at ∼960 cm-1 attributed to Si−O−Ti stretching with Ti in tetrahedral coordination 348 was used to identify the incorporation of Ti in zeolites and, similarly, has also been used to show the presence of Ti in the framework of Ti-MCM-41. However, this has been questioned280 on the basis of more recent IR studies on as-made and calcined Ti-β-zeolite, the authors of which have concluded that the band at ∼960 cm-1 can instead be due to the Si−O stretching vibration in the Si−OR group, R being H+ in the calcined state and TEA+ in the as made material. Thus, we have to say that while all the properly prepared Ti-zeolites and Ti-MCM-41 show the presence of this band, the reverse is not neccesarily true.280
Raman spectroscopy, while having the limitation of its relatively high detection limit (0.5 wt %), has the advantage that it can visualize if some or all of the Ti has or has not been incorporated and whether indeed some is segregated as TiO2 anatase (140 cm-1). On the other hand, UV−vis spectroscopy gives very valuable information on the coordination of the Ti. A sample containing only framework titanium should give an optical transition at ∼210 nm, which is assigned to a charge transfer (CT) in [TiO4] and [O3Ti-OH] moieties. 349 Isolated extraframework hexacoordinated Ti would give a CT at about 225 nm.349 Partially polymerized hexacoordinated Ti species, which contain Ti−O−Ti bonds and belong to a silicon-rich amorphous phase, would give a broad band at ∼270 nm. 350 Finally, for TiO2 in the form of anatase the transition occurs in the ∼330 nm region. We see then that UV−vis spectroscopy, which is a widely available technique, is a very useful tool for characterizing Ti-MCM-41 samples since, besides its low detection limit (0.03 wt %), it can give information on framework and extraframework Ti.
The definitive proof in favor of the tetrahedral coordination of Ti in MCM-41 came from the application of X-ray absorption spectroscopy (EXAFS/XANES). When this technique was applied to TS-1 and Ti-β-zeolites,347,351,352 it was found that in anhydrous samples titanium is tetrahedrally coordinated, and the first coordination shell of titanium consists of oxygen atoms only. In hydrated samples penta- and hexacoordinated species are present, corresponding in this case to a titanium atom coordinated with four oxygens from the framework and two molecules of water.
We have carried out recently an EXAFS-XANES study of well-prepared Ti-MCM-41,347 and the XANES spectra of a calcined Ti-MCM-41 sample (1.7 TiO2 wt %), and calcined and subsequently rehydrated is shown in Figure 35. We note that the XANES region of the X-ray absorption spectrum is sensitive both to the oxidation state of the absorbancy atom (in this case Ti) as well as to its local coordination geometry. A clear change in the preedge feature is observed after dehydration, indicating a modification in the site symmetry of Ti atoms (see the characteristics of the prepeaks in Table 11). The prepeak intensity in the calcined material suggests a distorted octahedral environment for Ti. The energy position and intensity of the preedge suggest mainly octahedral coordination for Ti, as observed for Ti-zeolites when exposed to the atmosphere. However, when Ti-MCM-41 was dehydrated a sharper and more intense prepeak at lower energy is observed in the XANES spectrum, indicating a decrease in the coordination of Ti toward tetrahedral coordination, feature which has also been previously observed in TS-1 and Ti-β.
Figure 35 Ti K-edge XANES spectra of Ti-MCM-41 sample:  (a) calcined and (b) calcined and dehydrated.
Table 11. Ti Preedge Peak Parameters for Ti-MCM-41 Sample
compound peak positiona (±0.2 eV) A1/A2/A3 intensity (height) ± 5% FWHMb (± 0.2 eV)
calcined 4.2 0.33 2.0
calcined dehydrated 3.8 0.77 1.2
a Relative to the first inflection point for Ti metal.b The full width at half maximum.
To obtain further insight into the coordination of Ti, the analysis of the EXAFS data of the Ti-MCM-41 sample after calcination and dehydration was carried out (Figure 36), and the coordination number and the Ti−O distance for the calcined and dehydrated samples are given in Table 12. From these, it can be concluded that when the sample is dehydrated, Ti becomes tetrahedrally coordinated.
Figure 36 Fourier transform magnitude of the K3-weighted EXAFS signals of anatase (solid line) and calcined, dehydrated Ti-MCM-41 sample 2 (dashed line).
Table 12. EXAFS Simulation Parameter for the First Shell of Calcined Dehydrated Sample
neighbor N (± 0.5) R (Å) Δσ2 (Å2) ΔE0 (eV) fit value
oxygen 4.3 1.81 ± 0.02 4 × 10-4 0.8 5 × 10-3
The observations from EXAFS-XANES complement the IR and UV−vis spectroscopic results (Figures 37 and 38). Indeed the sample showed a band at about 960 cm-1 in the IR spectra, this band disappears, and the material becomes yellow when adding H2O2. The initial conditions are restored by heating the sample at 353 K overnight. The diffuse reflectance spectra in the UV−vis region of the calcined Ti-MCM-41, does not show the ∼330 nm band associated to anatase, but a band at 210−230 nm associated to isolated Ti in tetrahedral (∼210 nm) and hexacoordination (∼230 nm). Then we can certainly conclude that in well-prepared Ti-MCM-41 samples, isolated TiIV and TiVI species are present, and therefore the incorporation of Ti to the framework of the walls occurs. This fact opened the possibility of using these materials as catalysts for the selective oxidation of large molecules.
Figure 37 IR spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
Figure 38 DR-UV spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
In an analogous way to Ti, vanadium was also incorporated in relatively low amounts in the framework of zeolites 353,354 and MCM-41. 289,355 In well-prepared V-MCM-41 samples, 51V NMR and EPR characterization show that V is, at least in part, incorporated in the framework and consequently can also play a role in catalysis. However, attention should be paid to the fact that leaching of active vanadium species from the silicate matrix during reaction may occurred depending on the nature of the substrate, the solvent, and the oxidant. 356
Since Ti- and V-substituted mesoporous materials are the best documented and also those already proven to be catalytically active, we have limited our characterization discussion to these two materials only. In the next section we will discuss the catalytic activity of mesoporous materials with long-range crystallinity.
D. Catalytic Properties of Mesoporous Materials with Long-Range Crystallinity
We have seen during this review that mesoporous molecular sieves present very high surface areas with very regular pore size dimensions. These properties alone, even if no catalytically active sites can be generated in the structure, are already of great utility for producing carriers on which catalytically active phases such as heteropolyacids, amines, transition metal complexes, and oxides can be supported. Besides their characteristics as supports, we have seen that it is possible to generate Brønsted acid sites on the surface of the mesoporous structures, which opens new possibilities for producing monofunctional acid as well as acid/metal oxide bifunctional catalysts. If Brønsted acidity is generated, one can immediately think of the posibility of increasing the basicity of the conjugated base by exchanging the protons by alkaline ions. This certainly will introduce mild basicity to these materials, which will be useful for less demanding base-catalyzed reactions. Finally, the possibility of introducing transition metals in the walls will give catalytic redox properties which are of use in selective oxidation as well as for air pollution abatement. The versatility of active sites which can be introduced in these materials clearly extends the catalytic possibilities of the microporous zeolites.356
Thus, in this section, we are going to show the possibilities of these materials as acid, base, and redox catalysts, as well as supports for acid, base, hydrogenation, HDS-HDN, and oxidation functions.
1. Acid Catalysis
The large pores of MCM-41 combined with acidity on the walls were specially conceived to carry out catalytic cracking of large molecules. These materials were thought to represent an extension of zeolites and should allow us to deal with large molecules whose diffusion was strongly impeded in the micropores of zeolites such as for instance USY zeolites. Thus, a cracking catalyst was prepared in which the USY zeolite was substituted by Al-MCM-41 (35 wt %) in a silica-alumina-kaolin clay matrix, and the results indicated a higher selectivity of the MCM-41-containing catalyst toward liquid fuels than the one containing the USY zeolite. 357 In the general literature, polyethylene, 358n-heptane, and a vacuum gas oil, 359 have been cracked on Al-MCM-41, amorphous silica-alumina, and USY zeolite, in a microactivity test (MAT) unit. It has been found that with a small reactant (n-heptane), which can easily diffuse inside the pores of the three catalysts (Table 13), the intrinsic activity of the USY zeolite is 139 times larger than MCM-41. This difference in activity is not only due to the larger amount of Brønsted acid sites present on the zeolite, but it is also a consequence of the stronger acid sites present in the zeolite (Table 14). On the other hand, when the large reactant molecules present in the gas oil were cracked, we can see that the activity of MCM-41 approached that of the USY zeolite and is higher than that of amorphous silica-alumina (Table 15).
Table 13. First-Order Kinetic Rate Constants for n-Heptane Cracking
sample first-order kinetic rate (h-1)a K Al(Al + Si)
MCM-41.1 0.6211 8.873
amorphous Si-Al 3.20 35.56
USY1 12.37 1237
a Calculated from plot stop of −ln (1 − x) vs WHSV-1.
Table 14. IR Intensity of the Pyridinium Bands and Pyridine Coordinate to Lewis Site on the Different Catalyst Samples
  desorption temperature (K)
  423 523 623
Brønsted Acidity
MCM-41.1 12 6 3
MCM-41.2 1.5 0.6 0.3
MCM-41.3 n.d. n.d. n.d.
ASA 12 6 3
USY1   21 9
Lewis Acidity
MCM-41.1 47 34 24
MCM-41.2 3.1 2.3 1.5
MCM-41.3 2.3 1.5 1.5
ASA 37 23 2
USY1   11 8
Table 15. First-Order Kinetic Rate Constants for Gas Oil Cracking
sample first-order kinetic rate (K)a K Al(Al + Si)
MCM-41.1 2.04 29.14
ASA 1.71 19.00
USY1 3.22 322
a Calculated from a first-order rate expression ln (1 - x) at cat/oil ratio of 4.
Table 16. BET Surface Area (m2 g-1) of the Samples
Si/Al calcined steamed
MCM-41.1ST 14 837 81
MCM-41.2ST 100 1031 84
MCM-41.3ST 143 877 347
ASA.ST 100 551 116
USY1.ST 2.5 268 213
Table 17. Residue Upgrading Process with Decreasing MCM-41 Pore Size
  1st stage 2nd stage 3rd stage
MCM-41 pore size      
maximum catalytic activity • demetalization • demetalization • desulfurization
  • asphaltene conversion • asphaltene conversion • CCR reduction
Comparing gas oil cracking selectivity results (Figure 39), it was seen that MCM-41 produces more liquid fuels and less gases and coke than amorphous silica-alumina. When compared with USY zeolite, MCM-41 is more selective toward diesel formation and gives less gasoline and more coke. These results would suggest that if not present as the main active cracking component of the FCC catalyst, MCM-41 could probably be used as an active component of the matrix. Indeed, mesoporous silica-aluminas are active for performing a precracking of the largest feed molecules, facilitating the ulterior action of the USY zeolite. 360 A clever use of the MCM-41 in this respect was reported by Schipper et al. 361 who prepared a cracking catalyst comprising a core of a zeolite (USY, ZSM-5) and a shell of MCM-41.
Figure 39 Selectivity to different products vs total conversion for cracking of gas oil for MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
However, if one takes into account that in a FCC unit the catalyst is subjected in the regenerator to temperatures close to 800 °C in the presence of steam, it is easy to understand that for FCC cracking catalysts more important than the initial activity is the hydrothemal stability of the catalysts. It is for this reason that work reporting only on the cracking activity of fresh catalysts becomes limited. 362-364
To find if a given cracking catalyst is suited to resist at a reasonable level, the hydrothermal deactivation in the regenerator of the FCC unit, this is calcined at 750 or 815 °C in the presence of 15 psig of steam. When the MCM-41, amorphous silica-alumina and the USY zeolite discussed before were steamed at 750 °C, their surface area decreases, this effect being much larger in the case of the MCM-41 samples (Table 16). The observed decrease in MCM-41 indicates two things:  First of all that the samples are not stable enough to resist the inferno of the regenerator, and secondly, that the MCM-41 sample containing the lowest Al content is the most stable one. Unfortunately, if MCM-41 is more hydrothermally stable when it contains less Al, it will contain, as a result, a lower number of acid sites when the Si/Al increases and consequently, its catalytic activity decreases. Nevertheless, the gas oil cracking activity of the steamed samples was measured (Figure 40) and the results show that MCM-41 is much less active than either USY or amorphous silica-alumina.359 Similar results on the hydrothermal stability of MCM-48 have also been found. 365
At this point, it becomes clear that even though the characteristics of MCM-41 for cracking vacuum gas oil and straight run naphtha 366 are good, unless more hydrothermally stable samples are prepared the possibilities of using MCM-41 in the actual crackers themselves will be limited. Thus, due to its practical importance the stability of MCM-41 has been studied in a number of publications. 367-371
The most fruitful direction for increasing the stability of these solids consist of increasing the diameter of the walls. In this way pore diameters up to 2.0 nm have been claimed, and the resultant samples show very good thermal stability.370,371 Unfortunately, the hydrothermal stability of the resultant samples was not checked. It appears to us that an increase in hydrothermal stability will be achieved if MCM-41 samples, with more ordered walls, are synthesized. The ideal will be to synthesize MCM-41 with crystalline walls, since if this were achieved the madelung energy will increase the hydrothermal stability of the crystalline samples.
Meanwhile, one can look into refinery processes which require a catalyst with mild acidity and are less demanding from the point of view of the hydrothermal stability. In this sense, processes such as hydroisomerization, hydrocracking and demetalization, and olefin oligomerization appear as good candidates.
Resids or shale oils can be upgraded by using a catalyst comprising MCM-41 and nickel and molybdenum, 372 with the peculiarity that the mesoporous MCM-41 is used in decreasing pore sizes from the top to the bottom of the reactor 373 (Table 17).
A recent development consists of perfoming hydrocracking in reactors commonly used for carrying out hydrodesulfurization of the feed and which works at pressure below 100 bars. By working under these conditions one can perform some hydrocracking of the feed, increasing therefore the amount of diesel produced while achieving the desired HDS of the feed. This process is called mild hydrocracking (MHC) and requires as a carrier a mildly acidic support on which NiO and Mo2O3 are incorporated. Typical catalysts used in MHC include acidic carriers such as halogen-doped alumina, silica-alumina, or zeolites, which allow conversion of heavy hydrocarbons via carbenium ion cracking. The zeolite-containing catalysts are now used extensively in MHC. The amorphous-based hydrocracking catalysts are more sensitive to deactivation by coking and by organic nitrogen compounds and ammonia, formed in the hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) reactions, than zeolite-based catalysts. 374 However, because of their very high cracking activity, zeolite-based hydrocracking catalysts show a higher selectivity to LPG, gasoline, and lower to middle distillates than the amorphous systems. 375 Moreover, an important aspect of hydrocracking catalysts which takes on special relevance when processing heavy feedstocks is the distribution of the metals on its surface, and their proximity to the acid sites where cracking will occur. This is a serious problem for zeolite-based hydrocracking catalysts, even if a large pore Y-type zeolite with enhanced mesoporosity is used. Taking all this into account, MCM-41 appears as a well-suited carrier for this process since it has high surface area for achieving good dispersion of the transition metal oxides, and at the same time the aluminum form of the mesoporous material presents mild acidity. 376,377
Figure 40 Activity for cracking of gas oil for steamed MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
In a recent work,377 the MHC performance of a NiMo/MCM-41 catalysts was compared with that of amorphous silica-alumina and an ultrastable low unit cell size Y zeolite (USY) having the same Ni and Mo contents (Table 18). From the point of view of the acidity of the carrier, USY zeolite showed the highest amount of Brønsted acidity, most of the sites having medium-strong acid strength. The acidity of MCM-41 was similar to that of amorphous silica-alumina, both in number and acid strength distribution. Moreover, most of the Brønsted acid sites in the two mesoporous silica-alumina carriers are of weak-medium strength, as is required for producing diesel in MHC operation. However, it should be taken into account that the acid characteristics of the support are modified when supporting the metals, and in this particular case, the Mo strongly interacts with the acid sites, making the strongest acid sites disappear from MCM-41 and amorphous silica-alumina samples.377 A vacuum gas oil containing 2.53 wt % of sulfur and 2900 ppm of N2 was hydrotreated on the above bifunctional catalysts and their performance for hydrodesulfurization (HDS), hydrodenitrification (HDN), and hydrocracking are given in Figure 41a−c.
Figure 41 (a) Hydrodesulfurization (HDS) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature for (·) NiMo/MCM-41, (▴) NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3, (▪) NiMo/USY catalysts. (b) Hydrocracking (MHC) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature. Same symbols as in a. (c) Hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) conversion of feed A obtained at 400 °C reaction temperature on the different supported catalysts.
Table 18. Textural Properties of Unsupported and NiMo-Supported Catalysts
  BET surface area (m2 g-1) pore volume (cm3 g-1)
sample micropore total nicropore total APDa (nm)
MCM-41 0 648 0 0.54 3.3
NiMo/MCM-41 0 519 0 0.60 4.6
SiO2-Al2O3 21 268 0.01 0.31 4.6
NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3 15 171 <0.01 0.29 6.8
USY 362 551b 0.18 0.41 2.1
NiMo/USY 179 283 0.09 0.29 2.9
a Average pore diameter.b The PQ data specifies a surface area of 720 m2 g-1.
The results show that the MCM-41-based catalyst gives better performance from the point of view of HDS, HDN, and hydrocracking conversion. This is probably due to the very high surface area and regular pore dimensions of the MCM-41 aluminosilicate, which favors a high dispersion of the active species while increasing the accessibility of the large molecules of the gas oil feed containing heteroatoms to the catalyst active sites. In the case of the MHC, as important as the total conversion is to obtain a good selectivity to middle distillates. The product distribution obtained is given in Table 19 and shows that the NiMo/MCM-41 catalyst produces the lowest amount of gases and consequently the highest to liquid fuels, with diesel production also being maximized. Since the acidities are very similar on the two mesoporous catalysts, the differences in selectivities were related to the regularity, size, and dimensionality of the pores present in MCM-41.377 When the hydrocracking catalysts were used in a hypothetical two-stage operation, using a pretreated feed with lower sulfur and nitrogen contents and with the boiling range of the feed shifted to lower boiling point products, the USY-based catalyst shows its superior hydrocracking activity, while MCM-41 is more selective toward middle distillates than the zeolite and similar to amorphous silica-alumina.
Table 19. Product Distribution Obtained in the Mild Hydrocracking of Vacuum Gas Oil (Feed A) at About 50 wt % Hydrocracking Conversion to Products Boiling Below 360 °C on the Different NiMo Catalysts
  distribution of products boiling below 360 °C (wt %)
catalyst C1−C4 naphthaa middle distillatesb
NiMo/MCM-41 16.2 25.8 58.0
NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3 18.9 23.1 57.9
NiMo/USY 19.7 27.3 52.0
a Naphtha:  C5 to 195 °C bp.b Middle distillates:  195−360 °C bp.
It appears, then, that NiMo/MCM-41-type materials may be used in the next generation of MHC catalysts. In this respect it would be worth studying the influence of the pore size of the mesoporous material on the final hydrocracking behavior. This could be relevant, if one takes into account that the reaction network involves a series of consecutive reactions. Therefore, the relative rates for formation of diesel, kerosene, naphtha, and gases should be quite sensitive to the existence of diffusional problems and, consequently, to the diameter of the pores.
When deep hydrocracking is desired and the highest possible activity together with the highest possible middle distillate selectivity are to be achieved, then the process is carried out at pressures above 100 bars and temperature range of 230−450 °C, on catalysts comprising as the support silica-alumina dispersed in an alumina matrix, or silica-alumina and zeolite within an alumina matrix. As the hydrogenation−dehydrogenation component, a group VII metal and a group VIB metal are introduced. A hydrocracking process has been developed using mesoporous MCM-41. 378-380 In this case hydrotreated vacuum gas oil feed was hydrocracked on a three-component catalyst:  NiW, MCM-41, and USY/ZSM-5. The metal components of the catalyst are preferably associated with the high-surface area mesoporous component and high metal loadings can be achieved in order to give good hydrogenation activity to the catalyst. The zeolite (USY or ZSM-5) provides a higher level of acidic functionality than the mesoporous component, allowing metal loadings and acidic activities to be optimized for good catalyst selectivity and activity. The catalyst that include MCM-41 instead of amorphous silica-alumina allows similar distillate selectivity but with an improved conversion activity.
The acid form of Al-MCM-41 together with nickel and tungsten can also be used to hydrocrack heavy waxes. 381 The selectivity of this catalyst toward lube oils is higher than that of fluorinated NiW/Al2O3, specially at levels of conversion above 50%.
The mild acidity of Al-MCM-41 can also be useful for isomerizing normal paraffins into isoparaffins on bifunctional Pt/MCM-41 catalysts. 382,383 In the case of a bifunctional mechanism the generalized steps are outlined in the following scheme:
The first reaction step occurs on the metal function and corresponds to the dehydrogenation of the paraffin yielding the corresponding olefin. The high reactivity of olefins toward acid catalysts allows the mildly acidic MCM-41 to isomerize the normal olefin to the isoolefin, which is finally hydrogenated on the metal function and desorbed as an isoparaffin. In comparison to Pt-silica-alumina catalysts the Pt/MCM-41 produced less cracked products, probably due to its effectively greater Pt dispersion.
A combination of hydrocracking plus hydroisomerization in a two-step process based on a MCM-41 catalyst is able to convert wax feeds to high viscosity index lubricants. 384 In the first step the wax feed is hydrocracked under mild conditions (70 bar), with a conversion to nonlube range products lower than 40% of the feed, on an acidic mesoporous MCM-41 based catalyst. The effluent of the first stage is hydroisomerized in a second step using a low acidity hydroisomerization Pt/MCM-41 catalyst to produce less waxy branched paraffins.
Since olefins can easily be activated by solid catalysts containing mild acid sites, H-MCM-41 has been used for upgrading olefins in several different processes. 385 In one of these routes, C3, C4, or C5 olefins are oligomerized to C6−C18+ hydrocarbons which are then recycled and cracked in a multistage process to form C3−C5 range olefins.
Olefins can also be disproportionated on H-MCM-41 to produce isobutylene and isoamylenes that are reactants for the production of MTBE and TAME.366
Production of fuel and lubricants can also be obtained by direct oligomerization of olefins 386-390 on metal-containing MCM-41. Cr, Ni, and Fe are suitable metals to carry out the oligomerization of ethylene and propylene. In general, it can be said that the catalytic activity of mesoporous materials was lower than MFI-metallosilicates, 391 particularly when the purpose is to produce oligomeric gasoline. However it has been shown391 that a considerable amount of oligomers is produced from propene at low temperatures on MCM-41-type catalysts, and in this case the pore size of the mesoporous material can make a difference when the objective is to oligomerize larger olefins, or in general, to produce large lubricant molecules. As an example the oligomerization of propylene on different acid catalysts is given in Figure 42.390
Figure 42 Propylene oligomerization on different acid catalysts.
When discussing the advantages of mesoporous materials for acid-catalyzed reactions, the benefit of the large regular pores better allowing the diffusion of the reactants and conversely the fast diffusion of the products out, minimizing unwanted consecutive reactions and catalyst decay by the large sizes of the adsorbed molecules, is a recurring theme. If this feature was useful in the field of oil refining and petrochemistry, it becomes of paramount importance when dealing with the synthesis of fine chemicals. Indeed, these reactions, often involve bulky reactants and products, and in many cases they are carried out in liquid phase where diffusional problems can be enhanced. It is not then surprising that acidic mesoporous materials have enjoyed considerable success in the field of organic synthesis, even though the applications are still in their infancy. Up to now most of the work published in the application of acidic MCM-41 materials for the production of fine chemicals comes principally from two research groups from Delft and Valencia Universities. Friedel−Crafts alkylations and acylations are successfully carried out on aluminosilicate MCM-41. 392-398 The shape selectivity of the H-MCM-41 was demonstrated during the alkylation of 2,4-di-tert-butylphenol with cinnamyl alcohol. Even though a large-pore HY zeolite has adequate acidity to carry out this reaction, only very minor amounts of the Friedel−Crafts product 3 were observed, while this was the major product on MCM-41 (Table 20).392
An explanation for this is the possibility that dihydrobenzopyran (3) would be produced via the intermolecular ring closure of the primary cinnamylphenol (2), arising from the Friedel−Crafts alkylation of phenol (1). On the other hand, compounds 4 and 5 would be formed by acid-catalyzed dealkylation, a process which is generally observed in tert-butyl substituted aromatics and has been reported to occur on zeolites. 399-401 Thus, owing to the diffusional problems of the reactant 1 through the windows of the zeolite, benzopyran (3) will only be formed on the surface of the faujasite, while it will easily diffuse and react in the pores of MCM-41. Analogous pore size effects were observed during the tert-butylation of anthracene, naphthalene, and tianthrene.394
Table 20. Results of the Reaction of 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol (206 mg) with Equimolar Amounts of Cynnamyl Alcohol (134 mg) in Isooctane (50 mL) at 90 °C in the Presence of Solid Catalyst (250 mg) or Sulfuric Acid (20 mg)
  products, yield (%)
catalyst 1 3 4 others
HY 89 <1 5 −
HYM 75 9 − 12a
MCM-41 20 35 25 5(6)
Si/Al 56 6 − −
H2SO4 73 12 9 3b
a Dicinnamyl ethers plus diphenylpentadienes.b Tri-tert-butylphenol.
Acylation reactions are of general use in the production of fine chemicals. In most processes AlCl3 is still used in stoichiometric amounts to “catalyze” this type of reactions. Very recently, the economic as well as waste disposal problems associated with the use of AlCl3 are trying to be overcome through the use of easy separable and regenerable solid catalysts. In this sense researchers from Rhône-Poulenc have claimed the use of acid zeolites for the Friedel−Crafts acylation of aromatics, 402 and some of the results have now been commercialized. The work of Spagnol et al., however, certainly opens up the possibility of exploring MCM-41 for carrying out acylation reactions of more bulky reactants.
The synthesis of aromatic ketones is an important process in the preparation of synthetic fragrances and pharmaceuticals which involves an aromatics acylation step. More specifically in this area, work has been reported396 on the acylation of 2-methoxynaphthalene with acetic anhydride, with the aim of achieving the highest acylation at the 6 position which is of particular interest for the production of the anti-inflamatory drug Naproxen.
In this respect, H-MCM-41 was found to be an active catalyst giving at 132 °C in chlorobenzene, turnover numbers of 20, 17, and 11 when using acetic, benzoic, and isobutyric anhydride, respectively, as acylating agents. With respect to the product distribution it was observed that at moderate temperatures (up to 100 °C) the selectivity to the 1-acylated product was practically 100%. At higher temperatures, the preferential deprotodeacylation of the 1 position, with respect to the 6 or 8 position, leads to a decrease in the selectivity for the 1 position. Nevertheless selectivities to the acylation in the 6 position were always below 10% on the H-MCM-41 catalyst. What is remarkable in this system is that the catalyst can be easily regenerated. It appears then that the mildly acidic H-MCM-41 mesoporous material is a suitable Brønsted acid catalyst for the Friedel−Crafts acylation of 2-methoxynaphthalene using anhydrides as acylating reagents.
This mild acidity combined with the large pores has been especially useful for carrying out reactions such as acetalyzations, 403 Beckman rearrangements, 404 glicosidation, 405 and aldol condensation. 406 The catalytic preparation of acetals is of interest for their use in pharmaceuticals 407,408 and as fragrances in perfumes and detergents. 409 Since the reaction does not need strong acid sites and on the other hand it frequently deals with bulky reactants, H-MCM-41 appeared as a good choice of catalyst. The acetalization of aldehydes with different sizes, i.e. n-heptanal (1), 2-phenylpropanal (2), and diphenylacetaldehyde (3), with trimethylorthoformiate (TOF) was carried out on different acid catalysts going from microporous (β-zeolite) to mesoporous amorphous silica-alumina (Si-Al), and long-range ordered MCM-41 silica-alumina.403 The rates of acetalization obtained on these catalysts are given in Table 21.
Table 21. Influence of the Catalyst Pore Size on the Rate and Conversion in the Acetalization Reaction of 1, 2, and 3
  r0 (mol h-1 g-1) × 103
catalyst 1 2 3
1-MCM-41 2500 2480 2340
2-βH     180
Si-Al 1500 1600 460
It can be seen once again in this case that when working with reactants of smaller size, the zeolite is the most active catalyst. However when the size of the aldehyde increases, the diffusional restrictions imposed by the zeolite pores strongly decrease the observed rate of reaction, while in the case of the MCM-41 catalyst the ratio remains very close, regardless of the size of the reactant aldehyde. This makes the ordered mesoporous acid catalyst a very convenient one for carrying out, acetalization reactions, especially when bulky reactants and products are involved. If the catalytic activity is important for these reactions, it is also very important to avoid, or at least to slow down, the deactivation of the catalyst during the process. The acetalization of the bulkiest diphenylacetaldehyde is a very nice example of the importance of the fast diffusion of the products to slow down the catalyst deactivation. Indeed, the results presented in Figure 43 indicate that while the initial rate of acetalyzation is larger on HY zeolite this becomes rapidly poisoned due to the products which are not able to diffuse outside building up in the α cavities resulting in conversions no greater than 60%. On the contrary, in the case of the MCM-41 catalyst even though the initial rate is slightly lower, the catalysts decay is slower than in the case of HY zeolite, and consequently practically 100% conversion is achieved within three hours of reaction time.
Figure 43 Synthesis of dimethyl acetals on HY and MCM-41 acid catalysts.
The Beckman rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxide has been carried out on medium and large pore zeolites, 410-414 and it has been concluded that weak acid sites, as weak as silanols, can carry out the reaction.412 Then MCM-41 with its low acidity can also catalyze a reaction of this type404 but the yields and selectivity are lower than those obtained with zeolites.
It is remarkable, taking into account the general properties of mesoporous materials, how little work was undertaken in applying acidic mesoporous molecular sieves to the preparation of fine chemicals. We are convinced that in the next few years, when more information on these materials will be available to organic chemists, the number of applications of MCM-41 type materials in organic synthesis will strongly increase. This review is aimed, in part, to show the readers who are nonspecialized in materials preparation but who are potential users of MCM-41 derivatives that they are relatively easy to make and their potential, at least in catalysts, is still largely unexplored.
2. Base Catalysis
It was previously reported that microporous aluminosilicates can be used as base catalysts when the negative charge on the aluminum was compensated by alkaline ions. 415,416 Furthermore the smaller the charge to radius ratio of the compensating cation is, the stronger the basicity of the associated framework oxygen is.415,416 In an analogous way to that of zeolites, the negative charge of the tetrahedrally coordinated aluminum atom in MCM-41 was compensated by Na+ and Cs+ and the resultant samples were active and selective for carrying out the base- catalyzed Knoevenagel condensation of benzaldehyde with ethyl cyanoacetate: 417
As expected, the H-MCM-41 was not able to catalyze the reaction, while the Na+-exchanged sample could perform the reaction. The Cs+-exchanged sample was more basic and therefore, it was more active than the Na+-exchanged sample (Table 22).
Table 22. Knoevenagel Condensation of Benzaldehyde and Ethyl Cyanoacetate with Different MCM-41 Catalysts
catalyst amount (% m/m) t (h) conversion (% m/m) selectivity (%) Aalk (mol h-1 mol-1alk.met.) Awt  (mmol h-1 g-1)c
Na-MCM-41a 5 7 81 75 2.3 11.8
Na-MCM-41b 5 3 72 99 4.7 15.5
HNa-MCM-41b 5 3 61 95 24.9 14.1
Cs-MCM-41Aa 1.6 7 67 60 5.3 12.9
Cs-MCM-41Ab 5 3 72 98 7.5 18.4
a Solvent free at 150 °C, 20 mmol of ethyl cyanoacetate and 26 mmol of benzaldehyde.b THF-H2O at 70 °C, 15 mL of each and 10 mmol of each reactant.c Specific activity at t.
When the Na-MCM-41 sample was tested on a more demanding reaction such as the condensation of benzaldehyde with diethyl malonate, it was found that the reaction occurs, but at a much smaller rate. For instance, only 6% conversion was observed after 3 h at 150 °C. When an excess of alkaline with respect to the exchange capacity is introduced, Na2O and Cs2O particles can be formed and then the resultant catalysts show a stronger basicity than caesium- and sodium-exchanged MCM-41.
In our opinion alkaline-exchanged MCM-41, especially those with a high AlIV content, can extend the possibilities of alkaline exchanged zeolites toward reactions catalyzed by weak bases and involving large size reactant molecules. On the other hand, the very large surface area of Al-MCM-41 can be an adequate support to generate, after impregnation with cesium salts followed by calcination in an inert atmosphere, a high amount of small Cs2O particles, which will be able to perform reactions demanding strong basicities.
3. Redox Catalysis
After the seminal work on the selective oxidation of paraffins, olefins, and alcohols on Ti-silicalite 418-420 and its extension to a large pore Ti-β-zeolite, 421-423 the door was opened to introduce active Ti in the walls of MCM-41. The first report on the successful preparation of Ti-MCM-41 was published in early 1994,282 and the resultant material was able to epoxidize selectively olefins to epoxides using H2O2 as the oxidizing agent (Table 23).
Table 23. Catalytic Oxidation of Hex-1-ene with H2O2 on Ti-MCM-41 Zeolite
      selectivity (% molar)
t (h) conversion (H2O2) selectivity (H2O2) epoxide glycol ether
0.50 3.9 60 100    
2.00 23.4 70 95.7 1.7 2.6
3.50 28.9 70 94.4 1.6 4.0
5.00 39.9 75 91.2 3.1 5.7
The activity of Ti-MCM-41 to epoxidize small linear olefins with H2O2 was lower than when using Ti-silicalite and Ti-β-zeolite catalysts, indicating that the intrinsic activity of Ti in the MCM-41 was lower than in ZSM-5 and β-zeolites, at least under the reaction conditions used. However the advantages of Ti-MCM-41 as epoxidation catalyst was in its ability to oxidize large molecules which cannot diffuse in the pores of microporous materials, as well as to use organic hydroperoxides as oxidants. 282,424 For instance Ti-MCM-41 was found to be much more active than Ti-β-zeolite to oxidize α-terpineol and norbornene at 70 °C using tert-butyl hydroperoxide as oxidant (Table 24).
Table 24. Oxidation of α-Terpineol and Norbornene on Ti-Containing Materials
          norbornene
    α-terpineol   epoxides
catalyst sample reaction time (h) product 3 others reaction time (h) exo endo alcohol
Ti-MCM-41 3 23.8 4.02 5 21.7 4.7 3.1
  8 31.5 8.6 11 30.0 12.3 6.4
Ti-Beta 3 4.1 2.5 5 4.7 5.6 6.6
  8 7.6 5.8 11 11.2 7.1 12.8
Two months later, another paper on the synthesis of a mesoporous Ti-containing material called Ti-HMS appeared,283 showing a surprisingly high catalytic activity for the hydroxylation of benzene to phenol using acetone as the solvent. However, it was shown later 425 that the phenol yields were overestimated, due to the fact that the competitive oxidation of the acetone was not taken into account and the products formed were not separated chromatographically from phenol. When the reaction was carried out properly it was shown that Ti-HMS has very low activity for the hydroxylation of phenol, and in any case much lower than Ti-MCM-41.425 Other papers have expounded on the subject. 426-428 Recently it has been proposed that Ti-HMS prepared with a neutral surfactant (S°I°) exhibits greater catalytic activity for the liquid-phase peroxide oxidations of methyl methacrylate, styrene, and 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol than Ti-MCM-41 assembled by electrostatic S+I+ and S+X-I+ pathways. The difference in activity is larger when bulkier reactants are used. This difference in activity cannot be related to differences in the intrinsic activity of Ti, since this is in the same environment in the walls of the structure (see earlier discussion) and thus has been related to the greater interparticle mesoporosity observed in Ti-HMS which should facilitate substrate transport and access to the framework confined mesopores.286
Amines have also been oxidized on Ti-MCM-41 and Ti-HMS mesoporous materials. 429,430 The products formed are of interest in several fields including chemical and pharmaceutical industries. 431,432 While Ti-MCM-41 has little activity to convert primary aliphatic amines into the corresponding hydroxylamine, the mesoporous Ti-HMS is active for the oxidation of arylamines in the liquid phase. The success observed from using the mesoporous material was again related to the larger pores and the possibility of using organic peroxides as oxidants. On a similar basis, Ti-MCM-41 is able to oxidize bulky sulfides to the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones, better than the large pore Ti-β-zeolite. 433 Indeed, the results show that while Ti-β-zeolite is more active in reaction 1, the order of reactivity is reversed when a bulkier sulfide is involved (reaction 2).
Up to now most of the work on Ti-M41S mesoporous molecular sieves has been carried out on the MCM-41 structure and very few on Ti-MCM-48. 287,434 In those cases a Ti-containing mesoporous material isomorphous to the cubic MCM-48, silicate structure has been synthesized by using surfactants. It was claimed that since the unit cell has been enlarged and UV−vis, IR, and Raman characterization showed that titanium was well dispersed, the guest metal should probably be located in the wall of the mesoporous structure substituting for part of the silicon. However, when one looks closer at the synthesis procedure reported, it can be seen that the high pH synthesis (pH = 11) is achieved by adding NaOH. It is well known in the literature that in order to incorporate Ti in micro- and mesoporous materials in tetrahedral coordination in the final structure, alkalines metal hydroxides should be avoided in the synthesis otherwise alkaline metal titanates will be formed. Thus it may occur that under the reported synthesis conditions only a small amount of the Ti should be in tetrahedral coordination within the walls of the MCM-48. An indication that this may be the case is the fact that the increase in unit cell size in the case of the Ti-containing sample is only of 0.3 Å.287 Taking all this into account it is certainly remarkable that the resultant Ti-MCM-48 is able to selectively oxidize methyl methacrylate and styrene.
Until now we have discussed the new possibilities opened by Ti-M41S mesoporous materials in the field of selective oxidation of bulky reactants using H2O2 and organic hydroperoxides. These possibilities have been expanded by the observation that it is possible to prepare bifunctional acid oxidation catalysts which are able to perform two different reaction steps on the same catalyst. 435 In that work a MCM-41 structure was prepared which contained in the walls both Ti and Al sites. In essence the catalyst now has both the TiIV oxidation sites, in addition the H+ associated to the AlIV as acid sites, which enables us to carry out in one pot and using tert-butyl hydroperoxide, the multistep oxidation of linalool to cyclic furan and pyran hydroxy ethers with 100% selectivity and in ratio of 0.89. This method somewhat resembles the case where epoxidase enzyme is used instead (∼0.7) and is much better than the less friendly conventional process involving performic acid: 436
At this point one can ask why should we use long-range-ordered mesoporous catalysts which require the use of surfactants during the synthesis of Ti-containing silicas if they can be prepared by a sol-gel synthesis and hence no surfactant is required. In trying to answer this question we report here on the comparison of the catalytic characteristics of Ti-containing mesoporous molecular sieves with mesoporous titania-silica aerogels with highly dispersed titanium as prepared by an alkoxide sol-gel process. 437-442 In this case it was found that, at least for lower Ti contents, Ti is tetrahedrally coordinated and is able to epoxidize selectively alkenes using organic hydroperoxides. However unlike Ti-MCM-41 they cannot be used when H2O2 is the oxidant. An optimized preparation involves a sol-gel technique combined with ensuing supercritical drying at near-ambient temperature.438 This treatment produces a high density of the desired Ti−O−Si centers, while producing a good mesoporous texture which allows accessibility to bulky olefins and organic hydroperoxides. A titania content of ∼20 wt % has been found to be the optimum for catalytic purposes.
When this catalyst was compared with an optimized Ti-MCM-41 containing ∼2 wt % of TiO2, it is found that the olefin epoxidation activity per Ti atom is larger on Ti-MCM-41, but since the titania-silica aerogel has a much larger titanium content the conversion achieved on this sample is higher. 443 It can be concluded here that it is well worthwhile to carry out further research in the preparation of titania-silica aerogels by the sol-gel route, since the synthesis procedure is relatively easy and avoids the use of organic templating agents and samples can be prepared with larger amounts of titanium. In particular the three aspects to be improved involve the long-term leaching of titanium (one should take into account that for practical industrial application the minimum usage time is 1000 h), the use of H2O2 as oxidant, and finally the possibility of regenerating the catalyst by a calcination process in the presence of air.
Owing to the success in the incorporation of Ti and its relatively good behavior as a selective oxidation catalyst, other transition metal elements with potential catalytic activity were also intended to be introduced on the walls of the MCM-41. An interesting study of MCM-41 incorporating Ti, Fe, Cr, V, and Mn was reported, 444 and by means of X-ray absorption spectroscopy the authors were able to show the relative tendencies of the different metals to remain in the framework when the material was subjected to calcination. It was found in this respect that Ti was the most stable in the structure, the majority of Fe also remains in the framework, whereas in the case of vanadium and chromium these were found to increase in their oxidation state to +5 and +6, and especially chromium was found to be in highly dispersed oxidic species. These results are of paramount importance in order to discuss what the active species are and where they are located during the catalytic reactions carried out on mesoporous materials containing transition metals. For instance, a vanadium-containing mesoporous catalyst was used for the hydroxylation of 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol (2,6 TBP) into 2,6-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone with high conversion selectivity and efficient H2O2 utilization 445 (Table 25). On the other hand a synthesized V2O5-SiO2 aerogel gives considerable conversion of 2,6-DTBP, but after calcination the activity disappeared, indicating that V2O5 was formed. This adds one important point to our previous discussion on advantages and disadvantages, of metal transition-aerogels as catalysts, since if they have to be regenerated by calcination their catalytic performance may not be regenerated, as has been observed at least for V2O5-SiO2 aerogels.
Table 25. Oxidation of 2,6-Di-tert-butylphenol and Phenol
        product selectivity (%)a
substrate sample no.a conv (%) H2O2 eff (%)b quinone CAT HQ
2,6-DTBPd 4 70 64 92    
2,6-DTBP 4e 95 95f 100    
2,6-DTBP 6g 24 22 92    
2,6-DTBP 6 3 3 100    
2,6-DTBP 7 2 2 100    
2,6-DTBP no catalyst 2 2 100    
2,6-DTBP Ti-HMSh 26 7 54    
2,6-DTBP Ti-HMSi 15 48 93    
phenolj 4k 13.4 69   58 42
phenol 4l 11.7 59   57 43
a All the catalysts were used in the calcined form unless otherwise stated.b H2O2 efficiency = (moles of H2O2 utilized for the formation of quinone/moles of H2O2 added) × 100.c CAT = catechol; HQ = hydroquinone.d Catalyst (0.1 g), 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol (1.03), hydrogen peroxide (30 mass %) (1.7 g), acetone (7.8 g), 335 K, reaction time 2 h.e tert-Butyl hydroperoxide was used as the oxidant.f TBHP efficiency.g As-synthesized catalyst.h Reference 12 (Si:Ti = 100).i Reference 8 (Si:Ti = 100).j Catalyst (0.5 g), phenol (5.0 g) hydrogen peroxide (30 mass %) (2.0 g) solvent (15 g) 353 K, reaction time 15 h.k Solvent water.l Catalyst was regenerated and reused.
In the case of V-mesoporous catalysts, we discussed before the possible leaching of V during the reaction and the homogeneous catalyzed reaction by the dissolved vanadium. This effect has been observed445 during the hydroxylation of 2,6-DTBP, where it was found that after the reaction was completed and the catalysts subsequently filtered, if fresh reactants were added to the filtrate it was able to react again. Furthermore the spent catalyst was calcined and then the catalytic activity disappeared. On the other hand no leaching was observed during hydroxylation of phenol, indicating that the substrate can induce the leaching of vanadium.
Hydroxylation of phenol on Ti, V, Mn, and Cr in MCM-41 and HMS has also been attempted, and it was shown that metal-MCM-41 materials are more active than Metal-HMS, except for the chromium-containing samples where the reverse was true. Unfortunately it was not checked in this paper if leaching of any of the metals had occurred during the reaction.
Tin-substituted mesoporous silica molecular sieves have been synthesized with cationic 446 or neutral surfactants. 447 The former material was used to hydroxylate phenol and 1-naphthol and gave much higher activity and selectivity than MCM-41 impregnated with Sn, indicating that during the synthesis the Sn4+ active centers were probably incorporated in the lattice of the MCM-41 structure.
Biodegradable lactic acid polymers in the form of semicrystalline (poly-l-lactic acid (PLA)), can be prepared by polymerization of the monomer in the presence of tin(II) salts. However, since the homogeneous catalysts remains occluded in the polymer and this is to be used in biochemical fields, it can give potential toxicological problems due to the presence of the transition metal. Thus, tin-substituted mesoporous silica molecular sieve (Sn-HMS), synthesized using a neutral surfactant, has been used as a heterogeneous catalyst for lactide ring-opening polymerization.447 The results obtained from the point of view of conversion and product characteristics (reasonably high molecular mass and low polydispersity) look very promising. In this case it appears that the role played by the ordered mesoporous structure lies in improving the average molecular mass and polydispersity in comparison to homogeneous catalysts, by imposing steric constraints on the propagating PLA chains and minimizing “back biting” and the intermolecular transesterification reaction. This outstanding work opens up new possibilities for carrying out other selective ring-opening reactions.
It is known that large cations such as Zr, Mo, and W are active and selective oxidation catalysts in homogeneous systems. Attempts to heterogenize such catalysts by preparing zeolites containing, for instance, Zr gave poor results. 448,449 This is not surprising taking into account the strains on the crystalline framework when the introduction of a large cation such as Zr is intended. On the other hand, Tuel et al. 450,451 have made use of the amorphous character of the mesoporous ordered silicas which can allow larger cations to be introduced, and have prepared zirconium-containing ordered mesoporous silicas (Zr-MS) which are active and selective for oxidation of a large variety of substrates such as aniline cyclohexane norbonylene, and 2,6-DTBP using both H2O2 and tert-butyl hydroperoxide. In the case of epoxidation reactions, the selectivity of Zr-MS to the epoxide was always lower than over Ti-MS. We think that the lost selectivity toward the epoxide can be due to the strong Lewis acidity of the Zr4+.
Concerning the redox activity of transition metal-substituted ordered mesoporous solids, we can conclude that they represent a very useful and versatile extension of the redox zeolites. Indeed, zeolites and even AlPOs are limited, due to structural strains, on the size of transition metal which can be introduced. This limitation does not occur, at least to the same extent, in the case of the ordered silica mesopores. It is however a pity that in transition metal-containing mesoporous catalysts the activity and selectivity strongly decrease when increasing the level of the metal. For instance in the case of Ti-MCM-41, the turnover number strongly decreases upon increasing the Ti content in the material. In other words, the conversion during olefin epoxidation increases first with the number of titanium atoms incorporated until reaching a maximum at ∼2.0 wt % and then decreases. It appears then that new synthesis procedures have to be developed which allow us to increase the level of active metal on the catalyst. There is another aspect which has been surprisingly neglected and this is the influence of the pore diameter on activity and selectivity of transition metal substituted ordered mesoporous silicas. There is no doubt that even though the substrates studied up to now are smaller than ∼3.5 nm, in the case of liquid-phase processes, effectiviness factors lower than one still may exist for molecules with sizes above 1.2 nm.
Finally, we know now that metal leaching strongly depends on the nature of the substrate, solvent-oxidizing agent, and reaction conditions. Care should be taken in testing these materials, and one should check that homogeneous reactions due to leaching of the metal does not occur under each particular set of reaction conditions.
E. Ordered Mesopores as Support
The high surface area of the ordered mesopores together with the presence of groups able to be functionalized have been of great use to support metal oxides and organometalic compounds achieving very high dispersions of the active phase. In this section we will present an overview of the work done to date in this area and discuss future opportunities.
1. Supporting Acids and Bases
It was seen before that the acidity of ordered mesoporous aluminosilicates was mild and, therefore, unable to catalyze reactions demanding strong acid sites. This limitation could be partially overcome using the mesoporous materials as a support for strong acids such as heteropolyacids. Indeed, it has been published that heteropolyacids could be supported on alumina, silica, and carbon, and the resultant materials were active catalyst for reactions such as paraffin isomerization and isobutane/butene alkylation, which require strong acid sites.1 It was found that supports with basic character such as Al2O3 were not appropriate and neutral or mildly acidic supports such as carbon or silica were required. Taking this into account, it was a logical step to make use of the high surface area of pure silica MCM-41 as a support for heteropolyacids (HPA). 452 This was also done by Kozheunikov et al. 453 by supporting H3PW12O40 (PW) on a mesoporous pure silica MCM-41. In this case the HPA retained the Keggin structure on the MCM-41 surface and formed finally dispersed HPA species, without formation of HPA crystals even at HPA loadings as high as 50 wt %. The most remarkable claim is that even with those high HPA contents the resultant materials presented uniformly sized mesopores of ∼3.0 nm diameter. This is most surprising considering that the starting MCM-41 used has pores of 3.2 nm and since at HPA contents of 50 wt % the maximum dispersion possible would be close to a monolayer, and hence it would be difficult to obtain pores of 3.0 nm in the resultant material. The textural characterization of the samples (Table 26) clearly shows that the surface area strongly decreased, indicating that some pores are blocked by the HPA, and therefore there is not a uniform distribution of the acid on the surface. Nevertheless the resultant material was quite active as a catalyst, and in any case more active than the bulk HPA and even H2SO4 for the liquid phase alkylation of 4-tert-butylphenol with isobutene (Table 27):
Table 26. Surface and Porosity of PW/MCM-41
sample Tmaxa (°C) SBET (m2/g) d (Å) Vp (mL/g)
MCM-41 300 1200 32 0.95
20 wt % PW/MCM-41 250 970 30 0.65
40 wt % PW/MCM-41 250 580 30 0.38
a Pretreatment temperature.
In a second and also interesting report from the same group 454 it was proposed that at lower loadings of HPA (<30 wt %) the predominant species was not the Keggin structure but probably a H6P2W18O62 species which turned out to be eight times more active catalytically than the Keggin structure, which became the predominant species at higher loading (>30 wt %). However when the impregnation was carried out with a methanol solution of HPA, the Keggin structure was the only observed species in the whole range of HPA loading.
Table 27. Alkylation of TBP with Isobutene in Benzene (70 °C, TBP/C6H6 50/50 wt/wt)
      selectivity (mol %)d
catalysta amount (wt %)b τ1/2 (min)c DTBP TTB
97% H2SO4 2.5 21 46 54
amberlyst-15 5.0 41 57 43
PW 2.5 15 89 11
20% PW/MCM-41 2.5 20 86 14
40% PW/MCM-41 2.5 11 87 13
50% PW/MCM-41 2.5 8 91 9
20% PW/SiO2e 2.5 20 89 11
20% PW/SiO2-Al2O3f 5.0 125 87 13
a All the PW catalysts were prepared by impregnation, dried at room temperature in vacuum, and stored over P2O5.b The percentage of the catalyst based on the total amount of the reaction mixture.c The half-time of the TBP conversion.d The selectivity based on TBP at 95% TBP conversion, 0.5−1 h.e As a carrier Aerosil 380 (Degussa AG) was used.f As a carrier an amorphous aluminosilicate LA-SHPV 708 (AKZO) with SBET 539 m2/g and Si/Al 20 was used.
In a similar way to PW heteropolyacids, SiW12 heteropolyacids have also been supported on pure silica and aluminosilicate MCM-41. It was also found that SiW12 retains the Keggin structure on the mesoporous solids and no HPA crystal phase was developed even when SiW12 loadings were as high as 50 wt %. The resultant catalyst was active in the esterification of acetic acid by 1-butanol in a fixed-bed reactor system. It was interesting to observe that some of HPA was leached during the reaction, with the precise amount leached being lower when the calcination temperature was higher and the lower the loading of HPA.
In our opinion there are two aspects which need to be worked on further in the area of MCM-supported HPA. The first one is achieving a really good dispersion, making available use of all the MCM-41 surface. If this is achieved the predominant species formed, even for higher loading, should be the most active H6P2W18O62. The second one is that supported heteropolyacids will have a high tendency to leach when polar molecules are used as reactants. However, the supported HPA, if properly attached to the surface should be quite useful when nonpolar molecules are required to react. These two points have been considered in a recent study from our laboratory, 455 in which we have used two MCM-41 materials with different pore sizes to support various amounts of H3PW12O40. The results clearly show that a better dispersion is obtained when MCM-41 with pores with larger diameters are used, and this is positively reflected in the catalytic alkylation of isobutene/butene.
With respect to supported base catalysts, it was shown previously that it was possible to obtain strong basic catalysts by generating highly disperse crystallites of Cs2O on the surface of MCM-41. This type of catalysts, while they can be active for catalyzing reactions demanding very strong (superbase) base sites, obviously have the inconveniences that they should be prepared and must operate in conditions where no CO2 and H2O are present. There is however the possibility of catalyzing a large number of less demanding reactions by using amines with different basicities. Following the tendency of heterogenizing homogeneous catalysts one may think to anchor the amines to the surface of MCM-41 by means of the silanol groups. The techniques for doing this are well known since chromatographic phases are prepared in this way. Very recently Brunel et al. 456,457 have anchored primary and secondary amines to the surface of pure silica MCM-41, and the resultant materials were found to be active and selective for carrying out Knoevenagel condensation reactions, as well as for the preparation of monoglycerids starting from 2,3-epoxy alcohols and fatty acids. 458 This last reaction represents an alternative to the production of monoglycerides by transesterification of triglycerides with glycerol.
2. Supporting Metals and Oxides
There is a large quantity of accumulated knowledge on supporting metals on carriers, such as Al2O3, SiO2, carbon, and zeolites, among others, and on achieving high metal dispersions. The very high surfaces of ordered mesoporous materials offer new possibilities for obtaining highly dispersed noble metal catalysts. In this respect, Schuth et al. 459 have studied not only more conventional methods such as incipient wetness and ion exchange for incorporation of Pt on MCM-41, but also the direct introduction of Pt during the synthesis of MCM-41. High Pt contents (up to 80% of incorporation) were achieved using the direct incorporation of Pt via the synthesis gel, while small Pt crystallites (40−60 nm) were obtained. A neutral Pt precursor [Pt(NH3)2Cl2] results in the formation of the smallest particles. This observation has been explained by Schüth et al.459 by assuming that during the synthesis, the neutral complex is located in the hydrophobic part of the composite and the individual Pt species are fairly well separated. When the template is removed by calcination, only the Pt particles within one pore coalesce to form a crystallite. This gives a very regular crystal size distribution around 4.0 nm.
Metal dispersion by incipient wetness impregnation or ion exchange gives larger crystallites, with a bimodal distribution of 2 and 20 nm in the former case. While all catalysts were highly active for the oxidation of CO with air the samples prepared by incipient wetness and which have particles of 2 nm were the most active.
The dispersion of Pt by ion exchange from [Pt(NH3)]2+ on Al-MCM-41 was improved by using the same exchange, calcination, and reduction methodology used before in the case of Pt/zeolites. 460 Lower calcination temperatures than those used before produced Pt crystallites of 10 nm for 2 wt % loadings of Pt. Thus, highly dispersed Pt/MCM-41 and Pd/Al-MCM-41 catalysts show good catalytic performance for the hydrogenation of benzene, naphthalene, phenantrene, and olefins as well as for hydrocracking of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene. 461-463
The greatest challenge for Pt-supported catalysts is the deep hydrogenation of aromatics in the presence of sulfur compounds. This comes from the fact that future diesel fuels will soon have to meet 50 ppm of sulfur with a cetane number above 40. Then to improve the cetane number of some diesel streams, for instance those from FCC, the aromatics present will have to be hydrogenated. Thermodynamically, hydrogenation is favored at low temperatures and therefore highly active hydrogenation catalysts as is the case of noble metals would be the most desirable. However, it is well known that noble metals are easily poisoned by sulfur-containing compounds, and some diesel streams can contain up to 2000 ppm of sulfur, while the amount present in the diesel pool is of the order of 200 ppm. Taking this into account, we have studied the possibilities of Pt/MCM-41 catalysts for the hydrogenation of aromatics in the presence of different sulfur levels. 464 In this work, Pt was highly dispersed on ordered (MCM-41) and disordered (MSA) mesoporous solids, and Pt dispersions close to 85% were achieved. A high hydrogenation activity of Pt/MCM-41 was observed when using naphthalene as a model reactant, as well as when employing a light cycle oil refinery stream as the feed. The sulfur resistance (200 ppm) of the Pt on MCM-41 was higher than on other supports such as Al2O3 or amorphous silica-alumina, and it is similar to that obtained with Pt on USY zeolites which are well-known sulfur-resistent catalysts. 465,466
Palladium-titania aerogels with pores in the meso- and macroporous region have been synthesized by the sol-gel-aerogel route. 467 In this case the Pd (crystalline size in the 2−200 nm range) was more active that Pd supported on TiO2 in the liquid phase hydrogenation of 4-methylbenzaldehyde.
There is one type of supported metal catalyst in which the support can play an important role. This is the ethylene and propylene dimerization on nickel- and chromium-containing catalysts, and more generally oligomerization of α-olefin catalysts containing a VIB metal. MCM-41 has been used as support for the preparation of such a catalyst with preference given to chromium.386,387 In the case of ethylene dimerization on Ni M41S 468 it was found that the reaction occurs at 70 °C in Ni/MCM-41 and Ni/Al-MCM-41. The active species was Ni(I) and this is probably better stabilized on AlMCM-41. Therefore the formation of n-butenes increases with the incorporation of Al into the walls of the MCM-41 structure. 469,470
In an analogous way to zeolites that have shown great ability as catalysts for the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx, the emissions of NOx to the atmosphere are reduced by treatment of gases containing the above contaminant with a reducing agent such as ammonia in the presence of a catalyst containing a transition metal on MCM-41. 471 A lean NOx catalyst containing Fe and Pd on a modified MCM-41 allows the control of NOx, CO, and hydrocarbon emissions generated by oxygen-rich combustion processes. Also, V2O5-TiO2 supported on MCM-41 is an active catalyst for the selective reduction of NOx using NH3 as the reduction reagent.
3. Supporting Active Species for Selective Oxidation
The high surface of ordered mesopores, containing silanol groups has been used to inmobilize redox functions following two different techniques. One of them consists on grafting organometallic complexes onto the inner walls of mesoporous MCM-41, while the other involves the functionalization of silanols with silanes, followed by the anchoring of the transition metal complexes to the surface.
With reference to the first technique, the pioneering work involved the grafting of a titanocene complex on the walls of MCM-41 resulted in a material with well dispersed high surface concentration of Ti-containing active sites. 472 This high dispersion was achieved by an elegant procedure which involved the diffusion of a chloroform titanocene dichloride solution into the pores of MCM-41. At that point the surface silanols were activated with triethylamine and grafting occurred. A thorough characterization by X-ray absorption spectroscopy revealed that after calcination the Ti was tetrahedrally coordinated and when exposed to moisture become octahedral.
The resultant Ti-grafted material was active for the selective epoxidation of cyclohexene and pinene using tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP) as oxidant. When the turnovers are compared with Ti-MCM-41 also using TBHP as oxidant the activities were similar. The Ti-grafted catalyst was deactivated after 90 min of reaction, but it could be regenerated by calcination.
Another grafting procedure used gaseous Mn2(CO)10 which reacts with the silanol groups and leads to a high concentration of manganese-oxygen species on MCM-41. These materials are much more active for catalytic oxidations such as propene combustion than those of bulk manganese oxides. 473
The silanols of the MCM-48 have been treated with a vanadium alkoxide solution under an inert atmosphere yielding pseudotetrahedral O32VO centers immobilized on the walls of the mesoporous material most probably grafted by three Si−O−V bridges 474 as proposed from various physicochemical techniques (UV−vis, 51V NMR, XRD). Unfortunately, the catalytic performance of the resultant material was not reported.
Transition metal complexes have also been immobilized on MCM-41 by anchoring one of the ligands to the silanol groups of the walls. Following this methodology, Balkus et al. 475,476 have functionalized the surface of MCM-41 with silanes to yield surface-bound chelate ligands that include ethylenediamine (ED), diethylenetriamine (DET), and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid salts (EDTA). Then, the anchored ligands were used for the preparation of Co(II) complexes covalently bound to MCM-41. These materials have potential use as oxygen carriers and furthermore in catalysis. A M3SnMo(CO)3(η-C5-H5) tin−molybdenum complex has also been encapsulated in MCM-41 silicate. 477 Another type of complex manganese(III) Shiff-base are active and selective homogeneous catalysts for the epoxidation of olefins in the presence of an oxygen donor, such as NaOCl, H2O2, or PhIO. 478,479 It would be then of interest to attach these complexes covalently to the walls of a solid with high surface area and pores with well-defined sizes such as MCM-41. This was recently performed 480 (see scheme) by functionalizing first the surface of the MCM-41 with (3-chloropropyl)triethoxysilane, and treating the resultant with an excess of 3-[N,N‘-bis-3,3-(3,5-di-tert-butylsalicylidenamino)propyl]amine (t-slapr). The introduction of metal atoms was achieved by reacting surface t-salpr ligands with MnII(acac)2, and then by oxidizing the resultant complex to yield MnIII. The anchored complex was well characterized by UV−vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy, and the complex before and after complexation showed similar bands, confirming that its integrity was maintained.
While no catalytic results were given in this work, it is obvious that such a synthetic achievement opens up the possibility of carrying out enantioselective epoxidation of olefins. The reports on enantioselective reactions carried out by anchored complexes are scarce, and only recently it was shown that Rh complexes with a chiral ligand covalently bound to a modified USY zeolite were able to achieve very high enantioselective excesses (>98%) during the hydrogenation of (Z)-N-acylaminocinnamate derivatives. 481 From the standpoint of enantioselective epoxidation, a salen Mn complex with a chiral ligand prepared by a “ship in a bottle” approach in a Y zeolite has proved to be able to epoxidize enantioselectively a variety of olefins using NaOCl as oxygen donor. 482
All these results show the real possibilites of obtaining heterogeneized enantioselective catalysts on ordered mesoporous materials. The combination of the properties of the mesoporous materials with the stability of the covalently bonded complexes can offer new possibilities to permit enantioselective reactions without being limited by diffusional problems.
While complexes such as metalloporphyrin can also be attached to MCM-41 via ionic exchange, 483 one has to be careful in this case when using them as catalysts due to the relative ease with which leaching may occur under reaction conditions.
An interesting report employing silica MCM-41 as an entrapping catalyst has been recently reported. 484 In this case the entrapped molecules were not transition metal complexes, but enzymes such as cytochrome c, papain, and trypsin. They were entrapped by physical adsorption and consequently the amount and retention strongly depends on enzyme size. The entrapped trypsin enzyme was active for the hydrolysis of N-α-benzoyl-dl-arginine-4-nitroaniline.
This work clearly shows that if the pore sizes of the structured silicas could be enlarged to a high limit in the mesoporous region some enzymes that are now immobilized on other supports could also be immobilized through covalent bonding in this type of pore structured materials offering further new possibilities for these systems. However one has to be aware that achieving such high porosities, while keeping the materials stable is not a simple task.
V. Conclusions and Perspectives
In going from microporous zeolites to mesoporous materials one can go through pillared layered materials which have pores in the high limit of microporosity, together with mesopores formed by the arrangement of the layers.
It is possible today to prepare these pillared materials with different interlayer distances and with different layer and pillar compositions. These materials are of great interest in host−guest chemistry. More specifically, in the case of catalysis they are of interest in acid and redox catalysis. Further work is needed to produce materials containing stronger Brønsted sites in the pillars. Finally, new pillared materials in which the layers have a well-defined microporous network will be of much interest. They will not only combine three well-defined porosities in the range of 3.0−6.0, nm (mesopores formed by the ordering of layers), 1.2 nm (corresponding to the galleries between pillars), and 0.4−0.7 nm (pores in the potential microporous layer), but also will improve the stability of the resultant materials. Some steps are being given along this direction as it shown from the synthesis of MCM-36 structures.
When coming into the true mesoporous molecular sieves, the introduction of M41S type materials has opened a very complete new field for preparing materials. We have seen that they are promising catalysts from the point of view of acid, base, and redox catalysis, as well as supports of active phases. Despite the enormous activity developed by researchers in the last five years, there are still some aspects which deserve further and deeper work. Besides an even better knowledge of the mechanism of formation, it would be highly desirable to produce highly thermally and hydrothermally stable materials. Possible research directions include achieving a better polymerization in the walls with fewer connectivity defects and increasing the size of the walls. This certainly will imply further work on the aging synthesis variables as well as on the postsynthesis treatments (maturing, drying, and calcination). In principle, the larger the diameter of the walls is the higher should be the stability, provided that a good polymerization has occurred. Nevertheless, one should take into account that larger walls will preclude a larger number of framework atoms which will not be accessible to reactants. A strong improvement in stability could be obtained if one could make the walls crystalline. If this could be achieved one can dream of producing materials not only more stable and with stronger acidities than the current MCM-41 but also having in the same structure a combination of well-defined micro- and mesopores.
In the case of redox catalysts, while good selective oxidation Ti catalysts have been obtained, there are still several questions to be answered. The first one concerns the impossibility of introducing larger amounts of Ti in the framework without negatively and strongly affecting the activity per Ti site. In this respect one should not forget that when increasing the Ti content a part of the incorporated Ti will be in the walls and, even if it is in the correct coordination, will not cooperate to the final activity since will not be accessible to the reactants. Secondly, a systematic study on the influence of the hydrophobic−hydrophilic properties of the material and the nature of the solvent on the catalytic properties of redox materials is still lacking.
We have seen the importance of the adsorption and diffusion of reactants and products in micro- and mesoporous catalysts on their activity and decay, especially when working in liquid phase, this being particularly important in the field of fine chemicals. It is then remarkable that no studies on the influence of the pore size of MCM-41 have been reported. Along with these lines, it appears very desirable from a diffusional and catalytic point of view to have mesoporous materials with a tridirectional network of pores. While this is barely achieved in variations of MCM-41, it appears (at least theoretically) that MCM-48 can have a tridirectional pore network. It is then surprising the little amount of catalytic work done on MCM-48. This is probably due to the higher difficulty in synthesizing good MCM-48 samples, compared with the much easier synthesized MCM-41. It can be expected that when the synthesis methods for preparing MCM-48 will improve, its interest in catalysis will increase.
It will be of much interest in catalysis to prepare good mesoporous alumina with different pore size, since in this case a high dispersion of Pt, Pd, Pt-Re, and Ni-Mo could be achieved and this could generate new and extremely active hydrogenation, re-forming, and HDS catalysts.
The fact that one can prepare ordered mesoporous materials with pores up to 100 Å gives further possibilities for anchoring transition-metal complexes for carrying out the variety of catalysis that these complexes can give. If on top of that we use those with chiral ligands or chiral assistants, we will be able to carry out enantioselective reactions on heterogeneized catalysts.
From the point of view of the materials discussed, we are in the beginning of an exciting time for those working on materials chemistry and catalysis, and now (more than ever) is time to set our imagination free.
VI. Acknowledgments
The author thanks the financial support of the CICYT, project MAT-97-1016-C02-01.
VII. References
Author Information
Author
Avelino Corma - Instituto de Tecnología Química, UPV-CSIC, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Avda. de los Naranjos s/n, 46022 Valencia, Spain
Avelino Corma Canos was born in Moncófar, Spain, in 1951. He studied chemistry at the Universidad de Valencia (1967−1973) and received his Ph.D. at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid in 1976. He became director of the Instituto de Tecnología Química (UPV-CSIC) at the Universidad Politécnica de Valencia in 1990. His current research field is zeolites as catalysts, covering aspects of synthesis, characterization and reactivity in acid−base and redox catalysis. A. Corma has written about 250 articles on these subjects in international journals, three books, and a number of reviews and book chapters. He is a member of the Editorial Board of Zeolites, Catalysis Review Science and Engineering, Catalysis Letters, Applied Catalysis, Journal of Molecular Catalysis, Research Trends, CaTTech, and Journal of the Chemical Society, Chemical Communications. A. Corma is coauthor of 20 patents, five of them being for commercial applications. He has been awarded with the Dupont Award on new materials (1995), and the Spanish National Award “Leonardo Torres Quevedo” on Technology Research (1996).
This article references 484 other publications.
1Corma, A. Chem. Rev.1995, 95, 559−614.
Google Scholar
2Mirodatos, C.; Barthomeuf, D. J. Catal. 1985, 93, 246.
Google Scholar
3Zicovich-Wilson, C. M.; Corma, A.; Viruela, P. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 10863−10870.
Google Scholar
4Meier, W. M.; Olson, D. H. Atlas of Zeolite Structure Types, 3rd Revised ed.; Butterworth-Heinemann:  Boston, 1992.
Google Scholar
5Wilson, S. T.; Lok, B. M.; Flanigen, E. M. U.S. Patent 4,310,440, 1982.
Google Scholar
6Dessau, R. M.; Schlenker, J. L.; Aiggins, J. B. Zeolites1990, 10, 522.
Google Scholar
7Richardson, J. W., Jr.; Vogt, E. T. C. Zeolites1992, 12, 13.
Google Scholar
8Davies, M. E.; Saldarriaga, C.; Montes, C.; Garcés, J.; Crowder, C. Nature1988, 331, 698.
Google Scholar
9Davies, M. E.; Montes, C.; Garcés, J. M. ACS Symp. Ser. 1989, 398, 291.
Google Scholar
10Esterman, M.; McCuster, L. B.; Baerlocher, Ch.; Merrouche, A.; Kessler, H. Nature1991, 352, 320.
Google Scholar
11Merrouche, A.; Patarín, J.; Kessler, H.; Soulard, M.; Delmotze, L.; Guth, J.L.; Jolly, J. F. Zeolites 1992, 12, 226.
Google Scholar
12Guth, J. L.; Kessler, H.; Caullet, P.; Hazm, J.; Mewouche, A.; Patarín, J. Proc. IX th Int. Zeolite Conference; R. von Ballmoos, et al., Eds.; 1993; p 215
Google Scholar
13Jones, R. H.; Thomas, J. M.; Chen, J.; Xu, R.; Huo, Q.; Li, S.; Ma, Z.; Chippindale, A. M. J. Solid State Chem. 1993, 102, 5605.
Google Scholar
14Huo, Q.; Xu, R.; Li, S.; Ma, Z.; Thomas, J. M.; Jones, R. H.; Chippindale, A.M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1992, 875.
Google Scholar
15Freyhardt, C. C.; Tsapatsis, M.; Lobo, R. F.; Balkus, K. J., Jr.; Davies, M. E. Nature 1996, 381, 295.
Google Scholar
16Balkus, K. J., Jr.; Gabrielov, A. G.; Sandler, N. Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 1995, 368, 369.
Google Scholar
17Moore, P. B.; Shen, J. Nature1983, 306, 356.
Google Scholar
18Cartlidge, S.; Nissen, H. U.; Wessicken, R. Zeolites1989, 9, 346.
Google Scholar
19Beyerlain, R. A.; Choi-Feng, C.; Hall, J. B.; Huggins, B. J.; Ray, G. J. ACS Symp. Series 1994, 571, 81.
Google Scholar
20Corma, A. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1989, 49, 49.
Google Scholar
21Aracil, J.; Martínez, M.; Sánchez, N.; Corma, A. Zeolites 1992, 12, 233.
Google Scholar
22Pinnavaia, T. J.; Kim, H. NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1992; Vol. 352, p 79.
Google Scholar
23Pinnavaia, T. J.; Kwanrand, T.; Yun, S. K. NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1992; Vol. 352, p 91.
Google Scholar
24Pillared Layer Structures; Mitchell, I. V., Ed.; Elsevier:  New York, 1990.
Google Scholar
25Buch, R. Catal. Today1988, 2, 1.
Google Scholar
26Multifunctional Mesoporous Inorganic Solids; NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1993; Vol. 400, p 19.
Google Scholar
27Grange, P. J. Chem. Phys. 1990, 87, 1547.
Google Scholar
28Clearfield, A.; Kuchenmeister, A. ACS Symp. Ser.1992, 499, 128.
Google Scholar
29Barrer, R. M.; McCleod, D. M. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1954, 50, 980.
Google Scholar
30Brindley, G. W.; Sempels, R. E. Clay Miner.1977, 12, 299.
Google Scholar
31Vaughan, D. E.; Lussier, R. J.; Magee, J. S. U.S. Patent 4,176,090, 1979.
Google Scholar
32Casci, J. L. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.1994, 85, 329.
Google Scholar
33Vaughan D. E. Catal. Today1988, 187, 2
Google Scholar
34Clearfield, A. Multifunctional Mesoporous Inorganic Solids; NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1993; Vol. 400, p 169.
Google Scholar
35Clearfield, A.; Tindwa, R. M. Inorg. Nucl. Chem. Lett. 1979, 15, 251.
Google Scholar
36Clearfield, A. Comments Inorg. Chem. 1990, 10, 89.
Google Scholar
37Alberti, C.; Constantino, U. In Inclusion Compounds; Atwood, J. L., Davies, J. E. D., MacNicol, D. D., Eds.; Oxford University Press:  Oxford, 1991; Vol. 5, p 132.
Google Scholar
38Clearfield, A.; Roberts, B. D. Inorg. Chem. 1988, 27, 3237.
Google Scholar
39Burwell, D. A.; Thompson, M. E. Chem. Mater.1991, 3, 730.
Google Scholar
40Rosenthal, G. L.; Coruso, J. Inorg. Chem. 1992, 31, 3104.
Google Scholar
41Reichle, W. T. Chemtech1986, 58.
Google Scholar
42Clearfield, A. Chem. Rev. 1988, 88, 125.
Google Scholar
43Kwon, T.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Chem. Mater. 1989, 1, 381.
Google Scholar
44Baker, L. C. W.; Figgs, J. S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1970, 92, 3794.
Google Scholar
45Bradley, S. M.; Kydd, R. A. Catal. Lett. 1991, 8, 185.
Google Scholar
46Coelho, A. V.; Poncelet, G. Appl. Catal. 1991, 77, 303.
Google Scholar
47Gonzalez, F.; Pesquera, C.; Blanco; Benito, I.; Mendioroz, S. Inorg. Chem. 1992, 31, 727.
Google Scholar
48Pesquera, C.; Gonzalez, F.; Hernando, M. J.; Blanco, C.; Benito, I. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett.1995, 55, 267.
Google Scholar
49McCauley, J. R. U.S. Patent 5,202,295, 1993.
Google Scholar
50Guann, J.; Min, E.; Yu, Z. Proc. 9th Int. Conf. Catal. Calgary 1988, 104.
Google Scholar
51Ocelli, M. L.; Dominguez, J. M.; Eckert, H. J. Catal. 1993, 141, 510.
Google Scholar
52Wu, J.; Rakievicz, E. F.; Gatte, R. R. Advances in porous materials; Mater. Res. Proc.; Kiomarneni, S., Smith, D. M., Beck, J. S., Eds.; Materials Research Society:  Pittsburgh, PA, 1995; Vol. 371, p 181.
Google Scholar
53Vaughan, J. S.; O'Connor, C. T.; Fletcher, J. C. J. Catal. 1994, 147, 441.
Google Scholar
54Vaughan, D. E. U.S. Patent 5,326,734, 1994.
Google Scholar
55Occelli, M. L.; Tindawa, R. M. Clays Clay Miner.1983, 31, 22.
Google Scholar
56Tichit, D.; Fajula, F.; Figueras, F.; Bousquet, J.; Gueguen, C. In Catalysis by acids and bases; Imelik, B., Ed.; Elsevier:  Amsterdam, 1985; p 351.
Google Scholar
57Poncelet, G.; Schultz, A. In Chemical Reactions in Organic and Inorganic Constrained systems; Setton, R., Ed.; 1986; p 165.
Google Scholar
58Chevalier, S.; Franck, R.; Suquet, H.; Lombert J. F.; Barthomeuf, D. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.1994, 90, 667.
Google Scholar
59Ming-Yuan, H.; Zhonghui, L.; Enze, M. Catal. Today1988, 2, 321.
Google Scholar
60Ghenciu, A.; Farcasiu, D. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem.1996, 109, 273.
Google Scholar
61Zubkov, S. A.; Kustov, L. M.; Kazansky, V. B.; Fetter, G.; Tichit, D.; Figueras, F. Clays Clay Miner.1994, 42, 421.
Google Scholar
62Swarnakar, R.; Brandt, K. B.; Kydd, R. A. Appl. Catal. A1996, 142, 61.
Google Scholar
63Moreno, S.; Kou, R. S.; Poncelet, G. J. Catal 1996, 162, 198.
Google Scholar
64Bovey, J.; Jones, W. J. Mater. Chem. 1995, 5, 2027.
Google Scholar
65Mokaya, R.; Jones, W. J. Catal.1995, 153, 76.
Google Scholar
66Clearfield A.; Aly, H. H.; Serrette, G. P. D.; Shea, W. L.; Tsai, T. Y. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal 1994, 83, 433.
Google Scholar
67Gil, A.; Guin, G.; Grange, P.; Montes, M. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 301.
Google Scholar
68Fetter, G.; Tichit, D.; Denenorval, L. C.; Figueras, F. Appl. Catal. A 1995, 126, 165.
Google Scholar
69Bartley, G. J. J. Catal. Today 1988, 2, 233.
Google Scholar
70Bradley, S. M.; Kydd, R. A. J. Catal. 1993, 141, 239.
Google Scholar
71Ohtsuka, K.; Hayashi, Y.; Suda, M. Chem. Mater. 1993, 5, 1823.
Google Scholar
72Kitabayashi, S.; Shindo, T.; Ono, K.; Ohnuma, H. Nipon Kagaku Kaishi1996, 7, 624.
Google Scholar
73Jhonson, J. W.; Brody, J. F.; Soled, S. L.; Gates, W. E.; Robbins, J. L.; Marucchisoos, E. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem. 1996, 107, 67.
Google Scholar
74Auer, H.; Hofmann, H. Appl. Catal. A 1993, 97, 23.
Google Scholar
75Sychev, M.; Kostoglod, N.; Vanoers, E. M., Debeer, V. H. J.; VanSanten, R. A.; Kornatowski, J.; Rozwadowski, M. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1995, 94, 39.
Google Scholar
76Yamanaka, S.; Hattori, M. Catal. Today1988, 2, 261.
Google Scholar
77Baksh, M. S.; Kikkinides, E. S.; Yang, R. T. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1992, 31, 2181.
Google Scholar
78Kiricsi, I.; Molnar, A.; Palinko, I.; Lazar, K. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1995, 95, 63.
Google Scholar
79Zurita, M. J. P.; Vitale, G.; Goldwaser, M. R.; Rojas, D.; Garcia, J. J. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem. 1996, 107, 175.
Google Scholar
8080. Ladavos, A. K.; Trikalitis, P. N.; Pomonis, P. J. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem. 1996, 106, 241.
Google Scholar
81Sterte, J. Clays Clay Miner. 1986, 34, 658.
Google Scholar
82Barnier, A.; Admala, L. F.; Grange, P. Appl. Catal. 1991, 77, 269.
Google Scholar
83Yamanaka, S.; Hattori, M. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 60, 89.
Google Scholar
84Lin, J. T.; Jong, S. J.; Cheng, S. Microporous Mater. 1993, 1, 287.
Google Scholar
85Del Castillo, H. L.; Grange, P. Appl. Catal. A1993, 103, 23.
Google Scholar
86Bahranowski, K.; Dula, R.; Komorek, J.; Romotowski, T.; Serwicka, E. M. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1995, 91, 747.
Google Scholar
87Gil A.; Del Castillo, H. L.; Masson, J.; Court, J.; Grange, P. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem. 1996, 107, 185.
Google Scholar
88Takahama, K.; Kishimoto, T.; Yokoyama, M.; Hirao, S. Nippon Kagaku Kaishi, 1995, 4, 251.
Google Scholar
89Jong, S. J.; Lin, J. T.; Cheng, S. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 83, 33.
Google Scholar
90Kiricsi, I.; Palinko, I.; Tasi, G.; Hannus, I. Mol. Cryst. Liquid Cryst. Sci. Technol., Sect. A 1994, 244, 149.
Google Scholar
91Guin, G., Grange, P. Mol. Cryst. Liquid Cryst. Sci. Technol., A1994, 244, A255.
Google Scholar
92Doblin, C.; Mathews, J. F.; Turney, T. W. Catal. Lett.1994, 23, 151.
Google Scholar
93Occelli, M. L.; Ines, R. A.; Hwu, F. S. S.; Hightowr, J. W. Appl. Catal. 1985, 14, 69.
Google Scholar
94Yi, H. X.; Shing, K. S.; Sahimi, M. AIChE J.1995, 41, 456.
Google Scholar
95Yi, H. X.; Shing, K. S.; Sahimi, M. Chem. Eng. Sci.1996, 51, 3409.
Google Scholar
96Vaughan, D. E. W.; Lussier, R. J. Proc. 5th Int. Conf. on Zeolite 1980, 94.
Google Scholar
97Shabtai, J.; Massoth, F. E.; Takarz, M.; Tsai, G. M.; Mc Cauley, J. Proc. Int. Congr. Catal.1984, 4 (Berlin), 735.
Google Scholar
98Pinnavaia, T. J.; Tzou, M. S.; London, S. D.; Raythatha, R. M. J. Mol. Catal. 1985, 27, 195.
Google Scholar
99Poncelet, G.; Schultz, A. Chemical Reactions in Organic and Inorganic Constrained Systems; Setton, R., Ed.; Elsevier:  New York, 1986; p 165.
Google Scholar
100Ming-Yuan, H.; Zhonghui, L.; Enze, M. Catal. Today 1988, 2, 321.
Google Scholar
101Bradley, S. M.; Kydd, R. A. J. Catal. 1993, 141, 239.
Google Scholar
102Swarnakar, R.; Brandt, K. B.; Kydd, R. A. Appl. Catal. A1996, 142, 61.
Google Scholar
103Shen, Y. F.; Ko, A. N.; Grange, P. Appl. Catal. 1990, 67, 93.
Google Scholar
104Hashimoto, K.; Hanada, Y.; Minami, Y.; Kera, Y. Appl. Catal. A 1996, 141, 57.
Google Scholar
105Wong, S. T.; Wong, S. H.; Liu, S. B.; Cheng, S. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1992, 84, 305.
Google Scholar
106Moini, A.; Brewer, T. D.; Tzou, M. S.; Landau, S. D.; Theo, B. K.; Pinnavaia, T. J. ACS Symp. Ser. 1989, 415, 455.
Google Scholar
107Molina, R.; Schultz, A.; Poncelet, G. J. Catal. 1994, 145, 79.
Google Scholar
108Auer, H.; Ofmann, M. Appl. Catal. A 1993, 97, 23.
Google Scholar
109Zhao, D. Y.; Yang, Y. S.; Guo, X. X. Mater. Res. Bull. 1993, 28, 939.
Google Scholar
110Isagulyants, G. V.; Chekin, S. S.; Vyunova, G. M.; Sterligov, O. D.; Kapustin, G. I. Kinet. Catal. 1993, 34, 257.
Google Scholar
111Sterte, J. ACS Symp. Ser. 1990, 437, 104.
Google Scholar
112Guan, J.; Yu, Z.; Fu, Y.; Lee, C.; Wang, X. Prepr. Am. Chem. Soc. Div. Pet. Chem. 1994, 39, 384.
Google Scholar
113Kikuchi, E.; Seki, H.; Masudo, T. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 63, 311.
Google Scholar
114Occelli, M. L.; Finseth, D. H. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 316.
Google Scholar
115Occelli, M. L.; Landau, S. D.; Pinnavaia, T. J. J. Catal. 1984, 90, 256.
Google Scholar
116Chevalier, S.; Franck, R.; Lambert, J. F.; Barthomeuf, D. Appl. Catal. A 1994, 110, 153.
Google Scholar
117Vaughan, D. E. W. Catal. Today1988, 2, 187.
Google Scholar
118Molina, R.; Moreno, S.; Vieira-Coelho, A.; Martens, J. A.; Jacobs, P. A.; Poncelet, G. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 304.
Google Scholar
119Mendioroz, S.; Gonzalez, F.; Pesquera, C.; Benito, I.; Blanco, C.; Poncelet, G. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 75, 1637.
Google Scholar
120Jiang, D.; Sun, T.; Min, E.; He, M. Proc. 9th Int. Zeolite Conf.; Von Ballmos, R., Higgings, J. B., Tracy, M. M., Eds.; Butterworth-Heinmann:  Boston, 1993; p 631.
Google Scholar
121Doblin, C.; Matthews, J.; Turney, T. Appl. Catal. 1991, 70, 197.
Google Scholar
122Hernando, M. J:; Pesquera, C.; Blanco, C.; Benito, I.; Gonzalez F. Appl. Catal. A1996, 141, 175; Chemistry Mater.1996, 8, 76.
Google Scholar
123Moreno, S.; Kou, R. S.; Poncelet, G. J. Catal. 1996, 162, 198.
Google Scholar
124Swarnakar, R.; Brandt, K. B.; Kydd, R. A.; Appl. Catal. A. 1996, 142, 61.
Google Scholar
125Lambert, S. L. U.S. Patent 805,752, 1991.
Google Scholar
126Holmgren, J. S., Gembicki, S. A.; Schoonover, M. W.; Kocal, J. A. U.S. Patent 632,244, 1990.
Google Scholar
127Holmgren, J. S. U.S. Patent 5,286,368, 1994.
Google Scholar
128Holmgren, J. S.; Gembicki, S. A.; Schoonover, M. W.; Kocal, J. A. U.S. Patent 5,160,032, 1992.
Google Scholar
129Gruia, A. J. U.S. Patent 5,007,998, 1991.
Google Scholar
130Marcilly, Ch. U.S. Patent 860,927, 1986.
Google Scholar
131Occelli, M. L. U.S. Patent 5,076,907, 1991.
Google Scholar
132Occelli, M. L. U.S. Patent 5,374,349, 1994.
Google Scholar
133Occelli, M. L. U.S. Patent 5,023,221, 1991.
Google Scholar
134Occelli, M. L. Rennard, R. J. Catal. Today 1988, 2, 309.
Google Scholar
135Gembicki, J. S. U.S. Patent 5,114,895, 1992.
Google Scholar
136Sarup, B.; Hommeltoft, S. I.; Sylvest-Johansen, M.; Soegaard-Andersen, P. Catal. Solid Acids Bases1996, 1, 175.
Google Scholar
137Bentham, M. F.; Gajda, G. F.; Jensen, R. H.; Zinnen, H. A. Catal. Solid Acids Bases 1996, 1, 155.
Google Scholar
138Oldenberg, T.; Seefeld, V.; Parlitz, B.; Trettin, R. Catal. Solid Bases 1996, 1, 277.
Google Scholar
139Krajcovic, J.; Hudec, P.; Grejtak, F. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1995, 54, 87.
Google Scholar
140Onaka, M. J. Synth. Org. Chem. 1995, 53, 392.
Google Scholar
141Llamas, A.; Bautista, F.; Corma, A.; Martínez, C.; Pérez-Pariente, J. SP Patent 9300828, 1993.
Google Scholar
142Knifton, J. F. Appl. Catal. A 1994, 109, 247; Knifton, J. F. U.S. Patent 4,870,217, 1990.
Google Scholar
143Groot, W. A.; Coenen, E. L. J.; Kuster, B. F. M.; Marín, G. B. 11th Int. Conf. Catal. Baltimore, 1996.
Google Scholar
144Barlow, S. J.; Bastock, T. W. Worldwide Solid Acid process Conference, Houston, TX, Catalyst Consultants Ed., 1993.
Google Scholar
145Isagulyants, G. V.; Chekin, S. S.; Vyunova, G. M.; Sterligov, O. D.; Kapustin, G. I. Kinet. Catal. 1993, 34, 257.
Google Scholar
146Moyaka, R.; Jones, W. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 929.
Google Scholar
147Kokal, J. U.S. Patent 5,034,564, 1991.
Google Scholar
148Min, E. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 83, 443.
Google Scholar
149Horio, M.; Suzuki, K.; Masuda, H.; Mori, T. Appl. Catal. 1991, 72, 109.
Google Scholar
150Buruille, J. R.; Pinnavaia, T. J. In Multifunctional Mesoporous Inorganic Solids; Sequeira, C. A. C., Hudson, M. J., Eds.; NATO ASI Series, Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1993, p 259.
Google Scholar
151Gutierrez, E.; Ruiz-Hitzky, E. Pillared Layered Structures; Mitchell, I. V., Ed.; Elsevier:  New York, 1990; p 199.
Google Scholar
152Destefanis, A.; Perez, G.; Ursini, O.; Tomlinson, A. A. G. Appl. Catal. A1995, 132, 353.
Google Scholar
153Corma, A; Iborra, S; Miquel, S. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
154Lourvanij, K., Rorrer, G. L. Appl. Catal. A1994, 109, 147.
Google Scholar
155Weiss, A.. Angew. Chem. Ind. Ed. Engl. 1981, 20, 850.
Google Scholar
156Mortland, M. M.; Berkheiser, V. Clays Clay Miner.1976, 24, 60.
Google Scholar
157Alberti, G.; Constantino, S.; Allulli, N.; Tomassini, N. J. Inorg. Nucl. Chem. 1978, 40, 1113.
Google Scholar
158Maireles-Torres, P.; Jimenez-López, A.; Sanz, J.; Fierro, J. L. G. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 1491.
Google Scholar
159Tomlinson, A. A. G. In Pillared Layered Structures; Mitchell, I. V., Ed.; Elsevier Applied Science:  London, 1990; p 91.
Google Scholar
160Jimenez-López, A.; Maireles-Torres, P.; Olivera-Pastor, P.; Rodriguez-Castellon, E.; Tomlinson, A. A. G. In Multifunctional Mesoporous Inorganic Solids; Sequeira, C. A. C., Hudson, M. J., Eds.; NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1993; p 273.
Google Scholar
161Alberti, G. In Multifunctional Mesoporous Inorganic Solids; Sequeira, C. A. C., Hudson, M. J., Eds.; NATO ASI Series; Kluwer Academic Publishers:  Dordrecht, 1993; p 179.
Google Scholar
162Alberti, G.; Gasciola, M.; Constantino, U.; Vivani, R. Adv. Mater.1996, 8, 291.
Google Scholar
163Jaimez, E.; Bortun, A.; Hix, G. B.; García, J. R.; Rodriguez, J., Slade, R. C.T. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1996, 11, 2285.
Google Scholar
164Song, Y. J.; Hui, Z.; Yang, Q. L.; Zhao, A. M. J. Radioanal. Nucl. Chem.1995, 198, 375.
Google Scholar
165Cabeza, A.; Aranda, M. A. G.; Cantero, F. M.; Lozano, D.; Martinez-Lara, M.; Bruque, S. J. Solid. State Chem. 1996, 121, 181.
Google Scholar
166Maireles-Torres, P.; Olivera-Pastor, P.; Rodriguez-Castellon, E.; Jiménez-López, A.; Alagna, A.; Tomlinson, A. G. J. Mater. Chem. 1991, 1, 319.
Google Scholar
167Maireles-Torres, P.; Olivera-Pastor, P.; Rodriguez-Castellon, E.; Jiménez-López, A.; Alagna, A.; Tomlinson, A. G. J. Mater. Chem. 1991, 1, 739.
Google Scholar
168Maireles-Torres, P.; Olivera-Pastor, P.; Rodriguez-Castellon, E.; Jiménez-López, A.; Alagna, A.; Tomlinson, A. G. J. Solid State Chem. 1991, 94, 368.
Google Scholar
169Bagnasco, G.; Ciambelli, P.; Turco, M.; La Giniesta, A., Patrono, P. Appl. Catal. 1991, 68, 69.
Google Scholar
170Ramis, G.; Busca, G.; Lorenzelli, V.; La Giniesta, A.; Galli, P.; Massucci, M. A. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1988, 881.
Google Scholar
171La Ginesta, A.; Patrono, P.; Beradelli, M. L.; Galli, P.; Ferragina, C.; Massucci, M. A. J. Catal. 1987, 103, 346.
Google Scholar
172Clearfield, A.; Thakur, D. S. Appl. Catal. 1986, 26, 1.
Google Scholar
173Dines, M. B.; Digiacomo, P. Inorg. Chem.1981, 20, 92.
Google Scholar
174Dines, M. B.; Griffith, P. C. J. Phys. Chem. 1982, 86, 571.
Google Scholar
175Clearfield, A. Comments Inorg. Chem. 1990, 10, 89.
Google Scholar
176Segawa, K.; Sugiyama, A.; Kurusu, Y. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 60, 73.
Google Scholar
177King, D. L.; Cooper, M. D.; Sanderson, W. A.; Schramm, C. M.; Fellmann, J. D. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 63, 247.
Google Scholar
178Derouane, E. G.; Jullien-Lardot, V. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 83, 11.
Google Scholar
179Castillo, M. L.; Guil, A.; Grange, P. Catal. Lett. 1996, 36, 237.
Google Scholar
180Yang, R. T.; Chen, J. P.; Kikkinides, E. S.; Cheng, L. S.; Ciechanowicz, J. E. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1992, 31, 1440.
Google Scholar
181Chen, J. P.; Hansladen, M. C.; Yang, R. T. J. Catal. 1995, 151, 135.
Google Scholar
182Chen, J. P.; Yang, R. T. J. Catal. 1990, 125, 411.
Google Scholar
183Rajadhyaksha, R. A.; Knozinger, H. Appl. Catal. 1989, 51, 81.
Google Scholar
184Lamesch, A.; Del Castillo M.; Vanderwegen, P. ; Daza, L.; Jannes, G.; Grange, P. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 78, 299.
Google Scholar
185Choudary, B. M.; Shobha Rani, S.; Narender, N. Catal. Lett. 1993, 19, 299.
Google Scholar
186Takahama.K; Sako, F.; Yokoyama, M.; Hirao, S. Nippon Kagaku Kaishi1994, 613, 7.
Google Scholar
187Volzone, C. Clays Clay Miner. 1995, 43, 377.
Google Scholar
188Tzou, M. S.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Catal. Today1988, 2, 243.
Google Scholar
189Sychev, M.; de Beer, V. H. J., Van Santen, R. A.; Prihoko, R.; Goncharuk, V. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 267.
Google Scholar
190Kiyozumi, Y.; Suzuki, K.; Shin, S.; Owaga, K.; Saito, K.; Yamanaka, S. Jpn. Kokai Tokyo Koho 1984, 59-2166, 31.
Google Scholar
191Bergaya, F.; Hassoun, N.; Gatineau, L.; Barrault, J. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 63, 329.
Google Scholar
192Mari, D.; Barrault, J.; Zivkov, C.; Van Damme, H.; Hassoun, N. FR Patent 2,167,739, 1989.
Google Scholar
193Landau, S. D.; Hinnenkamp, J. A. U.S. Patent 4,963,518, 1990.
Google Scholar
194Kleinfeld, E. R.; Ferguson, G. S. Science1994, 265, 370.
Google Scholar
195Cao, G.; Hong, H. G.; Mallouk, T. E. Acc. Chem. Res.1992, 25, 420.
Google Scholar
196Miredami, B. K.; Morrison, S. R. J. Appl. Phys.1990, 67, 1515.
Google Scholar
197Smith, R. L.; Rohrer, G. S. Advances in Porous Materials; Komarneni, S., Smith, D. M., Beck, J. S., Eds.; Materials Research Society:  Pittsburgh, PA, 1995; Vol. 371, p 187.
Google Scholar
198Foley, H. C.; Kane, M. S.; Goellner, J. F. Access in Nanoporous Materials; Pinnavaia, T. J., Thorpe, M. F., Eds.; Plenum:  New York, 1995; p 39.
Google Scholar
199Mann, S.; Ozin, G. A. Nature1996, 382, 313.
Google Scholar
200Tanev, P. T.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Science 1996, 271, 1267.
Google Scholar
201Landis, M. E.; Aufdembrink, B. A.; Chu, P.; Johnson, I. D.; Kirker, G. W.; Rubin, M. K. J. Am. Chem. Soc.1991, 113, 3189.
Google Scholar
202Hou, W.; Yan, Q.; Peng, B.; Fu, X. J. Mater. Chem.1995, 5, 109.
Google Scholar
203Iler, R. K. J. Colloid Sci. 1964, 139, 648.
Google Scholar
204Borbely, G.; Beyer, H. K.; Karge, H. G.; Schwieger, W.; Brandt, A.; Bergk, K.H. Clays Clay Miner. 1991, 39, 490.
Google Scholar
205Lagaly, G.; Beneke, K. Colloid Polym. Sci. 1991, 269, 1198.
Google Scholar
206Rojo, J. M.; Ruiz-Hitzky, E.; Sanz, J.; Sarratosa, J. M. Rev. Chim. Miner. 1983, 20, 807.
Google Scholar
207Dailey, J. S.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Chem. Mater. 1992, 4, 855.
Google Scholar
208Kosuge, K.; Tsunashima, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2427.
Google Scholar
209Schreyeck, L.; Caullet, P.; Mougend, T. C.; Guth, J. L.; Marler, B. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2187.
Google Scholar
210Mitchell, T. O.; Whitehurst, D. D. U.S. Patent 4,003,825, 1977.
Google Scholar
211Magee, J. S.; Daugherty, R. P. U.S. Patent 3,912,619, 1975.
Google Scholar
212Vaughan, D. E. W.; Maher, P. K.; Albers, E. W. U.S. Patent 3,838,037, 1974.
Google Scholar
213Manton, M. R. S.; Davidtz, J. C. J. Catal.1979, 60, 156.
Google Scholar
214Corma, A.; Pérez-Pariente, J.; Fornés, V.; Rey, F.; Rawlence, D. Appl. Catal.1990, 63, 145.
Google Scholar
215Samoson, A.; Lippmaa, E.; Engelhardt, G.; Lohse, D.; Jerschwitz, H. G. Chem. Phys. Lett.1987, 134, 589.
Google Scholar
216Bellusi, G.; Perego, C.; Carati, A.; Peratello, S.; Previde Massara, E.; Perego, G. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.1994, 84, 85.
Google Scholar
217Corma, A.; Martínez, A.; Pergher, S.; Peratello, S.; Perego, C.; Bellusi, G. Appl. Catal. A1997, 3687.
Google Scholar
218Corma, A.; Martínez, A.; Pergher, S.; Peratello, S.; Perego, C.; Bellusi, G. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
219Kresge, C. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Roth, W. J.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,098,684, 1992.
Google Scholar
220Kresge, C. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Roth, W. J.; Vartulli, J. C.; Beck, J. S. Nature1992, 359, 710.
Google Scholar
221Beck, J. S.; Chu, C. T.; Johnson, I. D.; Kresge, C. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Roth, W. J.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,108,725, 1992.
Google Scholar
222Beck, J. S.; Calabro, D. C.; McCullen, S. B.; Pelrine, B. P.; Schmitt, K. D.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,145,816, 1992.
Google Scholar
223Beck, J. S.; Kresge, C. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Roth, W. J.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,264,203, 1993.
Google Scholar
224Beck, J. S.; Smith, K. D.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,334,368, 1994. Beck, J. S.; Kresge, C. T.; McCullen, S. B.; Roth, W. J.; Vartulli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,370,785, 1994.
Google Scholar
225Beck, J. S.; Vartulli, J. C.; Roth, W. J.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Kresge, C. T.; Schmitt, K. D.; Chu, C. T.-W.; Olson, D. H.; Sheppard, E. W.; McCullen, S. B.; Higgins, J. B.; Schlenker, J. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc.1992, 114, 10834.
Google Scholar
226Vartulli, J. C.; Kresge, C. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Chu, A. S.; McCullen, S. B.; Johnson, I. D.; Sheppard, E. W. Chem. Mater.1994, 6, 2070.
Google Scholar
227Beck, J. S.; Vartulli, J. C.; Kennedy, G. J.; Kresge, C. T.; Roth, W. J.; Schramm, S. E. Chem. Mater.1994, 6, 1816.
Google Scholar
228Vartulli, J. C.; Schmitt, K. D.; Kresge, C. T.; Roth, W. J.; Leonowicz, M. E.; McCullen, S. B.; Hellring, S. D.; Beck, J. S.; Schlenker, J. L.; Olson, D. H.; Sheppard, E. W. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.1994, 84, 53.
Google Scholar
229Winsor, P. A. Chem. Rev.1968, 68, 1.
Google Scholar
230Ekwall, P. In Advances in Liquid Crystals; Brown, G. H., Ed.; Academic Press Inc.:  New York, 1971; p 1.
Google Scholar
231Chen, C. Y.; Burkett, S. L.; Li, H. X; Davis, M. E. Microporous Mater. 1993, 2, 27.
Google Scholar
232Monnier, A.; Schüth, F.; Huo, Q.; Kumar, D.; Margolese, D.; Maxwell, R. S.; Stucky, G. D.; Krishnamurty, M.; Petroff, P.; Firouzi, A.; Janicke, M.; Chmelka, B. F. Science1993, 261, 1299.
Google Scholar
233Huo, Q.; Margolese, D. I.; Ciesla, U.; Feng, P.; Sieger, P.; Leon, R.; Petroff, P.; Schüth, F.; Stucky, G. D. Nature1994, 368, 317.
Google Scholar
234Stucky, G. D.; Monnier, A.; Schüth, F.; Huo, Q.; Margolese, D. I.; Kumar, D.; Krishnamurty, M.; Petroff, P.; Firouzi, A.; Janicke, M.; Chmelka, B. F. Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 1994, 240, 187.
Google Scholar
235Ciesla, U.; Demuth, D.; León, R.; Petroff, P.; Stucky, G.; Unger, K.; Schüth, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 1387.
Google Scholar
236Bull, L. M.; Kumar, D.; Millar, S. P.; Besier, T.; Janicke, M.; Stucky, G. D.; Chmelka, B. F. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 429.
Google Scholar
237Firouzi, A.; Kumar, D.; Bull, L. M.; Besier, T.; Sieger, P.; Huo, Q.; Walker, S. A.; Zasadzinski, J. A.; Glinka, C.; Nicol, J.; Margolesse, D.; Stucky, G. D.; Chmelka, B. F. Science1995, 267, 1138.
Google Scholar
238Huo, Q.; León, R.; Petroff, P. M.; Stucky, G. D. Science1995, 268, 1324.
Google Scholar
239Stucky, G. D.; Huo, Q.; Firouzi, A.; Chmelka, B. F.; Schacht, S.; Voigt-Martin, I. G.; Schüth, F. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1997, 105, 3.
Google Scholar
240Glinka, C. J.; Nicol, J. M.; Stucky, G. D.; Ramli, E.; Margolese, D. I.; Huo, Q. Advances in Porous Materials; Mater. Res. Proc. Komarneni, S., Smith, D. M., Beck, J. S., Eds.; Materials Research Society:  Pittsburgh, PA, 1995, Vol. 371, p 47.
Google Scholar
241Calabro, D. C.; Valyocsik, E. W.; Ryan, F. X. Microporous Mater. 1996, 7, 243.
Google Scholar
242Tanev, P. T.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Science 1995, 267, 865.
Google Scholar
243Bagshaw, S. A.; Prouzet, S. A.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Science1995, 269, 1242.
Google Scholar
244Attard, G. S.; Glyde, J. C.; Goltner, C. G. Nature 1995, 378, 366.
Google Scholar
245Behrens, P. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.1996, 35, 515.
Google Scholar
246Corma, A.; Khan, Q.; Rey, F. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
247Tanev, P. T.; Chibwe, M.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Nature 1994, 368, 321.
Google Scholar
248Elder, K. J.; White, J. W. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 155.
Google Scholar
249Chu, P.; Dwyer, F. G.; Vartuli, J. C. U.S. Patent 4,778,666, 1988.
Google Scholar
250Lohse, U.; Bertram, R.; Jancke, K.; Kurzawski, I.; Parlitz, B.; Loeffler, E.; Schreier, E. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.1995, 91, 1163.
Google Scholar
251Girnus, I.; Jancke, R.; Vetter, R.; Richter-Mendau, J.; Caro, J. Zeolites1995, 15, 33.
Google Scholar
252Meng, X.; Xu, W.; Tang, S.; Pang, W. Chin. Chem. Lett.1992, 3, 69.
Google Scholar
253Arafat, A.; Janson, J. C.; Ebaid, A. R.; van Bekkum, H. Zeolites1993, 13, 162.
Google Scholar
254Wu, Ch.G.; Bein, Th. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.1995, 925.
Google Scholar
255Ryoo, R.; Kim, J. M.; Ko, C. H.; Shin, C. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 17718.
Google Scholar
256Ryoo, R.; Kim, J. M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.1995, 711.
Google Scholar
257Ko, Ch.H.; Ryoo, R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.1996, 2467.
Google Scholar
258Ulagappan, N.; Rao, C. N. R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 2759.
Google Scholar
259Beck, J. S. U.S. Patent 5,057,296, 1991.
Google Scholar
260Khushalani, D.; Kuperman, A.; Ozin, G. A.; Tanaka, K.; Garcés, J.; Olken, M.M.; Kuperman, A. Adv. Mater. 1996, 7, 842. Corma, A.; Kan, Q.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J.; Rey, F. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
261Yanagisawa, T.; Shimizu, T.; Kuroda, K.; Kato, C. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1990, 63.
Google Scholar
262Inagaki, S.; Fukushima, Y.; Kada, A. O.; Kuranchi, T.; Kuroda, K.; Kato, C. 9th Inter. Zeol. Conf. Von Ballmos, et al., Ed.), Butterworth-Heinemann:  Boston, 1993; p 305.
Google Scholar
263Inagaki, S.; Fukushima, Y.; Kuroda, K. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 125.
Google Scholar
264Yanagisawa, T.; Shimizu, T.; Kuroda, K.; Kato, C. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1990, 63, 1535.
Google Scholar
265Ishikawa, T.; Matsuda, M.; Yasukawa, A.; Kandori, K.; Inagaki, S.; Fukushima, Y.; Kondo, S. J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 1985.
Google Scholar
266Chen, C. Y.; Xiao, S. Q.; Davis, M. E. Microporous Mater.1995, 4, 1.
Google Scholar
267O'Brien, S.; Francis, R. J.; Price, S. J.; O'Hare, D.; Clarck, S. M.; Okazaki, N.; Korada, K. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2423.
Google Scholar
268Kolodziejski, W; Coma, A.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J. Solid State Nucl. Magn. Reson. 1993, 2, 253.
Google Scholar
269Corma, A.; Fornés, V.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 569.
Google Scholar
270Schmidt, R.; Junggreen, H.; Stocker, M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 875.
Google Scholar
271Schmidt, R.; Akporiaye, D.; Stöcker, M.; Ellestad, O. H. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1994, 1493.
Google Scholar
272Luan, Z.; Cheng, Ch. F.; Zhou, W.; Klinowski, J. J. Phys Chem. 1995, 99, 1018.
Google Scholar
273Janicke, M.; Kumar, D.; Stucky, G. D.; Chmelka, B. F. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 243.
Google Scholar
274Schmidt, R.; Akporiaye, D.; Stocker, M.; Ellestad, O. H. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 61.
Google Scholar
275Borade, R. B.; Clearfield, A. Catal. Lett. 1995, 31, 267.
Google Scholar
276Busio, M.; Jänchen, J.; Van Hooff, J. H. C. Microporous Mater.1995, 5, 211.
Google Scholar
277Luan, Z.; Cheng, Ch.F.; He, H.; Klinowski, J. J. Phys Chem. 1995, 99, 10590.
Google Scholar
278Beck, J. S.; Vartuli, J. C. Curr. Opinions Solid State Mater. Sci.1996, 1, 76.
Google Scholar
279Perego, G.; Bellusi, G.; Corno, C.; Taramasso, M.; Buonomo, F.; Exposito, A. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1986, 28, 129.
Google Scholar
280Camblor, M. A.; Corma, A.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1993, 557.
Google Scholar
281Corma, A.; Camblor, M. A.; Esteve, P.; Martínez, A.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Catal. 1994, 145, 151.
Google Scholar
282Corma, A.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 147.
Google Scholar
283Tanev, P. T.; Chibwe, M.; Pinnavaia , T. J. Nature1994, 368, 321.
Google Scholar
284T. J.; Bagshaw, S. A.; Renzo, F.; Fajula, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 2209.
Google Scholar
285Blasco, T.; Corma, A.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 65.
Google Scholar
286Zhang, W.; Fröba, M.; Wang, J. ; Tanev. P. T.; Wong, J.; Pinnavaia, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 9164.
Google Scholar
287Zhang W.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Catal. Lett. 1996, 38, 261.
Google Scholar
288Morey, M.; Davidson, A.; Stucky, G. Microporous Mater. 1996, 6, 99.
Google Scholar
289Reddy, K. M.; Mondrakovski, I.; Sayari, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 1059.
Google Scholar
290Chapus, T.; A. Tuel, A.; Ben Taarit, Y.; Naccache, C. Zeolites1994, 14, 349.
Google Scholar
291Zhao, D.; Goldfarb, D. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 875.
Google Scholar
292Zhao, D.; Goldfarb, D. In Zeolites:  A refined tool for Designing Catalytic Sites; Bonneviot, L., Kaliaguine, S., Eds.; Elsevier B.V.:  Amsterdam, 1995; p 185.
Google Scholar
293Marti, P. E.; Maciejewski, M.; Baixer, A. J. Catal. 1993, 139, 494.
Google Scholar
294Batamack, P.; Bucsi, I.; Molnar, A.; Olah, G. A. Catal. Lett. 1994, 25, 11.
Google Scholar
295Cheung, T. K.; d'Itri, J. L., Gates, B. C. J. Catal. 1995, 151, 464.
Google Scholar
296Iglesia, E.; Soled, S. L.; Kramer, G. M. J. Catal. 1993, 144, 238.
Google Scholar
297Hino, M.; Arata, K. Catal. Lett. 1995, 30, 25.
Google Scholar
298Ciesla, U.; Demuth, D.; Leon, R.; Petroff, P.; Stucky, G.; Unger, K.; Schüth, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun 1994, 1387.
Google Scholar
299Yada, M.; Machida, M.; Kijima, T. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 769.
Google Scholar
300Bagshaw, S. A.; Pinnavaia, T. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1996, 35, 1102.
Google Scholar
301Vandry, F.; Khodabandeh, S.; Davis, M. E. Chem. Mater 1996, 8, 1451.
Google Scholar
302Schüth, F.; Ciesla, H.; Schacht, S. Angew. Chem. 1996, 35, 541.
Google Scholar
303Hudson, M. J.; Knowles, J. A. J. Mater. Chem. 1996, 6, 89.
Google Scholar
304Larsen, G.; Lotero, E.; Nabity, M.; Petrovic, L. M.; Shobe, D. S. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 246.
Google Scholar
305Kim, A.; Bruinsma, P.; Chen, Y.; Wang, L. Q.; Liu, J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1997, 161.
Google Scholar
306Ulagappan, N.; Battaram, N.; Raju, U. N. Rao, C. N. R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 2243.
Google Scholar
307Antonelli, D. M.; Ying, J. Y. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1995, 34, 2014.
Google Scholar
308Ulagappan, N.; Rao, C. N. R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun1996, 1685.
Google Scholar
309Sayari, A.; Moudrakovski, I.; Reddy, J. S. Chem. Mater.1996, 8, 2080.
Google Scholar
310Soghomoniam, V.; Chen, Q.; Haushalter, R. C.; Zubieta, J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1993, 32, 610.
Google Scholar
311Matsubayashi, G.; Otha, S. Chem. Lett. 1990, 787.
Google Scholar
312Matsubayashi, G.; Kakajima, H. Chem. Lett. 1993, 31.
Google Scholar
313Doi, T.; Miyake, T. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 1635.
Google Scholar
314Alfredsson, V.; Anderson, M. W. Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 1141.
Google Scholar
315Schmidt, R.; Stöcker, M.; Ellestad, O. H. A Refined Tool for Designing Catalytic Sites; Bonneviot, L., Kaliaguine, S., Eds.; Elsevier Science B.V.:  Amsterdam, 1995; p 149.
Google Scholar
316Schmidt, R.; Stöcker, M.; Akporiaye, D.; Heggelund Törstad, E.; Olsen, A. Microporous Mater.1995, 5, 1.
Google Scholar
317Ortlam, A.; Rathousky, J.; Schulz-Ekloff, G.; Zukal, A. Microporous Mater.1996, 6, 171.
Google Scholar
318Cheng, Ch. F.; He, H.; Zhou, W.; Klinowski, J. Chem. Phys. Lett.1995, 244, 117.
Google Scholar
319Feuston, B. P.; Higgings, J. B. J. Phys. Chem.1994, 98, 4459.
Google Scholar
320Zhao, X. S.; Lu, G. Q.; Millar, G. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.1996, 35, 2075.
Google Scholar
321Behrens, G.; Stucky, G. D. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.1993, 32, 696.
Google Scholar
322Chenite, A.; Le Page, Y.; Sayari, A. Chem. Mater. 1995, 7, 1015.
Google Scholar
323Garcés, J. M. Adv. Mater. 1996, 8, 434.
Google Scholar
324Branton, P. J.; Hall, P. G.; Sing, K. S. W. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.1993, 1257.
Google Scholar
325Branton, P. J.; Hall, P. G.; Sing, K. S. W.; Reichert, H.; Schüth, F.; Unger, K. K. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.1994, 90, 2965.
Google Scholar
326Ravikovitch, P. I.; Domhnaill, S. C. O.; Neimark, A. V.; Schüth, F.; Unger, K. K. Langmuir1995, 11, 4765.
Google Scholar
327Franke, O.; Schulz-Ekloff, G.; Rathousky, J.; Starck, J.; Zukal, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1993, 724.
Google Scholar
328Komarneni, S.; Menon, V. C.; Pidugu, R. J. Porous Mater. 1996, 3, 115.
Google Scholar
329Llewellyn, P. L.; Grillet, Y.; Schüth, F.; Reichert, H.; Unger, K. K. Microporous Mater.1994, 3, 345.
Google Scholar
330Schmidt, R.; Stöcker, M.; Hansen, E.; Akporiaye, D.; Ellestad, O. H. Microporous Mater.1995, 3, 443.
Google Scholar
331Rathousky, J.; Zukal, A.; Franke, O.; Schulz-Ekloff, G. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1995, 91, 937.
Google Scholar
332Maddox, M. W.; Gubbins, K. E. Proc. Int. Conf. 5th Levan; Douglas, M., Ed.; Kluwer:  Boston, 1995; p 563.
Google Scholar
333Llewellyn, P. L.; Schüth, F.; Grillet, Y.; Rouquerol, F.; Unger, K. K. Langmuir1995, 11, 574.
Google Scholar
334Baker, F. S.; Sing, K. S. W. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1976, 55, 605.
Google Scholar
335Chen, C. Y.; Li, H. X.; Davis, M. E. Microporous Mater.1993, 2, 17.
Google Scholar
336Glaser, R.; Roesky, R.; Boger, T.; Eigenberger, G.; Ernst, S.; Weitkamp, J. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1997, 105.
Google Scholar
337Link, J.; Kaufmann, J.; Schenker, K. Magn. Reson. Imag.1994, 12, 203.
Google Scholar
338Kleinberg, R. L. Nature1994, 351, 467.
Google Scholar
339Patriba, N. S.; Schwartz, L. M.; Partha, P. M. Magn. Reson. Imag.1995, 12, 227.
Google Scholar
340Schmidt, R.; Hansen, E. W.; Stöcker, M.; Akporiaye, D.; Ellestad, O. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 4049.
Google Scholar
341Hansen, E. W.; Schmidt, R.; Stöcker, M.; Akporiaye, D. Microporous Mater.1995, 5, 143.
Google Scholar
342Meiboons, S.; Gill, D. Rev. Sci. Instrum. 1958, 29, 688.
Google Scholar
343Le Doussal, P.; Sen, P. N. Phys. Rev. B1992, 46, 3465.
Google Scholar
344Leherte, L.; Andre, J. M.; Derouane, E. G.; Vercauteren, P. Catal. Today 1991, 10, 177.
Google Scholar
345Sayari, A.; Moudrakovski, I.; Danumah, Ch.; Ratcliffe, Ch. I.; Ripmeester, J. A.; Preston, K. F. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 16373.
Google Scholar
346Millini, R.; Perego, G. Gazz. Chim. Ital. 1996, 126, 133.
Google Scholar
347Blasco, T.; Camblor, M. A.; Corma, A.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 11806.
Google Scholar
348Boccuti, M. R.; Rao, K. M.; Zecchina, A.; Leofanti, G.; Petrini, G. Structure and Reactivity of Surface; Morterra, C., Zecchina, A., Costa, G., Eds.; Elsevier:  Amsterdam, 1989; p 133.
Google Scholar
349Geobaldo, E.; Bordiga, S.; Zecchina, A.; Giamelo, E.; Leofanti, G.; Petrini, G. Catal. Lett. 1992, 16, 109.
Google Scholar
350Petrini, G.; Cesana, A.; De Alberti, G.; Genoni, F.; Leofanti, G.; Padovan, M.; Paparatto, G.; Rofia, P. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 68, 761.
Google Scholar
351Pei, S.; Zajac, G. W.; Kaduk, J. A.; Faber, J.; Boyanov, B. I.; Duck, D.; Fazzini, D.; Morrison, T. I.; Yang, D. S. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 333.
Google Scholar
352Bordiga, S.; Boscherini, F.; Coluccia, S.; Genoni, F.; Lamberti, C.; Leofanti, G.; Marchese, L.; Petrini, G.; Vlaic, G.; Zecchina, A. Catal. Lett. 1994, 26, 195.
Google Scholar
353Rao, P. R. H. P.; Kumar, R.; Ramaswamy, A. V.; Ratnasamy, P. Zeolites 1993, 13, 663.
Google Scholar
354Tuel, A.; Ben Taarit, Y. Zeolites 1994, 14, 18. Sayari, A. Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 1995, 371, 871.
Google Scholar
355Reddy, S. J.; Ping, L.; Sayari, A. Appl. Catal. A1996, 148, 7.
Google Scholar
356Sayari, A. Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 1840.
Google Scholar
357Aufdembrink, B. A.; Chester, A. W.; Herbst, J. A.; Kresge, C. T. U.S. Pantent 5,258,114, 1993.
Google Scholar
358Aguado, J.; Serrano, D. P.; Romero, M. D.; Escola, J. M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun 1996, 725.
Google Scholar
359Corma, A.; Grande, M. S.; Gonzalez-Alfaro, V.; Orchilles, A. V. J. Catal. 1996, 159, 375.
Google Scholar
360Wachter, W. A. U.S. Patent 5,221,648, 1993.
Google Scholar
361Shipper, P. H.; Owen, H.; Herbst, J. A.; Kirker, G. W.; Huss, A., Jr.; Chu, P.; U.S. Patent 5,179,054, 1993.
Google Scholar
362Roos, K.; Liepold, A.; Roschetilowski, W.; Schmidt, R.; Karlsson, A.; Stöcker, M. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 389.
Google Scholar
363Liepold, A.; Roos, K.; Reschetilowski, W. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1996, 51, 3007.
Google Scholar
364Liepold, A.; Roos, K.; Reschetilowski, W.; Esculcas, A. P.; Rocha, J.; Philippou, A.; Anderson, M. W. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 4623.
Google Scholar
365Corma, A.; Rey, F. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
366Le, Q. N.; Thomson, R. T. U.S. Patent 5,232,580, 1993.
Google Scholar
367Feng, X.; Lee, J. S.; Lee, J. W.; Lee, J. Y.; Wei, D.; Haller, G. L. Chem. Eng. J. 1996, 64, 255.
Google Scholar
368Ryoo, R.; Jun, S. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 317.
Google Scholar
369Mc Cullen, S. B.; Vartuli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,156,829, 1992.
Google Scholar
370Constel, N.; Di Renzo, F.; Fajula F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 967.
Google Scholar
371Chen, C. Y.; Xiao, S. Q.; Dahmen, U. Book of abstract; 11th Int. Zeolite Conf. Seul RP63, 1996. Ryoo, R.; Jun, S. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 317.
Google Scholar
372Kresge, Ch. T.; Leonowicz, M. E.; Roth, W. J.; Vartuli, J. C.; Keville, K. M.; Shih, S. S.; Degnan, T. F.; Dwyer, F. G.; Landis, M. E. U.S. Patent 5,183,561, 1993.
Google Scholar
373Shih, S. S. U.S. Patent 5,344,553, 1994.
Google Scholar
374Ward, J. W. Fuel Process. Technol. 1993, 35, 55.
Google Scholar
375Maxwell, I. E. Catal. Today1987, 1, 385.
Google Scholar
376Nat, P. J.; Wogt, E. T. C. WO 94/26847, 1994.
Google Scholar
377Corma, A.; Martínez, A.; Martínez-Soria, V.; Monton, J. B. J. Catal. 1995, 153, 25.
Google Scholar
378Degnan, T. F., Jr.; Keville, K. M.; Landis, M. E.; Marler, D. O.; Mazzone, D. N. U.S. Patent 5,183,557, 1993.
Google Scholar
379Degnan, T. F., Jr.; Keville, K. M.; Landis, M. E.; Marler, D. O.; Mazzone, D. N. U.S. Patent 5,290,744, 1994.
Google Scholar
380Reddy, K. M.; Song, C. S. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 137.
Google Scholar
381Apelian, M. R.; Degnan, T. F., Jr.; Marler, D. O.; Mazzone, D. N. U.S. Patent 5,227,353, 1993.
Google Scholar
382Del Rossi, K. J.; Hatzikos, G. H.; Huss, A., Jr. U.S. Patent 5,256,277, 1993.
Google Scholar
383Girgis, M. J.; Tsao, Y. P. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 386.
Google Scholar
384Marler, D. O.; Mazzone, D. N. U.S. Patent 5,288,395, 1994.
Google Scholar
385Le, Q. N.; Thomson, R. T.; Yokomizo, G. H. U.S. Patent 5,134,241, 1992.
Google Scholar
386Pelrine, B. P.; Schmidt, K. D.; Vartuli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,105,051, 1992.
Google Scholar
387Pelrine, B. P.; Schmidt, K. D.; Vartuli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,270,273, 1993.
Google Scholar
388Kim, J. B.; Imui, T.; Catal. Lett. 1996, 36, 255.
Google Scholar
389Hartmann, M.; Pöppl, A.; Kevan, L. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 101, 801.
Google Scholar
390Bellusi, G.; Perego, C.; Caratti, A.; Peretello, S.; Massara, P. E.; Perego, E. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 85, 84.
Google Scholar
391Imui, T. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1989, 44, 189.
Google Scholar
392Armengol, E.; Cano, M. L.; Corma, A.; García, H.; Navarro, M. T. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 519.
Google Scholar
393Armengol, E.; Corma, A.; García, H.; Primo, J. Appl. Catal. A 1995, 126, 391.
Google Scholar
394Armengol, E.; Corma, A.; García, H.; Primo, J. Appl. Catal. A1997, 149, 411.
Google Scholar
395Le, Q. N. U.S. Patent 5,191,134, 1993.
Google Scholar
396Gunnewegh, E. A.; Gopie, S. S.; Van Bekkum, H. J. Mol. Catal. A:  Chem.1996, 106, 151.
Google Scholar
397Van Bekkum, H.; Hoefnagel, A. J.; Van Koten, M. A.; Gunnewegh, E. A.; Vogt, A.H. G.; Kouwenhoven, H. W. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 83, 379.
Google Scholar
398Kloestra, K. R.; Van Bekkum, H. J. Chem. Res. (S) 1995, 1, 26.
Google Scholar
399Tashiro, M. Synthesis1979, 921.
Google Scholar
400Wojciechowski, B. W.; Corma, A. Catalytic Cracking:  Catalysis, Chemistry and kinetics; Marcel Dekker:  New York, 1986.
Google Scholar
401Venuto, P. B. Microporous Mater.1994, 2, 297.
Google Scholar
402Spagnol, M.; Gilbert, L.; Alby, D. The Roots of organic Development; Desmurs, J. R., Ratton, S., Eds.; Elsevier:  New York, 1996; p 29.
Google Scholar
403Climent, M. J.; Corma, A.; Iborra, S.; Navarro, M. C.; Primo, J. J. Catal. 1996, 161, 786.
Google Scholar
404Dai, L. X.; Hayasaka, R.; Iwaki, Y.; Tatsumi, T. Sogo Shikensho Nenpo (Tokyo Daigaku, Kogakubu)1996, 55, 159.
Google Scholar
405De Goede, A. Th. J. W.; Van der Leij, I. G.; Van der Heijden, A. M.; Van Rantwijk, F. Van; Van Bekkum, H. EP 95, 201,325, 1995.
Google Scholar
406Corma, A.; Guil, R.; Iborra, S.; Primo, J. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
407Godefroi, E. F.; Meers, J. U.S. Patent 3,575,999, 1971.
Google Scholar
408Walker, K. A. M. U.S. Patent 4,150,153, 1979.
Google Scholar
409Bauer, K.; Garbe, D.; Surburg, H. Common fragances and flavors Materials, 2nd ed.; VCH:  Weinheim, 1990.
Google Scholar
410Aucejo, A.; Burguet, M. C.; Corma, A.; Fornés, V. Appl. Catal. 1986, 22, 187.
Google Scholar
411Curtin, T.; Hodnett, B. K. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 78, 535.
Google Scholar
412Sato, H.; Hirose, K. Chem. Lett. 1993, 1765.
Google Scholar
413Singh, P. S.; Bandyopadhyay, R.; Hegole, S. G.; Rao, B. S. Appl. Catal. A 1996, 136, 249.
Google Scholar
414Katada, N.; Tsubouchi, T.; Niwa, M.; Murakami, Y. Appl. Catat. A 1995, 124, 1.
Google Scholar
415Corma, A.; Fornés, V.; Martín, R. M.; Garcia, H.; Primo, J. Appl. Catal. 1990, 59, 237.
Google Scholar
416Barthomeuf, D. Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 521.
Google Scholar
417Kloetstra, K. R.; Van Bekkum, H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 1005.
Google Scholar
418Clerici, M. C. Appl. Catal. 1991, 68, 249.
Google Scholar
419Bellusi, G.; Carati, A.; Clerici, M. G.; Meddinelli, G.; Millini, R. J. Catal. 1992, 133, 220.
Google Scholar
420Huybrechts, D. R. D.; De Bruycher, L.; Jacobs, P. A. Nature1990, 345, 240.
Google Scholar
421Camblor, M. A.; Corma, A.; Martínez, A.; Pérez-Pariente, J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1992, 8.
Google Scholar
422Corma, A.; Esteve, P.; Martínez, A.; Valencia, S. J. Catal. 1995, 152, 18.
Google Scholar
423Blasco, T.; Camblor, M. A.; Corma, A.; Esteve, P.; Martínez, A.; Prieto, C.; Valencia, S. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 2367.
Google Scholar
424Corma, A.; Navarro, M. T.; Pérez-Pariente, J.; Sánchez, F. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 84, 69.
Google Scholar
425Zhang, W.; Wang, J.; Taner, P. T.; Pinnavaia, T. J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 979.
Google Scholar
426Sayari, A.; Karra, V. R.; Reddy, J. S.; Moudrakovski Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 1995, 371, 81.
Google Scholar
427Kulawik, K.; Schulz-Ekkof, G.; Rathousky, J.; Zukal, A. Collect. Czech. Chem. Commun. 1995, 60, 451.
Google Scholar
428Gontier, S.; Tuel, A. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1995, 97, 157.
Google Scholar
429Reddy, J. S.; Sayari, A. Appl. Catal. A 1995, 128, 231.
Google Scholar
430Gontier, S.; Tuel A. J. Catal. 1995, 157, 124.
Google Scholar
431Tonti, S.; Roffia, P.; Cesana, A.; Mategazza, M.; Padovan, M. Eur. Patent 314,147, 1988.
Google Scholar
432Sakane, S.; Tsubakino, T.; Nishiyama, Y.; Ishii, Y. J. Org. Chem. 1993, 58, 3633.
Google Scholar
433Corma, A.; Iglesias, M.; Sanchez, F. Catal. Lett. 1996, 39, 153.
Google Scholar
434Morey, M.; Davidson, A.; Stucky, G. Microporous Mater.1996, 6, 9.
Google Scholar
435Corma, A.; Iglesias, M.; Sanchez, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 1635.
Google Scholar
436Jpn. Kokai Tokkio Koho 59,225,176, 1984.
Google Scholar
437Dutoit, D. C. M.; Schneider, M.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 1995, 153, 165.
Google Scholar
438Hutter, R.; Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 1995, 153, 177.
Google Scholar
439Hutler, R.; Dutoit, D. C. M.; Mallat, T.; Schneider, M.; Baiker, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 163.
Google Scholar
440Klein, S.; Thorimbert, S.; Maier, W. F. J. Catal. 1996, 163, 476.
Google Scholar
441Liu, Z.; Crumbaugh, G. M.; Davis, R. J. J. Catal. 1996, 159, 83.
Google Scholar
442Klein, S.; Martens, J. A.; Parton, R.; Vercruyse, K.; Jacobs, P. A.; Maier, W. F. Catal. Lett. 1996, 38, 209.
Google Scholar
443Hutler, R.; Mallat, T.; Dutoit, D.; Baiker, A. Top. Catal.1996, 3, 421.
Google Scholar
444Rey, F.; Sankar, G.; Maschmeyer, T.; Thomas, J. M.; Bell, R. G.; Greaves, G. N. Top. Catal. 1996, 3, 121.
Google Scholar
445Reddy, J. S.; Sayari, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2231.
Google Scholar
446Das, T. K.; Chandary, K.; Chandwadkar, A. J.; Sivasanker, S. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2495.
Google Scholar
447Abdel-Fattah, T. M.; Pinnavaia, T. J. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 665.
Google Scholar
448Wang, G. R.; Wang, X. Q.; Wang, X. S.; Yu, S. X. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 83, 67.
Google Scholar
449Dongare, M. K.; Sringh, P.; Moghe, P. P.; Ratnasamy, P. Zeolites 1991, 11, 690.
Google Scholar
450Tuel, A.; Gontier, S. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun 1996, 651.
Google Scholar
451Gontier, S.; Tuel, A. Appl. Catal. A 1996, 143, 125.
Google Scholar
452Kresge, Ch.T. ; Marler, D. O.; Rav, G. S.; Rose, B. H. U.S. Patent 5,366,945, 1994.
Google Scholar
453Kozheunikov, I. V.; Sinnema, A.; Jansen, R. J. J.; Pamin, K.; Van Bekkum, H. Catal. Lett.1995, 30, 241.
Google Scholar
454Kozhevnikov, I. V.; Kloetstra, K. R.; Sinnema, A.; Zandbergen, H. W.; Van Bekkum, H. J. Mol. Catal. A 1996, 114, 287.
Google Scholar
455Corma, A.; Jorda, J. L.; Martínez, A.; Rey, F. Manuscript to be published.
Google Scholar
456Brunel, D.; Canvel, A.; Fajula, F.; Di Renzo, F. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1995, 97, 173.
Google Scholar
457Cauvel, A.; Brunel, D.; DiRenzo, F.; Fajula, F. Organic Coatings; Proceedings of 53rd International Meeting of Physical Chemistry; American Institute of Physics:  New York, NY, 1996, Vol. 354, p 477.
Google Scholar
458Cauvel, A.; Renard, G.; Brunel, D. J. Org. Chem. 1997, in press.
Google Scholar
459Junges, U.; Jacobs, W.; Voigt-Martín, I.; Krutzsch, B.; Schuth, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 2283.
Google Scholar
460Ryoo. R.; Ko, Ch. H.; Kim, J. M.; Howe, R. Catal. Lett. 1996, 37, 29.
Google Scholar
461Armor, J. N. Appl. Catal. A 1994, 112, N21.
Google Scholar
462Reddy, K. M.; Song, Ch. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 137.
Google Scholar
463Inui, T.; Kim, J. B.; Seno, M. Catal. Lett. 1994, 29, 271.
Google Scholar
464Corma, A.; Martínez, A.; Martínez-Soria, V. J. Catal. 1997, in press.
Google Scholar
465Stanislaus, A.; Cooper, B. H. Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 1994, 36, 75.
Google Scholar
466Cooper, B. H.; Donnis, B. B. L. Appl. Catal. A. 1996, 137, 203.
Google Scholar
467Schnider, M.; Wildberger, M.; Maciejeswski, M.; Duff, D. G.; Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 625.
Google Scholar
468Bhore, N. A.; Johnson, I. D.; Keville, K. M.; Le, Q. N.; Yokomizo, G. H. U.S. Patent 5,260,501, 1993.
Google Scholar
469Hartmann, M.; Pöppl, A.; Kevan, L. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 101, 801.
Google Scholar
470Hartmann, M.; Pöppl, A.; Kevan, L. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 9906.
Google Scholar
471Beck, J. S.; Socha, R. F.; Shihabi, D. S.; Vartuli, J. C. U.S. Patent 5,143,707, 1992.
Google Scholar
472Maschmeyer, T.; Rey, F.; Sankar, G.; Thomas, J. M. Nature 1995, 378, 159.
Google Scholar
473Burch, R.; Cruise, N.; Gleeson, D.; Tsang, S. Ch. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 951.
Google Scholar
474Morey, M.; Davidson, A.; Eckert, H.; Stucky, G. Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 486.
Google Scholar
475Diaz, J. F.; Bedioni, F.; Briot, E.; Devynck, J.; Balkus, K. J., Jr. Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 1996, 431, 89.
Google Scholar
476Diaz, J. F.; Balkus, K. J., Jr.; Bedioni, F.; Kurshev, V.; Kevan, L. Chem. Mater. 1997, 9, 61.
Google Scholar
477Huber, C.; Moller, K.; Bein, T. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 2619.
Google Scholar
478Jorgensen, K. A. Chem. Rev. 1989, 89, 431.
Google Scholar
479Zhang, W.; Jacobsen, E. N. J. Org. Chem. 1991, 56, 2296.
Google Scholar
480Sutra, P.; Brunel, D. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1996, 2485.
Google Scholar
481Corma, A.; Iglesias, M.; del Pino, C.; Sanchez, F. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1991, 1253.
Google Scholar
482Sabater, M. J.; García, H.; Corma, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1997, in press.
Google Scholar
483Chibwe, M.; Barodawalla, A.; Pinnavaia, T. J. 14th North American Catalysis Meeting of the Catalysis Society Snowbird, UT, June 1995 paper PB107.
Google Scholar
484Balkus, K. J.; Diaz, J. F. Abstracts of papers of the American Chemical Society, 212th National Meeting of the American Chemical Society, Boston, MA, Fall 1996; American Chemical Society:  Washington, DC, 1996; p 231. 2420
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
41
Mentioning
3389
Contrasting
1
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 5103 publications.
Mohammad Fahda, Jawad Fayek, Eddy Dib, Hugo Cruchade, Nathan Pichot, Nourrdine Chaouati, Ludovic Pinard, Petko St. Petkov, Georgi N. Vayssilov, Alvaro Mayoral, Bernhard Witulski, Louwanda Lakiss, Valentin Valtchev. Investigating the Physicochemical Properties of an Extra-large Pore Aluminosilicate ZEO-1. Chemistry of Materials 2024, 36 (11) , 5405-5421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.4c00186
Yuki Fujikawa, Tatsushi Yoshioka, Kenta Iyoki, Takahiro Ohkubo, Tatsuya Okubo, Toru Wakihara. Simultaneous Control of Aluminum Atoms and Defects in the MOR Zeolite Framework by Postsynthetic Treatments. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2024, 128 (22) , 9331-9344. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.4c01659
Nawras Abidi, Yacine Boudjema, Céline Chizallet, Kim Larmier. Investigating Closed and Open Site Stability of Sn-, Ti-, Zr-, and Hf-Beta Zeolites: A Comprehensive Periodic DFT Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2024, 128 (20) , 8257-8269. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.4c02371
Meng-Nan Liu, Ben Liang, Huiyong Chen, Chengyi Dai, Qun-Xing Luo, Long Xu, Jianbo Zhang, Xiaoxun Ma, Qing-Qing Hao. Nanoplatelet Mordenite Zeolite with a Controlled Aspect Ratio: Implications for the Alkylation of Benzene with Benzyl Alcohol. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2024, 7 (7) , 7821-7835. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.4c00434
Masood S Alivand, Umma Habiba, Mohsen Ghasemian, Saeed Askari, Paul A. Webley. Amine-Functionalized Meso-Macroporous Polymers for Efficient CO2 Capture from Ambient Air. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2024, 16 (14) , 17411-17421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c17126
Yunlei Chen, Wende Hu, Xin Li, Chuanming Wang, Weimin Yang. Machine Learning Prediction of Transition-State Energies in Small-Pore Zeolites Combining Acidity and Topology Descriptors. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2024, 128 (9) , 3770-3779. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.4c00082
Nan Wang, Xueping Li, Xiaoyan Lian, Qian Zhuang, Jialu Wang, Jin Li, Huaming Qian, Kangkang Miao, Yan Wang, Xiaolin Luo, Guodong Feng. Acetate Ions Facilitated Immobilization of Highly Dispersed Transition Metal Oxide Nanoclusters in Mesoporous Silica. Inorganic Chemistry 2024, 63 (9) , 4393-4403. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.4c00024
Diego Zapater, Javier Lasobras, Naydu Zambrano, Idoia Hita, Pedro Castaño, Jaime Soler, Javier Herguido, Miguel Menéndez. Effect of Thermal, Acid, and Alkaline Treatments over SAPO-34 and Its Agglomerated Catalysts: Property Modification and Methanol-to-Olefin Reaction Performance. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2024, 63 (8) , 3586-3599. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c03956
Susung Lee, Younghwan Park, Minkee Choi. Cooperative Interplay of Micropores/Mesopores of Hierarchical Zeolite in Chemical Production. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (3) , 2031-2048. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c05170
Tongkun Wang, Song Luo, Muhammad Shah, Long Qi, Geoffrey A. Tompsett, Michael T. Timko, Scott M. Auerbach, Wei Fan. Removing Fluoride from Double Four-Membered Rings Yielding Defect-Free Zeolites under Mild Conditions Using Ozone. Chemistry of Materials 2024, 36 (2) , 870-880. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.3c02695
Surya Pratap S. Solanki, Mugdha Ambast, Abhay Gupta, Christopher Paolucci, Michael P. Harold, Lars C. Grabow. Complete Mechanism for NOx Adsorption and Release on Atomically Dispersed Palladium in Pd-CHA. ACS ES&T Engineering 2024, 4 (1) , 209-220. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestengg.3c00315
Reum N. Scott, Claire E. Frank, Maya M. Martirossyan, Phillip J. Milner, Julia Dshemuchadse. Two-Dimensional Metal–Organic Framework Self-Assembly and Defect Engineering Studied via Coarse-Grained Simulations. Chemistry of Materials 2023, 35 (23) , 10050-10059. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.3c02049
Sungmin Kim, Nicholas R. Jaegers, Wenda Hu, Jian Zhi Hu, Feng Chen, Qiang Liu, Donald M. Camaioni, Miroslaw A. Derewinski, Oliver Y. Gutiérrez, Yue Liu, Johannes A. Lercher. Impact of the Environment of BEA-Type Zeolites for Sorption of Water and Cyclohexanol. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (48) , 23390-23399. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c05405
Yanhua Wang, Chengzheng Tong, Qingling Liu, Rui Han, Caixia Liu. Intergrowth Zeolites, Synthesis, Characterization, and Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (19) , 11664-11721. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.3c00373
Jie Ying, Yuxuan Xiao, Jiangbo Chen, Zhi-Yi Hu, Ge Tian, Gustaaf Van Tendeloo, Yuexing Zhang, Mark D. Symes, Christoph Janiak, Xiao-Yu Yang. Fractal Design of Hierarchical PtPd with Enhanced Exposed Surface Atoms for Highly Catalytic Activity and Stability. Nano Letters 2023, 23 (16) , 7371-7378. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c01190
Xiangchen Kong, Chao Liu, Yuyang Fan, Ming Li, Rui Xiao. Depolymerization of Methylene Linkage in Condensed Lignin with Commercial Zeolite in Water. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (15) , 10048-10055. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02384
Matthias Ermer, Rebecca Reber, Hasan Baser, Marcus Fischer, Wilhelm Schwieger, Martin Hartmann. Perspective on the Use of Ultrasonic Monitoring for In Situ Diagnostics of Zeolite and MOF Crystallization. Crystal Growth & Design 2023, 23 (8) , 5355-5367. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c00260
Le Xu, Alexander Okrut, Thomas Rea, Kaustav Chaudhuri, Jinyi Han, Alexander Kuperman, Alexander Katz. Control of Zeta Potential of Hierarchical Mesoporous Zeolite Y via Inorganic Surface Modification without Micropore Blockage and Phase Separation. Crystal Growth & Design 2023, 23 (8) , 5601-5613. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c00261
Sandamini H. Alahakoon, Mathew J. Willans, Yining Huang. In Situ Multinuclear Magic-Angle Spinning NMR: Monitoring Crystallization of Molecular Sieve AlPO4-11 in Real Time. JACS Au 2023, 3 (6) , 1670-1683. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.3c00109
Jiaxin Wu, Ruizhi Chu, Xianliang Meng, Bangming Yang, Pengcheng Li, Mingzhi Dai, Guoguang Wu, Xiao Li, Xiaofeng Jiang, Weisong Li. Controlling the SAPO-34 Particle Size to Enhance Reaction-Diffusion Behavior for Improving Catalytic Efficiency in the MTO Reaction. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (22) , 8684-8695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c00555
Md. Shahadat Hossain, T. Dwyer Stuart, Bandaru V. Ramarao, Charlene C. VanLeuven, Mario Wriedt, David Kiemle, Michael Satchwell, Deepak Kumar. Investigation into Cationic Surfactants and Polyelectrolyte-Coated β-Zeolites for Rapid and High-Capacity Adsorption of Short- and Long-Chain PFAS. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (21) , 8373-8384. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c00468
Leandro Duarte de Almeida, Selma F. Bazan, Pedro L. Gastelois, Marco A. S. Garcia, Guilherme F. de Lima, Vinícius W. Faria, Marco A. Fraga, Anderson G. M. da Silva, Patricia A. Robles-Azocar. Correlating O-Vacancy and Hydrogen Spillover with Activity and Selectivity in Furfural Hydrogenation Using Nanocatalysts Comprised of Ru Nanoparticles Supported on TiO2–SiO2. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2023, 6 (9) , 7763-7774. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.3c00767
Céline Chizallet, Christophe Bouchy, Kim Larmier, Gerhard Pirngruber. Molecular Views on Mechanisms of Brønsted Acid-Catalyzed Reactions in Zeolites. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 6107-6196. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00896
Manish Rawat, Diwan S. Rawat. Mesoporous Copper–Magnesium Oxide Hybrid Nanocatalyzed Synthesis of 3-Substituted Isocoumarins from 2-Iodobenzoic Acid and Terminal Alkyne under Green Conditions. ACS Omega 2023, 8 (18) , 16263-16272. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c00710
Meiqi Gao, Lili Wang, Yang Yang, Yafei Sun, Xiaorui Zhao, Ying Wan. Metal and Metal Oxide Supported on Ordered Mesoporous Carbon as Heterogeneous Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4060-4090. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05894
Haliey Balcom, Alexander J. Hoffman, Huston Locht, David Hibbitts. Brønsted Acid Strength Does Not Change for Bulk and External Sites of MFI Except for Al Substitution Where Silanol Groups Form. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4470-4487. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00076
Alessia Marino, Enrico Catizzone, Massimo Migliori, Giorgia Ferrarelli, Alfredo Aloise, Donatella Chillè, Georgia Papanikolaou, Paola Lanzafame, Siglinda Perathoner, Gabriele Centi, Girolamo Giordano. Hydrothermal Synthesis and Catalytic Assessment of High-Silica (B,Fe)-beta Zeolites. Crystal Growth & Design 2023, 23 (4) , 2988-3001. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c00085
Tong Liu, Yi Zhao, Min Song, Xinghan Pang, Xiaofei Shi, Jingjing Jia, Lifeng Chi, Guang Lu. Ordered Macro–Microporous Single Crystals of Covalent Organic Frameworks with Efficient Sorption of Iodine. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (4) , 2544-2552. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c12284
S. Dutta, A. Galarneau, D. Minoux, C. Aquino, J. P. Dath, F. Guenneau, B. Coasne. Molecular Diffusion in Hierarchical Zeolites with Ordered Mesoporosity: Pulsed Field Gradient Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Combined with Thermodynamic Modeling. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (3) , 1548-1559. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04868
Pengcheng Xu, Xinyu Li, Yufan Zhou, Ying Chen, Xuefeng Wang, Hao Jia, Ming Li, Haitao Yu, Xinxin Li. Microcantilever-Based In Situ Temperature-Programmed Desorption (TPD) Technique. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2023, 14 (2) , 567-575. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c02836
Yi Ji, Zhengmao Liu, Zhenchao Zhao, Pan Gao, Xinhe Bao, Kuizhi Chen, Guangjin Hou. Untangling Framework Confinements: A Dynamical Study on Bulky Aromatic Molecules in MFI Zeolites. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (24) , 15288-15297. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04646
Zhongwen Dong, Wenjun Chen, Keqing Xu, Yue Liu, Jing Wu, Fan Zhang. Understanding the Structure–Activity Relationships in Catalytic Conversion of Polyolefin Plastics by Zeolite-Based Catalysts: A Critical Review. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (24) , 14882-14901. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04915
Matteo Boventi, Michele Mauri, Kerstin Golker, Jesper G. Wiklander, Ian A. Nicholls, Roberto Simonutti. Porosity of Molecularly Imprinted Polymers Investigated by 129Xe NMR Spectroscopy. ACS Applied Polymer Materials 2022, 4 (12) , 8740-8749. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsapm.2c01084
Mazlina Musa, Daniel M. Dawson, Russell E. Morris, Sharon E. Ashbrook. Synthesis of FeAPO-34 Molecular Sieve under Ionothermal Condition. Inorganic Chemistry 2022, 61 (42) , 16685-16692. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c02352
Min Liu, Lianhai Zu, Zachary M. Hudson. Mechanistic Principles for Engineering Hierarchical Porous Metal–Organic Frameworks. ACS Nano 2022, 16 (9) , 13573-13594. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c06587
K. A. Irshad, N. R. Sanjay Kumar, M. Mahima Kumar, Hrudananda Jena. Structural Stability and Phase Transitions in Zeolite A: An In Situ High Pressure–High Temperature Investigation. Inorganic Chemistry 2022, 61 (35) , 13792-13801. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c01626
Bin Gao, Bin Qiu, Mingji Zheng, Zhankai Liu, Wen-Duo Lu, Qiang Wang, Jun Xu, Feng Deng, An-Hui Lu. Dynamic Self-Dispersion of Aggregated Boron Clusters into Stable Oligomeric Boron Species on MFI Zeolite Nanosheets under Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7368-7376. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01622
Mercedes Boronat, Maria J. Climent, Patricia Concepción, Urbano Díaz, Hermenegildo García, Sara Iborra, Antonio Leyva-Pérez, Lichen Liu, Agustin Martínez, Cristina Martínez, Manuel Moliner, Joaquín Pérez-Pariente, Fernando Rey, Enrique Sastre, Pedro Serna, Susana Valencia. A Career in Catalysis: Avelino Corma. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7054-7123. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01043
Phuoc Hoang Ho, Dawei Yao, Derek Creaser, Louise Olsson. Advantages of High-Siliceous Zeolites in the Reactivity and Stability of Diesel Oxidation Catalysts. ACS Engineering Au 2022, 2 (3) , 219-235. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsengineeringau.1c00035
Wenjuan Yan, Zhenyang Wang, Chen Luo, Xingfan Xia, Zhifei Liu, Yuming Zhao, Feng Du, Xin Jin. Opportunities and Emerging Challenges of the Heterogeneous Metal-Based Catalysts for Vegetable Oil Epoxidation. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2022, 10 (23) , 7426-7446. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c00617
Kun Lan, Dongyuan Zhao. Functional Ordered Mesoporous Materials: Present and Future. Nano Letters 2022, 22 (8) , 3177-3179. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c00902
Xiao-Jing Wang, Cuiling Hou, Cheng-Bin Yu, Ziyang Xu, Yiwen Li, Qiang Tian, Nan Xia, Na Li, Li-Tang Yan, Wei Wang. Precise Self-assembly of Janus Pyramid Heteroclusters into Core-Corona Nanodots and Nanodot Supracrystals: Implications for the Construction of Virus-like Particles and Nanomaterials. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (4) , 5558-5568. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c00530
Weijiong Dai, Lina Zhang, Runze Liu, Guangjun Wu, Naijia Guan, Landong Li. Plate-Like ZSM-5 Zeolites as Robust Catalysts for the Cracking of Hydrocarbons. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2022, 14 (9) , 11415-11424. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c23614
Weifeng Chu, Shenglin Liu, Wenjie Xin, Yanan Wang, Zhenni Liu, Chuanyu Yang, Yuzhong Wang, Longya Xu, Xiujie Li, Xiangxue Zhu. Effect of Binder Type on MWW-Based Catalysts for the Liquid-Phase Alkylation Reaction of Benzene with Ethylene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (7) , 2693-2700. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c04517
Rick W. Dorn, Patrick M. Heintz, Ivan Hung, Kuizhi Chen, Jin-Su Oh, Tae-Hoon Kim, Lin Zhou, Zhehong Gan, Wenyu Huang, Aaron J. Rossini. Atomic-Level Structure of Mesoporous Hexagonal Boron Nitride Determined by High-Resolution Solid-State Multinuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and Density Functional Theory Calculations. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (4) , 1649-1665. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c03791
Song Luo, Tongkun Wang, Long Qi, Geoffrey A. Tompsett, Michael T. Timko, Scott M. Auerbach, Wei Fan. Titrating Controlled Defects into Si-LTA Zeolite Crystals Using Multiple Organic Structure-Directing Agents. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (4) , 1789-1799. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c04036
Ahmed Sadeq Al-Fatesh, Rawesh Kumar, Samsudeen Olajide Kasim, Ahmed Aidid Ibrahim, Anis Hamza Fakeeha, Ahmed Elhag Abasaeed, Hanan Atia, Udo Armbruster, Carsten Kreyenschulte, Henrik Lund, Stephan Bartling, Yahya Ahmed Mohammed, Yousef Abdulrahman Albaqmaa, Mahmud Sofiu Lanre, Mayankkumar Lakshmanbhai Chaudhary, Fahad Almubaddel, Biswajit Chowdhury. Effect of Cerium Promoters on an MCM-41-Supported Nickel Catalyst in Dry Reforming of Methane. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (1) , 164-174. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c03163
Qiang Deng, Xiang Li, Ruijie Gao, Jun Wang, Zheling Zeng, Ji-Jun Zou, Shuguang Deng, Shik Chi Edman Tsang. Hydrogen-Catalyzed Acid Transformation for the Hydration of Alkenes and Epoxy Alkanes over Co–N Frustrated Lewis Pair Surfaces. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (50) , 21294-21301. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c08259
Debdas Dhabal, Andressa A. Bertolazzo, Valeria Molinero. Coarse-Grained Model for the Hydrothermal Synthesis of Zeolites. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (48) , 26857-26868. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c07916
Lehlohonolo E. Mphuthi, Elizabeth Erasmus, Ernst H. G. Langner. Metal Exchange of ZIF-8 and ZIF-67 Nanoparticles with Fe(II) for Enhanced Photocatalytic Performance. ACS Omega 2021, 6 (47) , 31632-31645. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.1c04142
Kachaporn Saenluang, Wanmai Srisuwanno, Saros Salakhum, Chadatip Rodaum, Pannida Dugkhuntod, Chularat Wattanakit. Nanoporous Sn-Substituted ZSM-48 Nanostructures for Glucose Isomerization. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2021, 4 (11) , 11661-11673. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.1c02230
Peng Liu, Qian Liu, Donghai Mei. Dealumination of the H-BEA Zeolite via the SN2 Mechanism: A Theoretical Investigation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (44) , 24613-24621. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c06847
Riku Sato, Zhendong Liu, Ce Peng, Che Tan, Peidong Hu, Jie Zhu, Masamori Takemura, Yasuo Yonezawa, Hiroki Yamada, Akira Endo, Javier García-Martínez, Tatsuya Okubo, Toru Wakihara. Engineering Mesopore Formation in Hierarchical Zeolites under High Hydrostatic Pressure. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (21) , 8440-8446. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c02800
Preeti Sahu, Adarsh Sahu, Ayyamperumal Sakthivel. Cyclocondensation of Anthranilamide with Aldehydes on Gallium-Containing MCM-22 Zeolite Materials. ACS Omega 2021, 6 (43) , 28828-28837. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.1c03704
Steven J. Roeters, Rolf Mertig, Helmut Lutz, Adrienne Roehrich, Gary Drobny, Tobias Weidner. Backbone Structure of Diatom Silaffin Peptide R5 in Biosilica Determined by Combining Solid-State NMR with Theoretical Sum-Frequency Generation Spectra. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (39) , 9657-9661. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c02786
Mingming Peng, Zhi-Qiang Wang, Ju Huang, Ming Shen, Jingang Jiang, Hao Xu, Yanhang Ma, Bingwen Hu, Xue-Qing Gong, Hai-Hong Wu, Peng Wu. Two Coexisting Forms of Simple Molecules for Directing Sesqui-Unit-Cell Zeolite Nanosheets. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (17) , 6934-6941. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01876
Song Luo, Tongkun Wang, Jason Gulbinski, Long Qi, Geoffrey A. Tompsett, Michael T. Timko, Scott M. Auerbach, Wei Fan. Identifying Order and Disorder in Double Four-Membered Rings via Raman Spectroscopy during Crystallization of LTA Zeolite. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (17) , 6794-6803. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01420
Juliana Pimenta Lorenti, Eduardo Scolari, Natalia M. Cabral, Chiara Bisio, Jean Marcel R. Gallo. Isomerization and Epimerization of Glucose Catalyzed by Sn-Containing Mesoporous Silica. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (35) , 12821-12833. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c01781
Qing-Yun Guo, Xiao-Yun Yan, Wei Zhang, Xing-Han Li, Yongsheng Xu, Shuqi Dai, Yuchu Liu, Bo-xing Zhang, Xueyan Feng, Jiafu Yin, Di Han, Jiahao Huang, Zebin Su, Tong Liu, Mingjun Huang, Chih-Hao Hsu, Stephen Z. D. Cheng. Ordered Mesoporous Silica Pyrolyzed from Single-Source Self-Assembled Organic–Inorganic Giant Surfactants. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (33) , 12935-12942. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c05356
Ching-Tien Chen, Kenta Iyoki, Peidong Hu, Hiroki Yamada, Koji Ohara, Sohei Sukenaga, Mariko Ando, Hiroyuki Shibata, Tatsuya Okubo, Toru Wakihara. Reaction Kinetics Regulated Formation of Short-Range Order in an Amorphous Matrix during Zeolite Crystallization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (29) , 10986-10997. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c03351
Zhen Chen, Xuguang Liu, Yunkai Yu, Zhimou Tang, Jia Wang, Dongxu Liu, Nan Fang, Yuxia Lin, Yueming Liu, Mingyuan He. Gripper-like Silicon Species for Efficient Synthesis of Crystalline Metallosilicates with Spatially Homogeneous Heteroatoms in the Framework. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (13) , 4988-5001. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c00779
Xiangcheng Li, Xiaohong Yuan, Guopeng Xia, Jun Liang, Chuang Liu, Yucai Qin, Zhendong Wang, Weimin Yang. Postsynthesis of Delaminated MWW-Type Stannosilicate as a Robust Catalyst for Sugar Conversion to Methyl Lactate. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (22) , 8027-8034. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c00471
Yongxiang Wang, Shaohui Xin, Yueying Chu, Jun Xu, Guodong Qi, Qiang Wang, Qinghua Xia, Feng Deng. Influence of Trimethylphosphine Oxide Loading on the Measurement of Zeolite Acidity by Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (17) , 9497-9506. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c01789
Yanfei Xu, Guangyuan Ma, Jingyang Bai, Yixiong Du, Chuan Qin, Mingyue Ding. Yolk@Shell FeMn@Hollow HZSM-5 Nanoreactor for Directly Converting Syngas to Aromatics. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (8) , 4476-4485. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05658
Zhen-Yao Dai, Zhong-Sheng Nong, Shun Song, Pu-Sheng Wang. Asymmetric Photocatalytic C(sp3)–H Bond Addition to α-Substituted Acrylates. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (8) , 3157-3161. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c00801
Lu Peng, Yong Peng, Ana Primo, Hermenegildo García. Porous Graphitic Carbons Containing Nitrogen by Structuration of Chitosan with Pluronic P123. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (11) , 13499-13507. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c19463
Ting Xiao, Mizuho Yabushita, Toshiki Nishitoba, Ryota Osuga, Motohiro Yoshida, Masaki Matsubara, Sachiko Maki, Kiyoshi Kanie, Toshiyuki Yokoi, Wenbin Cao, Atsushi Muramatsu. Organic Structure-Directing Agent-Free Synthesis of Mordenite-Type Zeolites Driven by Al-Rich Amorphous Aluminosilicates. ACS Omega 2021, 6 (8) , 5176-5182. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c05059
Florian Jonas, Bénédicte Lebeau, Stéphane Siffert, Laure Michelin, Christophe Poupin, Renaud Cousin, Ludovic Josien, Loïc Vidal, Martine Mallet, Pierrick Gaudin, Jean-Luc Blin. Nanoporous CeO2–ZrO2 Oxides for Oxidation of Volatile Organic Compounds. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2021, 4 (2) , 1786-1797. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c03212
Liu Qu, Lei Yang, Yueyuan Li, Xiang Ren, Huan Wang, Dawei Fan, Xueying Wang, Qin Wei, Huangxian Ju. Dual-Signaling Electrochemical Ratiometric Method for Competitive Immunoassay of CYFRA21-1 Based on Urchin-like Fe3O4@PDA-Ag and Ni3Si2O5(OH)4-Au Absorbed Methylene Blue Nanotubes. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (4) , 5795-5802. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c20049
Shiyu Wu, Yufu Yi, Shengliang Liao, Hongyan Si, Yuling Yang, Guorong Fan, Peng Wang. Synthesis and Shape-Selective Catalytic Application of Ordered Cubic Ia3̅d Supermicroporous Materials Templated by Rosin-Derived Quaternary Ammonium Salt with a Hydroxyl Radical in the Headgroup. Langmuir 2021, 37 (2) , 957-968. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c03356
Kai Bian, Anfeng Zhang, Hong Yang, Benhan Fan, Shutao Xu, Xinwen Guo, Chunshan Song. Synthesis and Characterization of Fe-Substituted ZSM-5 Zeolite and Its Catalytic Performance for Alkylation of Benzene with Dilute Ethylene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (52) , 22413-22421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01909
Babar Ali, Xiaocheng Lan, Muhammad Tahir Arslan, Huanjun Wang, Syed Zulfiqar Ali Gilani, Shiqing Wang, Tiefeng Wang. Self-Pillared MFI-Type Zeolite Nanosheets as Selective Catalysts for Glycerol Dehydration to Acrolein. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (11) , 10966-10977. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c02211
Wei Zhang, Bin Li, Yong-Gang Sun, An-Min Cao, Li-Jun Wan. Spherical Mesoporous Metal Oxides with Tunable Orientation Enabled by Growth Kinetics Control. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (42) , 17897-17902. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07938
Megan C. Wasson, Xuan Zhang, Ken-ichi Otake, Andrew S. Rosen, Selim Alayoglu, Matthew D. Krzyaniak, Zhijie Chen, Louis R. Redfern, Lee Robison, Florencia A. Son, Yongwei Chen, Timur Islamoglu, Justin M. Notestein, Randall Q. Snurr, Michael R. Wasielewski, Omar K. Farha. Supramolecular Porous Assemblies of Atomically Precise Catalytically Active Cerium-Based Clusters. Chemistry of Materials 2020, 32 (19) , 8522-8529. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c02740
E. Iyyappan, S. J. Samuel Justin, P. Wilson, Arumugam Palaniappan. Nanoscale Hydroxyapatite for Electrochemical Sensing of Uric Acid: Roles of Mesopore Volume and Surface Acidity. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (8) , 7761-7773. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c01322
Angela M. Norton, Donghun Kim, Weiqing Zheng, Nusnin Akter, Yixin Xu, Samuel A. Tenney, Dionisios G. Vlachos, Michael Tsapatsis, J. Anibal Boscoboinik. Reversible Formation of Silanol Groups in Two-Dimensional Siliceous Nanomaterials under Mild Hydrothermal Conditions. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (33) , 18045-18053. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c03875
Manickam Selvaraj, Mohammed A. Assiri. Highly Selective Synthesis of Octahydroaminoacridine over Mesoporous ZnAlMCM-41 Catalysts. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (33) , 14703-14709. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c02283
H. Olivier-Bourbigou, P. A. R. Breuil, L. Magna, T. Michel, M. Fernandez Espada Pastor, D. Delcroix. Nickel Catalyzed Olefin Oligomerization and Dimerization. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (15) , 7919-7983. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00076
Christopher Rzepa, Daniel W. Siderius, Harold W. Hatch, Vincent K. Shen, Srinivas Rangarajan, Jeetain Mittal. Computational Investigation of Correlations in Adsorbate Entropy for Pure-Silica Zeolite Adsorbents. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (30) , 16350-16361. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c02671
Jinghui Lyu, Lei Niu, Fanglie Shen, Jun Wei, Yizhi Xiang, Zhongjing Yu, Guofu Zhang, Chengrong Ding, Yining Huang, Xiaonian Li. In Situ Hydrogen Peroxide Production for Selective Oxidation of Benzyl Alcohol over a Pd@Hierarchical Titanium Silicalite Catalyst. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (27) , 16865-16874. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c02065
Niloufar Nokhodiyan Isfahani, Mehrnaz Bahadori, Afsaneh Marandi, Shahram Tangestaninejad, Majid Moghadam, Valiollah Mirkhani, Masoud Beheshti, Niloufar Afzali. Ionic Liquid Modification of Hierarchical ZSM-5 for Solvent-Free Insertion of CO2 to Epoxides. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (26) , 11970-11978. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01173
Fen Zhang, Wei Chen, Qinming Wu, Zhichao Yang, Liang Wang, Xiangju Meng, Bingsen Zhang, Anmin Zheng, Feng Deng, Chenguang Liu, Feng-Shou Xiao. Theoretical Prediction from Classical Equations and Rational Synthesis of Ultrafine LTL Zeolite Nanocrystals. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (25) , 13819-13824. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c04315
Su-Kyung Lee, Hongjun Park, Ji Woong Yoon, Kiwoong Kim, Sung June Cho, Guillaume Maurin, Ryong Ryoo, Jong-San Chang. Microporous 3D Graphene-like Zeolite-Templated Carbons for Preferential Adsorption of Ethane. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (25) , 28484-28495. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c04228
Ching-Jung Chang, Chin-Han Chen, Jyh-Fu Lee, Tawan Sooknoi, Yu-Chuan Lin. Ga-Supported MFI Zeolites Synthesized Using Carbon Nanotubes Containing Gallium Oxide Nanoparticles on Exterior Walls and in Interior Channels as Hard Templates for Methanol Aromatization. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (24) , 11177-11186. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01628
Linchao Mu, Yichong Wang, William A. Tarpeh. Validation and Mechanism of a Low-Cost Graphite Carbon Electrode for Electrochemical Brine Valorization. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2020, 8 (23) , 8648-8654. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c01485
Jeroen Kint, Felix Mattelaer, Sofie S. T. Vandenbroucke, Arbresha Muriqi, Matthias M. Minjauw, Mikko Nisula, Philippe M. Vereecken, Michael Nolan, Jolien Dendooven, Christophe Detavernier. Molecular Layer Deposition of “Magnesicone”, a Magnesium-based Hybrid Material. Chemistry of Materials 2020, 32 (11) , 4451-4466. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b05116
Shixiang Feng, Jun Yi, Hiroki Miura, Naoki Nakatani, Masahiko Hada, Tetsuya Shishido. Experimental and Theoretical Investigation of the Role of Bismuth in Promoting the Selective Oxidation of Glycerol over Supported Pt–Bi Catalyst under Mild Conditions. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (11) , 6071-6083. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00974
Minzhe Li, Muhammad Asif Nawaz, Guiyao Song, Waqas Qamar Zaman, Dianhua Liu. Influential Role of Elemental Migration in a Composite Iron–Zeolite Catalyst for the Synthesis of Aromatics from Syngas. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (19) , 9043-9054. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01282
Junyan Li, Chuanqi Zhang, Jiuxing Jiang, Jihong Yu, Osamu Terasaki, Alvaro Mayoral. Structure Solution and Defect Analysis of an Extra-Large Pore Zeolite with UTL Topology by Electron Microscopy. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2020, 11 (9) , 3350-3356. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c00551
Saman Hosseinpour, Steven J. Roeters, Mischa Bonn, Wolfgang Peukert, Sander Woutersen, Tobias Weidner. Structure and Dynamics of Interfacial Peptides and Proteins from Vibrational Sum-Frequency Generation Spectroscopy. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (7) , 3420-3465. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00410
Jean-François Dechézelles, Carmen Ciotonea, Cezar Catrinescu, Adrian Ungureanu, Sébastien Royer, Véronique Nardello-Rataj. Emulsions Stabilized with Alumina-Functionalized Mesoporous Silica Particles. Langmuir 2020, 36 (12) , 3212-3220. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.9b03900
Evgeny Naranov, Oleg Golubev, Konstantin Zanaveskin, Alena Guseva, Pavel Nikulshin, Yury Kolyagin, Anton Maximov, Eduard Karakhanov. Ni-Based Nanoparticles on Mesoporous Silica Supports for Single-Stage Arsenic and Chlorine Removal during Diesel Fraction Hydrotreating. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (12) , 6611-6618. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b04373
Jin-Han Guo, Xiao-Yu Zhang, Xiao-Yao Dao, Wei-Yin Sun. Nanoporous Metal–Organic Framework-Based Ellipsoidal Nanoparticles for the Catalytic Electroreduction of CO2. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (3) , 2625-2635. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c00007
Yanfei Xu, Jie Wang, Guangyuan Ma, Jianli Zhang, Mingyue Ding. Hollow Zeolite Nanoparticles Combined with Fe3O4@MnO2 Tandem Catalyst for Converting Syngas to Aromatics-Rich Gasoline. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (3) , 2857-2866. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c00123
Ting Wang, Chengguang Yang, Shenggang Li, Gan Yu, Ziyu Liu, Hui Wang, Peng Gao, Yuhan Sun. Solvent-Free Synthesis of Mg-Incorporated Nanocrystalline SAPO-34 Zeolites via Natural Clay for Chloromethane-to-Olefin Conversion. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2020, 8 (10) , 4185-4193. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b07129
Omer Tayfuroglu, Abdulkadir Kocak, Yunus Zorlu. In Silico Investigation into H2 Uptake in MOFs: Combined Text/Data Mining and Structural Calculations. Langmuir 2020, 36 (1) , 119-129. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.9b03618
Federico Catalano, Pier Paolo Pompa. Design Rules for Mesoporous Silica toward the Nanosize: A Systematic Study. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (50) , 47237-47246. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b16135
Elham Khoramzadeh, Masoud Mofarahi, Chang-Ha Lee. Equilibrium Adsorption Study of CO2 and N2 on Synthesized Zeolites 13X, 4A, 5A, and Beta. Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data 2019, 64 (12) , 5648-5664. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jced.9b00690
Cong Lin, Jian Li, Yan Wang, Diming Xu, Fuhui Liao, Jianhua Lin, Feng Pan, Junliang Sun. DMAP-Induced Gallium Phosphites with Different Dimensionality. Crystal Growth & Design 2019, 19 (11) , 6011-6016. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.9b00725
Aleksei Bolshakov, Mia van Diepen, Arno J. F. van Hoof, Douglas E. Romero Hidalgo, Nikolay Kosinov, Emiel J. M. Hensen. Hierarchically Porous (Alumino)Silicates Prepared by an Imidazole-Based Surfactant and Their Application in Acid-Catalyzed Reactions. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (43) , 40151-40162. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b15593
Load more citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
Chemical Reviews
Cite this: Chem. Rev. 1997, 97, 6, 2373–2420
https://doi.org/10.1021/cr960406n
Published October 1, 1997
Copyright © 1997 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
29k
Altmetric
19
Citations
5103
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Zeolite and molecular sieve synthesis
May 1, 2002Chemistry of Materials
Mark E. Davis and Raul F. Lobo
The Hydrothermal Synthesis of Zeolites:  History and Development from the Earliest Days to the Present Time
February 21, 2003Chemical Reviews
Colin S. Cundy and Paul A. Cox
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Figure 1 Schematic representation of mesopores formed in steamed zeolites.
Figure 2 Pore volume in the mesoporous region for pores between 40 and 120 Å, of zeolites USY dealuminated by steam (□) and by SiCl4 (▪).
Figure 3 (a) Cracking of n-heptane on USY dealuminated by SiCl4 (·), and by steam (○) and (b) cracking of gas oil on USY dealuminated by steam (○), and by SiCl4 (·).
Figure 4 Schematic structures of montmorillonite (M) and rectorite (R). The T−O−T layer sequence (T = tetrahedral, O = octahedral) is represented by trapezoids and rectangles. Exchangeable and nonexchangeable charge compensating cations are represented by open and solid circles, respectively.
Figure 5 IR spectra of pyridine adsorbed on montmorillonite. The bands at 1545 and 1450 cm-1 correspond to pyridine adsorbed on Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, respectively.
Figure 6 Variation of the intensity of the 3640−3620 cm-1 band as a function of the temperature of treatment:  (1) Al-pillared montmorillonite; (2) NH4-montmorillonite; (3) Al-pillared beidellite; and (4) NH4-beidellite.
Figure 7 Intensity of the pyridinium band (1540 cm-1) at different calcination temperatures:  (·) Al-pillared beidellite and (○) Al-pillared montmorillonite.
Figure 8 Effect of charge density of montmorillonite on oligomerization of oleic acid:  (▪) dicarboxylic acid, (·) tricarboxylic acid, and (▴) oligocarboxylic acid.
Figure 9 Relative rate of esterification of acetic acid with n-pentanol (P), 3-methylbutan-1-ol (3MB), and 2,2-dimethylpropan-1-ol (2,2-DMP).
Figure 10 Transition state of asymmetric sulfoxidation.
Figure 11 Dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene on Cr-montmorillonite containing 1.24, 3.53 Cr per unit cell, and also on a commercial Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalyst.
Figure 12 Synthesis of multilayer structures on silicon wafers.
Figure 13 Shape-selective production of MMA and DMA in a composite SiO2-Al2O3/CMS.
Figure 14 Pore size distribution of Si-Al catalysts, from N2 adsorption.
Figure 15 27Al MAS NMR spectra of sample TMA (a, synthesized and b, after calcination) and sample 2 (c, synthesized and d, after calcination).
Figure 16 29Si MAS NMR spectra of sample TMA (a, synthesized and b, after calcination) and sample TEA (c, synthesized and d, after calcination).
Figure 17 Pore size distribution of silica-alumina prepared with tetrapropylammonium, and in absence of alkalines.
Figure 18 Possible mechanistic pathways for the formation of MCM-41:  (1) liquid crystal initiated and (2) silicate anion initiated.
Figure 19 Mechanism for the formation of MCM-41.
Figure 20 Schematic diagram of the cooperative organization of silicate-surfactant mesophases.
Figure 21 A general scheme for the self-assembly reaction of different surfactant and inorganic species.
Figure 22 XRD (Cu Kα) of MCM-41 prepared in strong acid media generated by HCl and HNO3.
Figure 23 Schematic drawing of a micelle of surfactant molecules:  (a) in the absence of a solubilizing agent and (b) in the presence of n-alkanes as solubilizing agents.
Figure 24 XRD (Cu Kα) of MCM-41 samples with different pore diameter.
Figure 25 Correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of MCM-41 and the crystallization time.
Figure 26 The model of folding silicate sheets of kanemite.
Figure 27 Influence of the OH/SiO2, and alumina source on the ratio of AlIV/AlIV+AlVI in the MCM-41 formed.
Figure 28 Proposed amphoteric surfactant templating route for hexagonal mesophase formation where the carboxylate group provides for the bonding of the surfactant with the inorganic species and the quaternary ammonium group maintains a large head group area for hexagonal mesophase formation.
Figure 29 Powder X-ray diffraction paterns (Cu Kα) of as prepared MCM-41 (hexagonal), MCM-48 (cubic), and MCM-50 (lamellar) materials.
Figure 30 Structural model of MCM-41 with cylindrical pore (A) and hexagonal pore (B).
Figure 31 Adsorption isotherm of nitrogen (a), argon (b), and oxygen (c) on MCM-41 at 77K. Different symbols denote different runs; filled symbols denote desorption.
Figure 32 (a) Bloch Decay (BD) and cross polarization (CP) 29Si MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. The CP spectra were recorded with the optimum contact times. (b) BD and CP 27Al MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. Note the different intensity scaling factors for the BD spectra of the uncalcined samples. Asteriks denote spinning side bands.
Figure 33 IR spectra of MCM-41 samples (a) hydroxyl range, (b and c) pyridine adsorbed on high Al content, S1 (b), and low Al content, S2 (c) samples and desorbed in vacuum at different temperatures:  (1) 423 K; (2) 523 K; (3) 623 K.
Figure 34 TPD NH3 spectra of USY (1), calcined S1 sample (2), and amorphous silica alumina (3).
Figure 35 Ti K-edge XANES spectra of Ti-MCM-41 sample:  (a) calcined and (b) calcined and dehydrated.
Figure 36 Fourier transform magnitude of the K3-weighted EXAFS signals of anatase (solid line) and calcined, dehydrated Ti-MCM-41 sample 2 (dashed line).
Figure 37 IR spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
Figure 38 DR-UV spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
Figure 39 Selectivity to different products vs total conversion for cracking of gas oil for MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
Figure 40 Activity for cracking of gas oil for steamed MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
Figure 41 (a) Hydrodesulfurization (HDS) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature for (·) NiMo/MCM-41, (▴) NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3, (▪) NiMo/USY catalysts. (b) Hydrocracking (MHC) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature. Same symbols as in a. (c) Hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) conversion of feed A obtained at 400 °C reaction temperature on the different supported catalysts.
Figure 42 Propylene oligomerization on different acid catalysts.
Figure 43 Synthesis of dimethyl acetals on HY and MCM-41 acid catalysts.