Review
Ordered mesoporous materials in catalysis
Akira Taguchi, Ferdi Schu
¨th *
Max-Planck-Institut fu
¨r Kohlenforschung, Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz 1, Mu
¨lheim an der Ruhr 45470, Germany
Received 16 April 2004; accepted 4 June 2004
Available online 30 October 2004
Abstract
Ordered mesoporous catalysts could open the door for new catalytic processes, based partly on novel principles, owing to their
hitherto unprecedented intrinsic features. For the preparation of ordered mesoporous catalysts, many strategies have been
described. These strategies and the essential properties of the resulting materials are described in the ﬁrst part of this review. Cat-
alytic processes over such mesoporous materials, especially such reactions where the speciﬁc features of ordered mesoporous cata-
lysts are exploited, are described in the second part.
 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Mesoporous; Catalysis; MCM-41; Ordered; Support
Contents
1.
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2
2.
Synthesis of ordered mesoporous materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
3.
Control of local environment and morphology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
4.
Preparation of catalysts—strategies and properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
4.1.
Highly dispersed heteroatoms and oxidic species . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4.2.
Highly dispersed metal-, metal oxide- or metal sulﬁde-nanoparticles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.3.
Anchoring of molecular catalysts to the surface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
4.4.
Fully non-siliceous materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5.
Catalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
5.1.
Highly dispersed active sites — as an extension of microporous zeolite catalysts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.1.1.
Acid catalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20
5.1.2.
Acid/base reactions for ﬁne chemicals synthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
5.1.3.
Redox catalysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
5.2.
Catalysis by supported nanoparticles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
5.3.
Grafted active sites with deﬁned and well-characterized structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
5.4.
Catalysis by non-siliceous ordered mesoporous materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
1387-1811/$ - see front matter  2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.micromeso.2004.06.030
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +492083062367; fax: +492083062995.
E-mail address: schueth@mpi-muelheim.mpg.de (F. Schu
¨th).
www.elsevier.com/locate/micromeso
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
6. Conclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37
Acknowledgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
1. Introduction
Porous materials have been intensively studied with re-
gard to technical applications as catalysts and catalyst
supports. According to the IUPAC deﬁnition, porous
materials are divided into three classes; microporous (pore
size < 2nm), mesoporous (2–50nm), and macroporous
(>50nm) materials [1]. In addition, also the term ‘‘nano-
porous’’ is increasingly being used. However, it is not
clearly deﬁned and loosely refers to pores in the nanome-
ter size range. Many kinds of porous materials such as (pil-
lared) clays, anodic alumina, carbon nanotubes and
related porous carbons and so on, have been extensively
described in the literature [2]. Among the family of micro-
porous materials, the best known members are zeolites
which have a narrow and uniform micropore size distribu-
tion due to their crystallographically deﬁned pore system.
In recent years, environmental and economic consid-
erations have raised strong interest to redesign commer-
cially important processes so that the use of harmful
substances and the generation of toxic waste could be
avoided. In this respect, there is no doubt that heteroge-
neous catalysis can play a key role in the development of
environmentally benign processes in petroleum chemis-
try and in the production of chemicals, for instance by
substitution of liquid acid catalysts by solid materials.
Especially zeolites have attracted strong attention as
such acids, but also as base and redox catalysts. How-
ever, zeolites present severe limitations when large reac-
tant molecules are involved, especially in liquid-phase
systems as is frequently the case in the synthesis of ﬁne
chemicals, due to the fact that mass transfer limitations
are very severe for microporous solids. Attempts to im-
prove the diﬀusion of reactants to the catalytic sites have
so far focused on increasing the zeolite pore sizes [3], on
decreasing zeolite crystal size [4], or on providing an
additional mesopore system within the microporous
crystals [5,6]. An important line of research has focused
on the enlargement of the pore sizes into the mesopore
range, allowing larger molecules to enter the pore system,
to be processed there and to leave the pore system again.
The ﬁrst synthesis of an ordered mesoporous material
was described in the patent literature in 1969. However,
due to a lack of analysis, the remarkable features of this
product were not recognized [7,8]. In 1992, a similar
material was obtained by scientist in Mobil Oil Corpora-
tion who discovered the remarkable features of this no-
vel type of silica and opened up a whole ﬁeld of research
[9]. MCM-41, which stands for Mobil Composition of
Matter No. 41, shows a highly ordered hexagonal array
of unidimensional pores with a very narrow pore size
distribution [10,11]. The walls, however, very much
resemble amorphous silica. Other related phases such
as MCM-48 and MCM-50, which have a cubic and
lamellar mesostructure, respectively, were reported in
these early publications as well. At approximately the
same time, an alternative, but less versatile approach
to mesoporous materials was described by Yanagisawa
et al. [12]. Kanemite, a layered silicate, serves as a silica
source, the pathway leading to the ordered mesoporous
material is thought to proceed via surfactant intercala-
tion into the silicate sheets, warping of the sheets and
transformation to the hexagonally packed material.
Modifying
and
optimizing
the
reaction
conditions
yielded highly ordered mesoporous silicates and alu-
minosilicates as well [13,14]. The obtained materials
are designated as FSM-n, Folded Sheet mesoporous
Materials-n, here n is the number of carbon atoms in
the surfactant alkylchain used to synthesize the material.
Since these early discoveries a large research eﬀort has
been invested in the synthesis and characterization of a
variety of diﬀerent, although related materials.
Many reviews have been published covering various
aspects of ordered mesoporous materials, such as their
synthesis, surface modiﬁcation, application as host
materials, and in catalysis [15–31]. In this review, we will
ﬁrst describe the general methods for the preparation of
ordered mesoporous solids, then the pathways used to
introduce catalytic functions, and ﬁnally highlight their
applications in catalysis, with a focus on such applica-
tions which exploit the special features of ordered mes-
oporous materials. The treatment will cover primarily
the more recent literature, because surveys of older pub-
lications can be found in previous reviews on the cata-
lytic behavior [15,28,29]. It will not be attempted to
cover the patent literature, because it is almost impossi-
ble to follow this extensive body of work and—more
importantly—although many valuable ﬁndings are re-
ported in the patents, it is generally not easy to assess
the validity of the claims. It should, however, be men-
tioned, that the patents are covered on a rather broad
basis in the early review by Corma [15].
2
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
2. Synthesis of ordered mesoporous materials
The discovery of ordered mesoporous solids of the
MCM-41 type and related materials in the early 1990s
has been a breakthrough in materials engineering, and
since then there has been impressive progress in the
development of many new mesoporous solids based on
templating mechanisms related to the one used for the
original MCM-41 synthesis. Depending on the synthesis
conditions, the silica source or the type of surfactant
used, many other mesoporous materials can be synthe-
sized following the co-operative assembly pathway
[32–34]. In addition to the co-operative pathways, also
the true liquid crystal templating pathway [35] and
nanocasting using already formed ordered mesoporous
materials as hard templates [36,37] have been developed
over the last ten years. From the viewpoint of the tem-
plate used for synthesis and the interaction of inorganic
species and organic template molecule, the mesoporous
materials might be classiﬁed as listed in Table 1.
The ﬁrst-ordered mesoporous materials were pre-
pared from ionic surfactants, such as quaternary ammo-
nium ions. The formation of the inorganic–organic
composites is based on electrostatic interactions between
the positively charged surfactants and the negatively
charged silicate species in solution. The packing para-
meter g may be used to rationalize and also in some
cases predict the product structure and the conditions
for possible phase transitions. Such prediction of the
structure of surfactant aggregates and the corresponding
mesophases in surfactant–water systems was made pos-
sible by Israelachivili et al. [38,39], who developed a
microscopic model according to which the dimensionless
packing parameter g plays a key role. This number, g, is
deﬁned as g = V/a0lc, where V is the eﬀective volume of
the hydrophobic chain of the surfactant, a0 is the eﬀec-
tive aggregate surface area of the hydrophilic head
group, and lc is the eﬀective hydrophobic chain length.
Although the concept was originally only developed
for dilute solutions, it is surprisingly powerful also in
the understanding of the phases formed in relatively
concentrated systems from which ordered mesostruc-
tured materials are formed. One should note that the
variables in the deﬁnition of the packing parameters
are not constants for a given surfactant, but are inﬂu-
enced by the solution conditions, such as for instance
ionic strength, pH, co-surfactant concentration or tem-
perature [39]. A synthesis-space diagram (not a phase
diagram, because diﬀerent to pure surfactant–water sys-
tems, it is not only the thermodynamics which inﬂuences
the formation of a certain phase) for a ternary system
composed of NaOH, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide
(CTAB), and tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) has been
described in literature [40,41]. It was observed that the
surfactant to silica ratio has a substantial impact on
the composite structure obtained [42]. The co-operative
formation mechanism was extended by Stucky and co-
workers [41,43,44] to a whole series of other electrostatic
assembly mechanisms, such as a reversed SI+ (S = surf-
actant, I = inorganic species) mechanism and counter-
ion mediated S+XI+ and SM+I pathways. The use
of anionic surfactant via SI+ or SM+S interaction
has resulted mainly in lamellar and disordered meso-
structures. Recently, a novel synthetic route for meso-
porous silica by the use of anionic surfactants has
been reported by Che et al. (named AMS-n, Anionic
surfactant templated Mesoporous Silica) [45,46]. Here,
the negatively charged head group of the anionic surfac-
tant, such as palmitic acid or N-lauroyl-L
L-glutamic
acid,
interacts
with
the
positively
charged
amine
or ammonium groups of 3-aminopropyltrimethoxysi-
lane or N-trimethyoxysilylpropyl-N,N,N-trimethylam-
monium, which are used additives for co-condensation
of TEOS (tetra ethyl ortho silicate).
The mesopore size of these kinds of materials is pri-
marily controlled by the length of the alkyl chain of
the surfactant used. However, addition of auxiliary or-
ganic molecules such as aromatics [11,47], n-alkanes
[48], or fatty acid [49] can lead to an expansion of the
mesopore size. Mixing of two alkyl ammonium surfac-
tants with diﬀerent alkyl chain length can be used to
ﬁne-tune the pore size between those of the long and
the short chain surfactant [50].
Many silica-based mesoporous materials, but also
such with non-silica frameworks have been reported to
be formed via these electrostatic assembly pathways
[30]. From the catalytic point of view, materials are
of minor interest as long as the pores are blocked by
Table 1
Possible pathways for the synthesis of mesoporous materials
Template
Interaction
Synthesis conditions
Examples
Ionic surfactant
Direct interaction
ISþ
^^^^^^^
Basic
MCM-41, MCM-48, MCM-50 [9–11], FSM-16 [13,14]
(Ionic)
I+S
^^^^^^^
Neutral-basic
(Aluminum, iron, lead oxides, etc. [33,34]) AMS [45,46]
Intermediated interaction
I+XSþ
^^^^^^^
Acidic
SBA-1, SBA-2, SBA-3 [43], HMS [54], TLCT [35]
(Ionic)
IX+S
^^^^^^^
Basic
(Aluminum, zinc oxides etc. [33,34])
Non-ionic surfactant
(Non-ionic)
I0S0
^^^^^^^
HMS [54,55]
Co-polymer
I0N0
^^^^^^^
Acidic
MSU [56,58], SBA-15 [62,63], TLCT [35]
(Ligand assisted)
(Co-valent bonding)
I–S^^^^^^^
Nb-TMS [72,74], Ta-TMS [73]
Nanocasting
–
–
–
CMK-n [36,290]
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
3
template and the internal surface is not accessible. The
thermal instability of the early materials was attributed
to the existence of several relatively unstable oxidation
states of the metal centers, and thus oxidation or reduc-
tion reactions during calcination would lead to struc-
tural collapse [51]. However, as will be discussed
below, later on it has been possible to synthesize stable
non-silica materials [52,53], and some examples of catal-
yses over such materials have been appeared in the
literature.
Pinnavaia et al. have developed two additional ap-
proaches for the synthesis of mesoporous materials,
based on non-ionic organic–inorganic interactions. They
used neutral surfactants such as primary amines and
poly(ethylene oxides) to prepare HMS (hexagonal mes-
oporous silica) [54,55] and MSU (Michigan State Uni-
versity material) [56], respectively. The pore systems of
the latter silicas have been shown to have rather
worm-like structures than long-range ordered hexagonal
arrays which are characteristic for MCM-41 [57,58]. If
these nonionic surfactants are used instead of ionic ones,
hydrogen bonding is the driving force for the formation
of mesophases. Therefore, the surfactant can be recov-
ered by extraction, which is advantageous both from
an economical and an ecological point of view. More
than 90% of the template molecules can be recovered
by a simple extraction with ethanol [54] or acidiﬁed
water [59].
Compared to MCM-41, HMS and MSU have very
similar surface areas and pore volumes, but the pore size
distributions are somewhat broader. Many modiﬁca-
tions used in the synthesis of MCM-41 can also be ap-
plied to HMS. Control of pore size by changing the
alkyl chain length of the surfactant or by addition of
mesitylene to the reaction mixture have accordingly
been reported [60,61].
Poly(ethylene oxide) cannot only be used as such, but
is also a component in very versatile surfactants used for
the
synthesis
of
ordered
mesoporous
materials.
Poly(ethylene oxide) monoethers were used to form
materials showing worm-like disordered or hexagonally
ordered mesopores with pore sizes of ca. 5nm [62]. One
of the most useful groups of surfactants are the triblock
co-polymers consisting of poly(ethylene oxide)x–poly-
(propylene oxide)y–poly(ethylene oxide)x, (PEO)x(PPO)y-
(PEO)x, (trade name: Pluronics) which show the ability
to form liquid–crystal structures. They can be used to
synthesize a variety of diﬀerent ordered mesoporous
materials with rather large pores in various framework
compositions under strongly acidic conditions [62–65].
Here the EO (ethylene oxide) units and the cationic sil-
icate species favorably interact to form the mesostruc-
tured assembly, although the details of the mechanism
are much less clear than for the synthesis of the
MCM-41 type materials under basic conditions. A 2D
hexagonal mesoporous material formed via this path-
way (denoted as SBA-15, Santa BArbara No. 15) exhib-
its a thick wall of 3–7nm thickness and large pore sizes
adjustable between 6 and about 15nm. The thick wall of
this material signiﬁcantly improves the thermal and
hydrothermal
stability
compared
to
mesoporous
MCM-41 and related silicas.
The mesopore diameter of SBA-15 depends on the
synthetic conditions: increasing the gel aging tempera-
ture leads to a larger pore diameter [63,66]. One interest-
ing feature of SBA-15 is the microporosity which is
present in its mesopore wall, by which the micropores
connect neighboring mesopores. By careful investigation
of XRD and the modeling of the diﬀraction patterns,
Impe
´ror-Clerc et al. found that the walls had a ‘‘micro-
porous corona’’ region resulting from partial embedding
of the PEO part of the surfactant in the mesopore wall
[67]. The authors suggested that this corona is converted
to micropores upon calcination. Imaging of the plati-
num replica of the pore structure of SBA-15 allowed
to visualize the presence of these micropores using
TEM [66,68,69].
The same approach can lead to mesoporous alumina
[70]. Thermally stable, ordered, mesoporous SiAlO3.5,
SiTiO4, Al2O3, Al2TiO5, TiO2, ZrO2, ZrTiO4, ZrW2O8,
HfO2, Nb2O5, Ta2O5, WO3 and SnO2 with pore sizes
up to 14nm were synthesized with amphiphilic poly(alk-
ylene oxide) block co-polymers and inorganic salt pre-
cursors in non-aqueous solutions [64,65]. The materials
contain nanocrystalline domains within relatively thick
amorphous walls [71].
In the ligand assisted assembly approach, co-valent
bonds are formed between the inorganic precursors
and the organic surfactant molecule prior to assembly.
Originally, this synthetic approach has been developed
by Antonelli and Ying for the preparation of mesopor-
ous niobium oxide [72] and tantalum oxide [73]. The
synthesis of Nb-TMS (Transition-Metal oxide mesopor-
ous molecular Sieve) and Ta-TMS involves the hydroly-
sis of long-chain amine complexes of niobium or
tantalum alkoxides. The respective phase is formed by
self-assembly of the metal–alkoxide–amine complexes.
The template can be removed by extraction, leading to
open porous structures with surface areas of up to
500m2/g. Further, in case of niobia, mesostructured
materials with 3D hexagonal symmetry, a cubic phase,
and a layered phase could be obtained [74]. Also hexag-
onal
and
lamellar
mesostructured
silica
could
be
successfully prepared via this approach [44,75–77].
Shimojima and Kuroda used newly designed siloxane-
based oligomers, consisting of an alkylsilane core and
three branched trimethoxysilyl groups (CnH2n+1Si(O-
Si(OCH3)3)3, n = 10 or 16), in this ligand assisted strat-
egy [77]. The structure of the obtained materials
depended on the alkylchain length of the alkylsilane
used; the hexagonal structure was obtained with the
short chain silane (n = 10) while the lamellar structure
4
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
was formed by using the n = 16 silane. This structure
change is consistent with the change of the surfactant
packing parameter g upon increasing the surfactant
chain length.
The methods discussed so far all rely on a co-opera-
tive interaction between the surfactant and the inorganic
species by which an organic/inorganic mesostructured
composite is formed. However, one can also use a pre-
formed surfactant liquid crystalline phase which is sub-
sequently loaded with the precursor for the inorganic
material. This pathway, later labeled ‘‘true liquid crystal
templating’’ (TLCT) [35], had already been suggested as
one possible mechanism for the formation of MCM-41
in the original publication by the Mobil-group [10].
The ﬁrst realization was reported by Attard et al. [35]
who hydrolyzed tetramethylorthosilicate (TMOS) within
a liquid crystalline phase. This phase was destroyed
upon formation of the methanol but reformed after
evaporation of the alcohol. This method was later found
to be useful also for the synthesis of mesoporous metals
[78–81] or mesostructured assemblies of chalkogenide
nanoparticles [82]. The boundary between the co-opera-
tive pathway and the TLCT mechanism, however, is not
sharply deﬁned because the pure surfactant mesophase
used in the TLCT method may be intermittently de-
stroyed and then reformed during the synthesis.
A clearly distinct method is the nanocasting ﬁrst re-
ported by Ryoo and co-workers in 1999 [36]. Here no
surfactant template is used, but instead the pore system
of an ordered mesoporous silica is used as a hard tem-
plate. The pores are inﬁltrated with a carbon precursor
such as sucrose or furfuryl alcohol which is subsequently
converted to carbon by high temperature treatment in
inert gas (Fig. 1). After leaching of the silica with HF
or NaOH, a negative of the original mold is obtained
(denoted as CMK-n). Also small ordered mesoporous
metal domains could be prepared by this pathway
although it is not fully clear how well the perfection
and long range order of the materials is [83]. While this
method is already well established to produce carbon-
based materials and ordered mesoporous polymers
[84,85], silica as a hard template for the formation of
an oxide was only recently reported for some examples,
such as CeO2 [86], Cr2O3 [87], NiO [88], OsO4 [89], In2O3
[90,91] and Co3O4 [91,92]. This is probably due to the
fact that many oxide materials are not compatible with
the conditions of silica leaching.
Alternatively, non-carbon materials can be synthe-
sized via the nanocasting route by repeated nanocasting,
where ﬁrst an ordered mesoporous carbon is synthesized
which is then in turn used as a hard template for the syn-
thesis of an oxide. This has been demonstrated to be
possible for the example of silica so far (Fig. 1)
[37,93]. Although on ﬁrst sight the complex procedure
brings only back the starting situation, additional con-
trol of the textural parameters, such as the fraction of
micropores in the materials, is possible [94]. Considering
the range of methods reported and their versatility to
produce ordered mesoporous material, it is not hard
to predict that compositional variability will continue
to increase over the years to come.
3. Control of local environment and morphology
One of the interesting features of ordered mesopor-
ous solids for catalysis is the multitude of possibilities
to modify them. The modiﬁcations can be used to adjust
Mesoporous silica
(SBA-15, MCM-48)
C, Pt
(HF, NaOH)
C (CMK-n), Pt
SiO2
(calcination)
Replica material
Polymer, Cr2O3, NiO, Co3O4 etc.
Polymer,
Transitionmetal 
 
oxides
(HF, NaOH)
(A)
(B)
Fig. 1. Schematic description of the nanocasting pathway. (A) Loading with carbon or platinum and following dissolution of mesoporous silica gives
the corresponding porous materials with negative replica structure. Subsequent back casting with silica source and removal of carbon by calcination
allows to obtain positive replica porous silica material. (B) Incorporation of polymer or metal oxides instead of carbon or platinum also allows to
obtain new mesoporous materials.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
5
surface functionality, to incorporate catalytic functions
or to change textural properties. These methods, with
a focus on such modiﬁcations which are useful for the
application of the materials as catalysts, will be dis-
cussed in the following.
Recently, the thermal, hydrothermal, and mechanical
stabilities of various mesoporous silicas, e.g. MCM-41,
MCM-48, HMS, FSM-16, KIT-1, PCH (porous clay
heterostructure) [95] and SBA-15, have been studied
by Galarneau et al. [96], Cassiers et al. [97] and Igarashi
et al. [98]. It was discovered that the thermal stability
strongly depends on the wall thickness of the mesopor-
ous materials and the silica precursor used in the synthe-
sis. Hydrothermal stability is inﬂuenced by the wall
thickness as well, but the degree of silica polymerization
has also a very strong inﬂuence on hydrothermal stabil-
ity (Table 2). Mechanical stability, on the other hand, is
only little inﬂuenced by the nature of the mesoporous
materials and is usually suﬃcient for application of or-
dered mesoporous solids in most catalytic applications.
Since hydrothermal stability is essential for most possi-
ble applications of mesoporous materials in catalysis,
several approaches were developed to improve this
property. The strategies that have been investigated in-
clude the addition of salts during the hydrothermal syn-
thesis [99], modiﬁcation of the surface by silylation [100]
or post-synthesis grafting of inorganic compounds to in-
crease the wall thickness or to chemically stabilize the
wall surface [101].
In order to decrease the population of surface silan-
ols, the number of which inﬂuences the structural stabil-
ity [97,98], silylation of surface hydroxyls is widely used.
This treatment drastically increases the surface hydro-
phobicity, and therefore, the resulting materials have
improved hydrothermal stabilities. Direct incorporation
of organic groups, either pending on the wall [102,103]
or incorporated as bridges between silicon atoms in
the wall [104] is possible, for instance, by the use of
alkylalkoxysilanes as silica source. Since the alkyl-C-
bond is not aﬀected during synthesis, the organic groups
are retained in the ﬁnal material. Such modiﬁed silicas
and their properties are discussed in several recent re-
views [105–109]. Grafting of inorganic components,
such as Al, Ti, V, etc., is also eﬀective in achieving sur-
face silanol modiﬁcation. In addition to decrease of the
number of structural defect sites in the silica framework,
this treatment also leads to increased pore wall thick-
ness. Furthermore, such treatment might simultaneously
be used to introduce catalytic functions into the materi-
als [110,111].
The activity of solid catalysts is sometimes inﬂuenced
by an additional interaction between substrate and sup-
port surface. For example, enhancement of catalytic
activity in the epoxidation of cyclohexene with alkyl
hydroperoxides was observed when the surface of
MCM-41 had been modiﬁed with Ge(IV) prior to the
grafting of titanocene dichloride (TiCp2Cl2) [112]. The
turnover frequency increased up to 140% compared to
the catalyst supported on siliceous MCM-41. The
EDX-TEM and XAS measurements revealed that the
germanium is evenly spread over the MCM-41, indicat-
ing a strong interaction of Ge and silica support. Tita-
nium centers attached via oxygen to two silicon and
one germanium atom are responsible for the increased
activity of this catalyst. The activity for cyclooctene
epoxidation with tert-butylhydroperoxide (TBHP) of
an oxodiperoxo molybdenum complex grafted on meso-
porous material was improved by the use of Al-MCM-
41 instead of siliceous MCM-41 [113]. Two possible
explanations are (i) the Al sites near the active Mo com-
plex could activate the TBHP molecule for proton trans-
fer
to an
Mo(O2)
unit
in
the
activation
of
the
Table 2
Eﬀect of thermal and hydrothermal treatments on the surface area and primary pore volume of mesoporous materials [97]
Wall thickness (nm)
Surface area (m2/g)
Pore volume (cm3/g)
550C
850C
400C,
30vol%
steam, 120h
100C, 100vol%
relative
humidity, 16h
550C
850C
400C,
30vol%
steam, 120h
100C, 100vol%
relative humidity,
16h
MCM-41(T)a
0.97
1128
403b
1019
145
0.95
0.26b
0.47
–d
MCM-41(FS)a
1.10
1027
795
864
106
0.92
0.53
0.58
–d
MCM-48(T)a
0.93
1433
108b
1318
197
1.14
–a
0.93
–a
MCM-48(FS)a
0.94
1319
1094
1130
168
1.22
0.74
0.94
–a
HMS
1.07
1021
213b
830
228
0.81
–a
0.48
–a
FSM-16
0.99
1172
476
789
67
0.78
0.20
0.36
–a
KIT-1
1.07
1059
967
–c
974
0.88
0.68
–c
0.78
PCH
899
441
728
335
0.50
0.25
0.43
–c
SBA-15
2.97
632
446b
500
281
0.63
0.48b
0.55
0.47
a Prepared from TEOS (T) or fumed silica (FS) as a silica source.
b Data from 750C.
c Not measured.
d No capillary condensation step was observed in the N2 isotherm.
6
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
organoperoxide, and/or (ii) a Lewis acid site close to the
molybdenum species could co-ordinate to the ligand of
the Mo complex and reduce the donor strength of the
ligand-Mo bond which leads to an increase in the cata-
lytic activity.
The hydrophobic/hydrophilic properties of the cata-
lyst surface sometimes also have a strong inﬂuence on
the catalytic activity. In the acetalization of D
D-glucose
with n-butanol on Al-MCM-41, the catalytic activity is
inﬂuenced by the hydrophobic properties as well as the
concentration of active acid sites [114]. In this reaction,
the initial rate for the disappearance of D
D-glucose is in-
creased with increase of the Si/Al ratio. If the Si/Al ratio
of MCM-41 is increased, the hydrophobicity of the
catalyst will increase as well. Due to the diﬀerence of
polarity
of
D
D-glucose
(hydrophilic)
and
n-butanol
(hydrophobic) the more polar glucose could preferen-
tially and strongly be adsorbed. These examples show
that in many cases ﬁne-tuning of surface polarity and
the active site is required in the design of solid catalysts.
This holds especially for catalysts based on ordered mes-
oporous materials, since due to their pore system with
relatively narrow pores the reacting molecules are ex-
posed to a local environment determined by the surface
properties of these pores for a relatively long time.
The most well-known example for the eﬀect of sur-
face hydrophobicity is the oleﬁn epoxidation over
titanium-modiﬁed
materials.
Silylated
mesoporous
titanosilicates which are more hydrophobic compared
to the unmodiﬁed silicas, have enhanced activity in ole-
ﬁn epoxidation [115–117]. When alkylhydroperoxides
are used as oxidants, the substrates have to compete
with water. An increase in activity is then expected for
a more hydrophobic support, because the substrates
are favored in the pore system and therefore gain easier
access to the catalytically active titanium centers. More-
over, in Ti-MCM-41 with larger pores compared to zeo-
lites, the alkylhydroperoxide can easily penetrate the
mesopore system, reducing diﬀusion limitations or com-
plete exclusion of the hydroperoxide. In addition, the
removal of the silanols may reduce the undesired solvo-
lysis reaction of the formed epoxides by water.
As stated above, in comparison to microporous zeo-
lites, ordered mesoporous materials overcome the pore
size constraint of zeolites and allow more facile diﬀusion
of bulky substrates. Unrestricted diﬀusion of reactants
and products for mesoporous materials was observed
even after the incorporation of large catalytically active
sites in the mesopore system [118,119]. Since diﬀusion
limitations depend on the size and morphology of the
primary catalyst particles, variation of these factors
should help to elucidate mass transfer eﬀects. Wong
et al. [120] studied the eﬀect of the morphology of
MCM-41 on catalytic performance. They reported vari-
ous diﬀerent synthesis procedures and characterized
transition metal oxide catalysts supported on tubular
and particulate MCM-41 [121,122]. They tested the cat-
alytic performance of several molybdenum oxide cata-
lysts for ethylbenzene dehydrogenation and showed
that Mo supported on tubular MCM-41 has a higher
activity (3.07 · 103mol/hg) than that on MCM-41 with
a usual particulate morphology (2.60 · 103mol/hg). In
addition, the catalyst based on tubular MCM-41 had a
lower deactivation rate. A similar trend has recently
been published in catalytic cracking of 1,3,5-triisopro-
pylbenzene over Al-MCM-41 with tubular and particu-
late morphology [123]. The high porosity of the tubular
MCM-41 and the presence of defects are proposed to be
responsible for the better performance, by improving the
inter-channel diﬀusion of reactants and products. This is
on ﬁrst sight in agreement with a recent NMR study of
cyclohexane diﬀusion in tubular and particulate materi-
als where intraparticle diﬀusion coeﬃcients in tubular
materials were observed to be higher [123]. However,
the study was performed close to room temperature,
and activation energies were reported to be 15kJ/mol
for the tubular sample and 27kJ/mol for the particulate
one. Under reaction temperature, diﬀusion can thus be
expected to be higher in the particulate sample. Thus,
more work seems to be necessary to elucidate mass
transfer eﬀects in catalysis over ordered mesoporous
materials, especially, since the diﬀerences between diﬀer-
ent morphologies do not seem to be very pronounced.
In order to obtain eﬃcient solid-phase catalysts, mor-
phology control of mesoporous silica may help to
optimize the material for speciﬁc applications. The syn-
thesis of thin ﬁlms [124–126], ﬁbers [127–130], tubes
[121,131], spheres [125,132–134] or monoliths [135] has
been reported, following various pathways, which in-
clude either self-organization, or shaping procedures,
such as spray-drying [132], aerosol processing [133],
spin- and dip-coating [126,136], etc. Syntheses in the
presence of special additives, such as polystyrene latices
or water-soluble polymers yielded porous silicas with
mesoporous–macroporous hierarchical porosity [137,
138].
4. Preparation of catalysts—strategies and properties
Ordered mesoporous silicas are not often used as cat-
alysts as such. Much more frequently, additional cata-
lytic functions are introduced, by incorporation of
active sites in the silica walls or by deposition of active
species on the inner surface of the material. The advan-
tage of using ordered mesoporous solids in catalysis are
the relatively large pores which facilitate mass transfer
and the very high surface area which allows a high con-
centration of active sites per mass of material. There are
many possible pathways to modify mesoporous materi-
als when one wants to give them a new catalytic function
as schematically shown in Fig. 2. Metal ions substituting
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
7
silicon atoms in the framework, similar as in zeolites,
can act as acid or redox active sites and may be used
for diﬀerent classes of catalytic reactions. One should
bear in mind, though, that the wall structure of ordered
mesoporous silica rather resembles amorphous silica.
Incorporation of other metal centers therefore does
not lead to the formation of deﬁned sites as in zeolites,
but to a rather wide variety of diﬀerent sites with diﬀer-
ent local environments. Therefore, the catalytic proper-
ties of such materials are closer to those of metal
substituted amorphous silica than to those of frame-
work substituted zeolites. Possibly more interesting is
to exploit the exceedingly high surface area of these
materials in support applications for metal or metal
oxide particles or to deposit isolated species onto the
wall surface. Interestingly, these active sites can be con-
structed both directly or via post-synthesis procedures
by a multitude of pathways, which means that the prop-
erties of these active sites are variable and controllable,
depending on the synthetic procedure.
The number of combinations of diﬀerent modiﬁca-
tions of ordered mesoporous materials is high, since
many properties can be changed independently of each
other. One may think about surface coating of mesopor-
ous materials with organic or inorganic species, which
drastically changes the microenvironment inside the mes-
opores. On the other hand, the pore system with large
pore opening enables the ﬁxation of various regio- and
enantioselective complexes; this can be advantageous
compared to conventional microporous or macroporous
supports since the size of the pores can be exactly
adapted to the requirements of the anchored species.
The open mesoporous structure provides highly dis-
persed and spatially uniform active sites. Furthermore,
the composition of the mesoporous support material it-
self could be changed by wall incorporation of diﬀerent
components, which is another adjustable parameter of
the materials. Since most of these factors could be varied
independently, diﬀerent materials could be created in an
almost combinatorial fashion.
Many of the modiﬁcation steps make use of the sila-
nol groups present on the silica surface of the ordered
mesoporous silica, because they are the anchor sites
for metal species or silane coupling agents. There are
many indications that the density of silanols in ordered
mesoporous materials, especially in MCM-41, is lower
than in conventional hydroxylated silica. For conven-
tional hydroxylated silica, the density of silanol groups
is remarkably constant, irrespective of the origin of the
silica, at about 4–6 Si–OH/nm2 [139]. This, however,
can be diﬀerent for ordered mesoporous materials. Con-
centrations of between 1.4 and 1.9groups/nm2 have been
determined for the cubic MCM-48 [140]. This is close to
the data reported by other groups. From the published
data, a concentration between 2 and 3 groups/nm2 can
be
estimated
for
MCM-41
as
well
as
MCM-48
[141,142].
However,
direct
comparison
with
fully
hydroxylated silica is diﬃcult, since from the published
data it is often not clear, to what extent the surface of
these materials is dehydroxylated by the thermal pre-
treatment, or whether a rehydroxylation step was per-
formed under controlled conditions. For SBA-15 with
its larger pores pretreated at 200C under vacuum, a
concentration of around 1.0OH/nm2 was reported,
which roughly corresponds to the value expected after
such
a
pre-treatment
also
for
conventional
silica
substitution
grafting
M+
L
M
L
silylation
surface coating
E
ion
 exchange
enzyme
 encapsulation
immobilization
Mesoporous materials
(MCM-41, -48, SBA-15, etc)
High surface area (  1000 m2/g)
Narrow pore size distribution
Thermal stability
organic-inorganic
 hybrid framework
non-silica material
Direct synthesis  or  Post synthesis
nano-
 particle
Fig. 2. Schematic sketch of the various methods for the functionalization of mesoporous material. There are many possible strategies and pathways
to introduce novel functions in mesoporous materials.
8
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
[143,144]. One should also keep in mind that there is evi-
dence for a non-homogeneous distribution of the silan-
ols over the surface of MCM-41: more hydrophobic
and more hydrophilic patches co-exist in these materials
and their relative concentration changes with surface
area and pore size (Fig. 3) [96,145]. This may lead to
inhomogeneous distribution of groups anchored to the
surface. Even if the silanol groups are homogeneously
distributed, the possibly lower silanol density compared
to conventional hydroxylated silica may correspond to a
lower podality (on average) of the anchored species
which could result in a higher susceptibility to hydrolytic
bond cleavage.
In the following, we will brieﬂy discuss the diﬀerent
types of active species found in catalysts based on mes-
oporous silica and the pathways used to generate them.
The basic properties of the resulting materials will also
be described.
4.1. Highly dispersed heteroatoms and oxidic species
Much eﬀort has been focused on the introduction of
heteroatoms, such as B, Fe, Ga, Ti, V, Sn, and particu-
larly aluminum, in the siliceous framework to modify
the composition of the inorganic walls. This is especially
important with respect to the catalytic applications,
since substitution of silicon allows ﬁne-tuning of the
acidity or creation of redox properties, similar as ob-
served in amorphous aluminosilicates or zeolites. Mod-
iﬁcation of the framework composition is possible by
the direct synthesis, i.e. from mixtures containing both
silicon and the heteroelement to be incorporated, or
by post-treatment of an initially prepared silica meso-
porous material. The results of these two diﬀerent meth-
ods are not necessarily identical. While the direct
method typically will result in a relatively homogeneous
incorporation of the heteroelement, post-synthesis treat-
ment will primarily modify the wall surface and thus
lead to increased concentration of the heteroelement
on the surface. This eﬀect has, for instance, been used
by Mokaya [110] to synthesize aluminum modiﬁed
materials with enhanced hydrothermal stability. The in-
creased stability was explained by the coating of the
silica surface with alumina species which are less suscep-
tible to hydrothermal degradation. The nature of the
reagents used for grafting can strongly inﬂuence the
properties of the resulting materials. This was nicely
demonstrated for Sn(IV) modiﬁed materials obtained
by grafting with RnSnCl4n precursors. Tin reagents
with two or three chloro substituents and correspond-
ingly two or one alkyl substituents avoid the generation
of inactive polymeric species [146].
Incorporation of aluminum is of special interest if, as
in zeolites, this results in the formation of Brønsted acid-
ity and ion exchange sites. The 29Si MAS NMR results
indicate the amorphous nature of the pore walls. Since
the O–Al–O angle is less ﬂexible than the O–Si–O angle,
Al-MCM-41 materials are commonly less well ordered
on the mesoscale and show a broader pore size distribu-
tion than their pure silica analogues [10,147].
Adsorption of bases such as ammonia and pyridine
on Al-MCM-41 allows to determine the strength of acid
sites via temperature programmed desorption and FT-
IR [147–153]. One can distinguish with these methods
between Brønsted and Lewis acidity and recognize weak
and strong acid sites, which are formed depending on
the Si/Al ratio and the nature of the trivalent element
(Al, Fe, Ge). Since the local environment around the
acid sites corresponds to amorphous silica–alumina,
however, framework substituted materials exhibit a sub-
stantially weaker acidity than zeolites, and rather corre-
spond to amorphous silica–alumina in number of acid
sites and acid strength distribution (Fig. 4) [154].
Typically, directly synthesized aluminum contain-
ing mesoporous silicas, i.e. synthesized from precursor
solutions already containing aluminum, have both
Fig. 3. Schematic view of the inhomogeneous silanol group distribution in the hexagonal pore of MCM-41 mesoporous silica. (A) EPR spectra
suggest a direct interaction of the charged head of 4-alkyldimethylammonium-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyle (white head group) with the
polar surfaces sites in the hydrophilic part, the number of which increases with the pore diameter of MCM-41. (B) The hydrophilic surfaces
correspond to the section on the ﬂat sides of the hexagon. Around the pore corners, a condensed silica surface is generated with a low concentration
of silanol [96,145].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
9
tetrahedrally and octahedrally co-ordinated aluminum
[151,155–158]. Change of the aluminum source can lead
to the formation of exclusively tetrahedrally co-ordi-
nated aluminum. If Al(OH)3, aluminum iso-propoxide
(Al(OPri)3) or NaAlO2 are used as aluminum source,
Al-MCM-41 prepared from NaAlO2 gave the strongest
Brønsted acidity [158]. Microcalorimetry studies of
ammonia adsorption revealed that a sample prepared
from Al(OH)3 contains a wide distribution of acid site
strength while samples prepared with Al(OPri)3 or
NaAlO2 contain sites with a distinct strength around
130–150kJ/mol (Fig. 4). By using aluminum sulfate,
Al-MCM-41 can be prepared which has all aluminum
atoms in tetrahedral co-ordination down to a frame-
work Si/Al ratio as low as 10, although ion exchange
of Na+ against NHþ
4 and following calcination lead to
the removal of a small fraction of the aluminum from
the framework [151,156]. It is also possible to prepare
aluminum incorporated SBA-15 via a direct synthetic
route [159]. Washing the material in NH4Cl solution
can eliminate the octahedrally and pentagonally co-ordi-
nated Al species, the absence of which was conﬁrmed by
27Al MAS NMR. The Al-SBA-15 shows higher hydro-
thermal stability and has higher activity in cumene
cracking than Al-MCM-41.
As in zeolites, diﬀerent heteroelements provide diﬀer-
ent strength of the resulting acid sites. The Brønsted acid
strength of Al-, Ga-, and Fe-substituted MCM-48 inves-
tigated by NH3-TPD were in the order of Al > Ga > Fe,
whereas
the
Lewis
acid
sites
showed
an
order
Ga  Al  Fe [152]. Adding heteroelements to the syn-
thesis mixture does not only lead to their incorporation.
Other properties of the synthesis product may be chan-
ged as well. The content of Ga, i.e. the concentration of
Ga(NO3)3 in the synthetic gel, inﬂuences the particle size
of Ga-MCM-41 [160]. The average particle size observed
by dynamic light scattering increased with increasing Ga
content from 3500nm (Si/Ga = 1) to 10,000nm (Si/
Ga = 25).
For post-treatment to induce acidity, various kinds of
reagents can be used, and the resulting materials often
provide the desired catalytic properties. A comparative
study of the acidity of directly synthesized and post-trea-
ted Al-MCM-41 has been published by Chen et al. [153].
From the FT-IR-based acidity analysis with pyridine as
a probe molecule, one can conclude that Al-MCM-41
directly prepared from Al(OPri)3 and TEOS in a mixed
gel has the highest concentration of acid sites. The
Al(OPri)3 grafted materials show lower acid site concen-
tration than AlCl3 grafted samples even for similar Si/Al
ratios (11.8–1.3). The total concentration of acid sites
normally increases linearly with increasing loading of
aluminum [153]. However, at higher loading levels,
agglomeration of aluminum species takes place and
the concentration of acid sites becomes almost inde-
pendent of the aluminum content of the materials [161].
Not only aluminum but also other elements such as
Sn [146,162] Zn [162] or Zr [163] can be incorporated
by post-treatment, and resultant materials provide inter-
esting catalytic activity. For example, Zhu et al. [163] re-
ported that zirconium 1-propoxide grafted SBA-15 has
higher
activities
in
the
Meerwein–Ponndorf–Verley
(MPV) reduction of 4-tert-butylcyclohexanone than
SBA-15 grafted with aluminum 2-propoxide.
From the viewpoint of the surface acidity, thermal
stability or hydrothermal stability, one of the most inter-
esting developments involves zeolitization of the wall of
mesoporous silica. Generally, two methods seem feasible
for this process: (i) the silica in the walls of a formed
ordered mesoporous material could be converted to
zeolitic units, or (ii) the mesoporous silica could be
Fig. 4. Acidity of various aluminosilicates studied with NH3 adsorp-
tion calorimetric analysis. Numbers in parentheses show the Si/Al ratio
[154].
10
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
synthesized from solutions which already contain zeo-
litic structural elements. Kloetstra et al. [164] followed
the ﬁrst pathway and tried to re-crystallize the amor-
phous aluminosilicate wall to the zeolitic ZSM-5 struc-
ture. Using glycerol as a solvent, Na+ and TPA+ ion
exchanged Al-MCM-41 was treated in an autoclave at
120C. However, the presence of zeolitic species in the
wall could not clearly be proven. The alternative path-
way seems to be more successful. In a ﬁrst step, zeolite
synthesis gels are prepared and aged under conditions
where no bulk zeolite particles form. Small structural
fragments are thought to be present in such solutions
and some indications that this is true do exist. In a sec-
ond step, the surfactant template is added, and a meso-
porous material is formed. Although diﬃcult to analyze,
the catalytic, spectroscopic and textural properties sug-
gest that the walls indeed contain structural fragments
of zeolites. Several publications report the formation
of mesoporous materials with zeolitic fragments in the
walls which were synthesized following this method
[165–169]. Alternatively, the walls of mesoporous silica
can also be coated with zeolitic fragments, as reported
by Trong On and Kaliaguine [170–172]. The FT-IR
spectrum after pyridine adsorption, using ZSM-5 coated
SBA-15 as an example, shows the two intense absorp-
tion bands characteristic for Brønsted and Lewis acid
sites, which are not observable for the parent mesopor-
ous SBA-15 [170]. In addition, the material was very sta-
ble when exposed to boiling water at 100C or steam at
800C. Such materials may have good perspectives for
industrial applications, because they combine the acidity
of zeolites with the improved mass transfer of mesopor-
ous materials.
The substitution of trivalent elements in a silica
framework requires the presence of extra framework
charge compensation cations. Such counter ions are usu-
ally exchangeable and can be used to introduce novel
functionality into the mesoporous silicate. For example,
the cations in aluminosilicates were successfully ex-
changed with Cs+, Zn2+ or Fe3+, and the resulting mate-
rials show catalytic activity in the Diels–Alder reaction
of cyclopentadiene and methyl acrylate [173] or in
the selective catalytic reduction of NO [174]. Not only
inorganic
cations
but
also
cationic
organometallic
compounds, such as [Fe(phenanthroline)3]Cl2 [175],
[Fe(8-quinolinol)3]Cl2 [176], [Mn(2,20-bipyridine)2]NO3
[177],
[Mn(porphyrin)]Cl
[178],
or
[Mn(salen)]Cl
[179,180], are also exchangeable. However, one should
keep in mind that the ion-exchange procedure some-
times leads to a partial elimination of the substituted tri-
valent element [156,181,182]. In addition, the counter
ions may play a role in the stabilization of the meso-
structure; hydration of the H+ form of B-MCM-41 re-
sulted in an easy extraction of framework boron, while
the tetrahedral framework boron is stable when Na+
and NHþ
4 are present as counter ions [181].
In order to modify the catalytic activity of the meso-
porous materials, especially to create redox active sites,
several other metal ions were incorporated into the silica
framework or grafted on the surface. Similar to zeolites,
the incorporation of transition metal ions, such as Ti, V,
or Mn, could isolate these active centers and thus make
them highly eﬃcient. The catalytic behavior is strongly
inﬂuenced by the nature, the local environment and
the stability of the metal introduced, and by the hydro-
phobic properties of the surface. As discussed above,
however, the materials may more resemble substituted
amorphous silica than framework substituted zeolites
with
respect
to
their
properties
and
catalytic
performance.
Incorporation of Ti in mesoporous materials is gener-
ally achieved via a direct synthesis procedure which in-
volves addition of a titanium source, such as titanium
ethoxide (Ti(OEt)4) in H2O2 or titanium isopropoxide
(Ti(OPri)4) in ethanol, to the gel for hydrothermal syn-
thesis [183,184]. One of the problems in the preparation
of substituted mesoporous silica with a homogeneous
titanium distribution is due to the great reactivity diﬀer-
ences between the usual Ti and Si precursor species, such
as the alkoxides. Use of chelate reagents is one of the
promising
methods
to
circumvent
this
problem
[185,186].
In order to create highly dispersed and isolated
Ti-species, grafting is a viable alternative to direct syn-
thesis. These systems were prepared for use in either
oxidation catalysis or photocatalysis. Grafting of a tita-
nium precursor such as titanocene dichloride [112,187]
TiCl4 [188,189], Ti(OEt)4 [190], Ti(OPri)4 [191,192], or
tetrakis(dimethyl amido)titanium [191], and following
post-treatment, such as calcination, provide highly dis-
persed Ti-species.
Titanium isopropoxide was grafted on SBA-15 with
Si/Ti ratios between 80 and 5 with high dispersion
[192]. The fraction of tetrahedral Ti measured by XPS
decreased from 83% to 25% with increase of the Ti con-
tent. At Si/Ti of 5, the average number of Ti atoms per
unit surface area is 2.4 Ti/nm2. Compared to the value of
5.5 Ti/nm2 for the (010) plane of anatase, the number
suggests that the titanium does not form a complete
‘‘TiO2’’ monolayer.
Deposition–precipitation is also eﬀective to obtain
highly dispersed titanium species [117]. The impregna-
tion of a mixture of quaternary ammonium hydroxide
and
partially
hydrolyzed
tetrabutyl
orthotitanate
(TBOT) with SBA-15 or MCM-41, and following ﬁltra-
tion, washing and calcination gave anatase-free meso-
porous titanosilicates with Si/Ti ratios between 116
and 16. The role of the quaternary ammonium hydrox-
ide is probably to promote the dispersion of the titanium
species. However, the exact nature of the short alkyl
groups did not strongly inﬂuence the result of the
synthesis.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
11
The template ion-exchange method is a new prepara-
tion technique for atomically isolated metal centers
[193,194]. Ion exchange of alkylammonium cations pre-
sent in as-synthesized MCM-41 against transition metal
cations, and following calcination can provide evenly
dispersed metal centers on the mesopore surface. Mn-
MCM-41 synthesized this way has a higher activity for
the catalytic epoxidation of aromatic oleﬁns than Mn–
SiO2 and Mn-Al2O3 prepared by conventional impreg-
nation methods, or than Mn-ion exchanged ZSM-5. It
has been described that this method can be applied for
the preparation of Ti- and V-modiﬁed mesoporous silica
[195,196], but is not suitable for iron exchange [197].
Gas phase deposition of active elements is a promis-
ing technique, provided the precursors are volatile rea-
gents [198–200]. The loading amount depends on the
silanol number and not on the geometrical surface area
[198]. The 51V NMR and UV–vis spectroscopic studies
revealed that VOx centers were, in the absence of water,
grafted
in
pseudotetrahedral
co-ordination
with
O3/2V@O conﬁguration by three Si–O–V bonds [199].
Most of the VOx species are present as tetrahedrally
co-ordinated oligomers with an average ensemble size
of 5.6 after calcination. Grafting of VOx structures on
the mesoporous silica surface was also achieved using
dimethyldichlorosilane (DMDCS) as a coupling agent
[201–203]. Pure silica MCM-48 was ﬁrst silylated using
appropriate amounts of DMDCS, then hydrolyzed in
water to create Si–O–Si(CH3)2OH species on the sur-
face.
The
silylated
material
was
used
to
anchor
VO(acac)2, followed by calcination in air at 450C
resulting in a hydrophobic material with an improved
stability towards leaching and with the V5+ centers still
accessible to water adsorption.
4.2. Highly dispersed metal-, metal oxide- or metal
sulﬁde-nanoparticles
The deposition of catalytically active nanoparticles
on support materials with high dispersion is an impor-
tant and eﬀective strategy for the design of catalysts. Or-
dered mesoporous materials with their intrinsically high
surface areas are excellently suited for this purpose. Pore
blockage is not a severe problem up to relatively high
loading, since for many mesoporous materials the pri-
mary particle size is rather small and the pores thus
short. Compared to other support materials, the ordered
mesoporous solids have the advantage of stabilizing
metal or metal oxide particles, since they cannot grow
to sizes larger than the pore size unless they move to
the external surface of the particles. Compared to the
microporous solids with their narrow and well deﬁned
pores, they allow the access of bulky reagents.
Metal nanoparticles have been used in catalysis for
many decades, since supported noble metal catalysts
typically have noble metal particles sizes in the nanom-
eter ranger. These materials have great potential as cat-
alysts because of the large surface area and high fraction
of atoms present at the surface of the particles which is
the reaction site in heterogeneous catalysis [204]. Unfor-
tunately, small particles are unstable with respect to
agglomeration to the bulk material due to their high sur-
face energies. In most cases, this agglomeration leads to
the loss of the properties associated with the colloidal
state of these metallic particles. Therefore, stabilization
of nanoparticles is required which is typically brought
about by a suitable support material.
Several pathways for depositing the active compound
on mesoporous supports are available (Table 3). Direct
inclusion of metal particle in the synthetic gel of meso-
porous materials has been studied in the cases of Pt
and Rh [205,206]. Junges et al. [205] reported a prepara-
tion of Pt/MCM-41 by adding diﬀerent platinum precur-
sors to the synthetic gel. The neutral Pt precursor
[Pt(NH3)2Cl2] was found to be more suitable for the
preparation of small particles compared to the cationic
[Pt(NH3)4](NO3)2 or anionic K2[PtCl6] species. Under
neutral synthesis conditions, in the direct synthesis of
Pt/MSU-1, anionic (NH4)2PtCl4 was found to be prefer-
able over cationic or neutral precursors [206].
The conventional methods, such as impregnation
techniques, often yield nanoparticles of various sizes in
the mesopores and on the external surface of the support
materials. Yao et al. introduced a new technique desig-
nated
as
vacuum
evaporation
impregnation.
The
MCM-41 was suspended in an aqueous solution of
[Pt(NH3)4](NO3)2 at pH 5, heated at 70C and the water
was evaporated in vacuum. The obtained material
shows a very high Pt dispersion (1.03) at a loading level
of 1.3wt%, measured by CO chemisorption [207]. The
use of supercritical ﬂuids, which have excellent proper-
ties such as low viscosity, high diﬀusivity and controlla-
ble solubility of dissolved species, are a novel method to
overcome the limitations of conventional solvents [208].
Recently, the synthesis of Pt and Rh–Pt alloy particles
supported on FSM-16 via supercritical CO2 has been re-
ported [209,210]. Incorporation of anionic precursor
species into silica from aqueous solution is often diﬃ-
cult, since the silica surface itself is negatively charged
at pH values above approximately 2. Yang et al. [211]
have developed a method to invert the surface charge
of silica by attaching a tetraalkylammonium ion to the
silanol groups via a functionalized alkoxysilane. This
group can be used as an anchor to create well distributed
gold particles within the pores [212]. The catalysts show
remarkable low temperature activity in low temperature
CO oxidation, thus demonstrating, that no strong inter-
action of the gold particles with the support is necessary
for this property [213].
Immobilization of polynuclear molecular transition
metal complexes in porous materials is also a promising
method for the preparation of supported metal cata-
12
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
lysts, because ﬁne tuning of the metal complexes in
terms of electronic states and steric environment is sub-
stantially easier than with the metal salts used in the
conventional catalyst preparation. Metal carbonyl com-
plexes react with the surface silanol groups at elevated
temperature. Continuous adsorption of Co2(CO)8 on
MCM-41 in a ﬂow reactor resulted in a maximum Co
deposition of 20wt%. The metal loading increased up
to 41wt% using the pulse deposition method [214,215].
Platinum carbonyl clusters like [Pt15(CO)30](NR4)2 or
[Pt3(CO)6]5(NR4)2 (R = methyl, ethyl, butyl, hexyl or
methylviologen) can be successfully prepared in FSM-
16 by the ‘‘Ship-in-the-Bottle’’ technique [216,217].
Careful evacuation leads to a desorption of the carbonyl
groups, and the catalysts show remarkable catalytic
activities for hydrogenation of ethene and 1,3-butadiene.
A
super-structure
of
ruthenium
carbonyl
clusters
with
anionic
[H2Ru10(CO)25]2
and
the
cationic
PPN+ (PPN+ = bis(triphenylphosphane)iminium) ion,
[(C6H5)3P@N@P(C6H5)3]+, uniformly stacked through-
out the MCM-41 mesopore, have been observed by
HRTEM [218]. The distance of ‘‘rosary’’-like black dots
along the mesopores, the distance between which being
2.95nm, is consistent with the distance expected for
clusters with two PPN+ ions in a tilted arrangement in
between. After careful removal of the carbonyl group
and the organic counter cations, the obtained nanopar-
ticles become less ordered, but still show hexene and cyc-
looctene hydrogenation activity.
Using mixed metal carbonyl clusters as starting mate-
rials has advantages for the production of eﬃcient
bimetallic
nanoparticle
catalysts.
Good
bimetallic
hydrogenation catalysts based on MCM-41 supported
Cu–Ru
([Ru12C2Cu4Cl2(CO)32][PPN])
[219],
Ru–Sn
([PPN][Ru6C(CO)16SnCl3])
[220],
Pt–Ru
([Ph4P]2-
[Ru5PtC(CO)15], [PPN]2[Ru10Pt2C2(CO)28]) [221], have
been reported by the group of Thomas and Johnson.
The core structure of the bimetallic clusters changes dra-
matically after removal of carbonyl groups [222,223],
however, these systems are good models to investigate
the activity of bimetallic catalysts. For example, in the
hydrogenation of benzoic acid with Ru5Pt and Ru10Pt2
supported on MCM-41 [221], diﬀerent activities are ob-
served; Ru10Pt2 shows a higher activity and selectivity to
cyclohexane carboxylic acid than Ru5Pt. However, the
Ru/Pt ratio of both catalysts is identical, but the struc-
tures diﬀer. Such model systems are thus suitable to elu-
cidate structure–activity relationships (Fig. 5).
Also many diﬀerent metal oxides have been sup-
ported on ordered mesoporous materials. Other than
in the examples discussed above in Section 4.1, we are
dealing with extended oxide structures, even if the par-
ticles are very small. The borderline between surface
grafted species and supported bulk oxides is certainly
not well deﬁned. However, in several cases even the
XRD patterns of the supported oxide phase could be
identiﬁed and one can deﬁnitely consider the material
to be a supported oxide. SBA-15 loaded with ZrO2 re-
tains its mesostructure up to a calcination temperature
of 1000C [224]. Tetragonal ZrO2 is present in samples
calcined above 900C, while the phase transformation
from tetragonal to monoclinic normally takes place
around 450C. This may be related to the small size
of zirconia present in the mesoporous material, since
it has been shown that also small size zirconia particles
precipitated from solution have transition temperatures
of up to 900C [225]. The tetragonal ZrO2 in the SBA-
15 mesopores shows about three times higher capacity
for sulfate adsorption than bulk ZrO2 [226]. Iron oxide
has been deposited on MCM-41 and MCM-48 by the
Table 3
Preparation of mesoporous silica supported metal and metal carbonyl nanoparticles and their application for catalysis
Preparation method
Catalysis
References
Pt
Inclusion in synthetic gel
CO oxidation
[205,206]
Vacuum evaporation
[207]
Super critical CO2
[209]
Ion exchange to positively charged trimethylalkyl
ammonium functionalized surface, and reduction
[211]
Ship-in-the-Bottle
Water–gas shift reaction, alkene hydrogenation
[216,217]
Ph (Rh–Pt)
Super critical CO2
Butane hydrogenolysis to ethane
[210]
Au
Ion exchange to trimethylalkyl ammonium
functional group, and reduction
CO oxidation
[213]
Chemical vapor deposition
CO oxidation
[378]
Ru, Ru–Sn, Ru–Pt, Cu–Ru
Impregnation of carbonyl cluster together
with organic counter cations
Hydrogenation
[218,219,221]
Pd
Vapor phase diﬀusion–deposition
of Pd(g-C5H5)(g3-C3H5)
Heck reaction
[369,370]
Deposition–precipitation
Phenol hydrogenation
[435]
Pd, Au
Inclusion in synthetic gel/incipient wetness
CO oxidation
[379]
Co
Vapor phase diﬀusion–deposition of Co2(CO)8
[214]
Co, Co–Ru
Incipient wetness
CO hydrogenation, Fischer–Tropsch
[373–376]
Ni
Incipient wetness
Benzene hydrogenation
[377]
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
13
incipient wetness technique [227–229]. The UV–vis
spectroscopy results indicate that the band gap of the
resulting iron oxide particles is widened from 2.1 to
4.1eV, depending on the pore diameter of the mesopor-
ous silica used [227,228]. MCM-41 supported c-Fe2O3
prepared by vapor-phase deposition with Fe(CO)5 as
precursor exhibits a superparamagnetic behavior [230].
The
magnetization
of
Fe2O3
increased
when
the
sample was calcined at high temperature, although par-
tial phase transformation from c- to a-Fe2O3 was
observed.
Many other elements are directly or indirectly incor-
porated in the structure of mesoporous materials. Cu(II)
acetate dimer was impregnated on MCM-48 from cop-
per acetate solution [231]. The ESR spectrum of the
dried sample suggests the presence of dimer species
but
not
of
the
monomer.
The
Mn12
oxocluster,
[Mn12O12(O2CR)16(H2O)4] (R@CH3, CH3CH2), can be
incorporated in the channel system of MCM-41 with a
pore diameter of 2.58nm under reﬂux [232]. Small diﬀer-
ences of magnetic properties were observable in the
resultant composite as compared to the microcrystalline
unsupported cluster. The diﬀerence was attributed to a
partial substitution of carboxylate groups of the cluster
with silanol groups of MCM-41. Basic and amphoteric
oxides, such as MgO, Cs2O, Ga2O3 and In2O3 supported
on mesoporous materials can also be prepared by
impregnation of suitable precursor such as cesium ace-
tate or gallium nitrate, and following calcination [233–
236]. On the basis of CO2 temperature programmed
desorption (TPD) measurements, it was inferred that
the Cs2O loaded Al-MCM-41 has a higher amount
and stronger basic sites than Al-MCM-41 ion exchanged
with Cs+ [233]. Nitrogen sorption studies revealed that
the framework of Al-MCM-41 collapsed with increasing
Cs2O loading level. The framework of Al-MCM-41 with
high Si/Al ratio is more stable, because the collapse of
the framework is rather a result of breaking of the Si–
O–Si bonds than that of the Si–O–Al ones [237].
Ga2O3 or In2O3 supported on MCM-41 show catalytic
activity in Michael addition of diethyl malonate to
neopentyl glycol diacrylate [233] or Friedel–Crafts type
benzene benzoylation and acylation [235] reactions.
Highly dispersed rare earth oxides on SBA-15 were re-
ported recently (Fig. 6) [238]. TEM images, nitrogen
sorption measurements, XRD and IR measurements
support the notion of a thin layer coating of the SBA-
15 surface. Such mesoporous silicas thinly coated with
another oxide might give access to a wide range of mate-
rials with diﬀerent surface properties, but the high sur-
face area of ordered mesoporous silica.
Because of the lowering of the formation temperature
when the citrate method is used, LaCoO3 nanoparticles
can be crystallized in the mesopores of ordered meso-
porous silica (pore diameter 3.4nm) [239]. Catalysts
with a high dispersion of the oxide show good methane
oxidation activity, although diﬀusion limitations were
observable in the high loading case.
Inclusion of nanocrystals of well-deﬁned catalytic
phases is another option for the design of supported
oxide catalyst. Zeolite seeds [170–172], as mentioned
above, and polyoxometalates [240–244], for example,
have been supported on mesoporous silica. Although
polyoxometalates, especially 12-tungstophosphoric acid
(H3PW12O40), provides strong acidity, the polyoxometa-
lates normally have a low surface area in the solid state
and therefore, only a limited number of acid sites on the
external surface are available for the catalytic reactions
[245–247]. Mesoporous silica provides an excellent sup-
port for the dispersion of heteropoly acids [242–244].
Isopolyanions such as W10O4
32 [248] Mo7O6
24 [249–251]
and the Al7þ
13 Keggin cation [111], which are all deﬁned
Fig. 5. Relative performances and selectivities of the Ru5Pt and Ru10Pt2 catalysts in MCM-41 compared to other bimetallic nanocatalysts for the
hydrogenation of benzoic acid. Benzoic acid 2.5g (dissolved in 75ml of ethanol); 50mg catalyst; 20 bar H2; 373K, 24h [221].
14
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
metal oxide clusters, can be regarded as excellent precur-
sors for supported oxides.
Tetrahedrally co-ordinated titanium is a good cata-
lyst for alkene oxidation. Immobilization of the titanium
silsesquioxane,
[{(c-C6H11)7Si7O12}Ti(g5-C5H5)],
in
MCM-41 has been reported [252]. In the heterogenized
state this silsesquioxane shows good cyclooctene epoxi-
dation activity using TBHP as an oxidant. However,
undesired leaching of this component was observed un-
der reaction conditions. The leaching can be completely
stopped when MCM-41 was treated with the silylating
agent SiCl2Ph2 prior to the catalytic reaction.
Not only loading of ordered mesoporous solids with
metals or metal oxides but also with chalcogenides is
successful. MCM-41 supported MoS2 was prepared by
incipient wetness impregnation with (NH4)2MoS4, fol-
lowed by in situ activation under H2/H2S gas at
350C, which resulted in a good catalyst for hydro-
desulfurization (HDS) of dibenzothiophene [253]. Ultra-
sonic treatment of a mixture of SBA-15, elemental sulfur
and W(CO)6 in diphenylmethane can introduce amor-
phous WS2 into the mesopores of SBA-15 [119]. Follow-
ing sulﬁdation of the composite with dimethyldisulﬁde
in toluene under hydrogen ﬂow at 320C gave an active
HDS catalyst. Nitrogen sorption and high-resolution
TEM measurements revealed that WS2 is occluded in
the mesopores in form of crystalline nanoslabs (Fig. 7).
4.3. Anchoring of molecular catalysts to the surface
Since heterogenized molecular catalysts are consider-
ably easier to handle, retrieve, and re-cycle than their
homogeneous counterparts, immobilization of homoge-
neous catalysts on solid supports is of high commercial
interest. Ordered mesoporous silica has often been used
for immobilization of molecular catalysts due to the
high surface area. Often, immobilized catalysts suﬀer
from reduced activity upon immobilization, but occa-
sionally, the catalytic performance might improve as
compared to the homogeneous case [254,255]. Immobi-
lized MnðbpyÞ2þ
2
(bpy = 2,20-bipyridine), for example,
exhibits a higher catalytic activity in terms of peroxide
oxidation activity and selectivity for styrene oxidation
than the corresponding homogeneous catalyst [177].
Fig. 7. TEM pictures of the 60wt% WS2/SBA-15 prepared via an ultrasonic treatment method. Various planes of WS2 nanoslabs with diﬀerent
orientations were observed depending on the tilt of the samples in the TEM. (A) 10; (B) 0; (C) +10. The same mesopore is marked by the same
number (1–5) [119].
Fig. 6. (A) N2 sorption isotherms of SBA-15 supported europium doped Y2O3 with diﬀerent rare earth contents (given in the ﬁgure as wt%). The
hysteresis loop of the capillary condensation step is shifted to lower relative pressure without being substantially widened. (B) TEM images of SBA-
15 supported europium-doped Y2O3 viewed parallel to the channel axis. The Eu:Y2O3 content is 28wt% [238].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
15
This is due to the fact that MnðbpyÞ2þ
2
easily forms a di-
mer and in this state preferentially decomposes peroxide
rather than oxidize any substrate. The eﬀective isolation
of catalytic centers in an immobilized catalyst prevents
this dimerization. This eﬀect has not only been observed
for mesoporous silicas, but also isolation of MnðbpyÞ2þ
2
in zeolite cages improves the activity of this system, as
reported by Knops-Gerrits et al. [254].
The standard reactions used for the surface modiﬁca-
tion of silica, i.e. reaction with various functional si-
lanes, can be used also to modify the surface of
ordered mesoporous silica. However, one has to keep
in mind the possible limitations arising from the lower
concentration of silanol groups on the surface (see
above). Excellent surveys over the methods to create dif-
ferent functional groups on the surface which can be
used for the anchoring of other species can be found
in several recent reviews [22,26,105,108].
In the simplest case, the molecular catalysts can just
be adsorbed on the silica surface [252,256–258]. Bianch-
ini et al. [259,260] reported the immobilization of a
rhodium phosphine complex, e.g. (sulfos)Rh(cod) (sul-
fos = O3S(C6H4)CH2C(CH3PPh2)3; cod = cycloocta-1,5-
diene), on amorphous silica which occurs via hydrogen
bonding between the sulfonate tail of the ligand func-
tional group and the surface silanol groups (Scheme
1). The IR, Rh K-edge EXAFS and CP MAS
31P
NMR studies support the existence of an interaction be-
tween complex and silica surface. However, since the
interaction is normally relatively weak in these cases,
leaching easily occurs if polar or protic solvents such
as methanol or ethanol are used.
The leaching problem is most frequently encountered
for incorporated enzymes. The large pore sizes and the
open-pore structure of mesoporous materials, as com-
pared to conventional amorphous silica encapsulated
enzyme, allow the loading of enzyme into the pores with
free access of substrates [261–264]. However, it appears
that the open-pore structure of mesoporous silica leads
to easy leaching of the encapsulated enzyme. In order
to minimize leaching, suitable polarity of solvent or a
close ﬁtting of the enzyme to the pore in order to max-
imize the van der Waals interaction are required
[261,264,265]. Silylation to partially close the channels
of mesoporous silica is one of the methods to prevent
leaching [261]. Functionalization of the mesopore sur-
face with carboxylic acid, thiol or amine groups etc.
can change the surface polarity and improve the immo-
bilization [263,266].
However, even if leaching can be reduced by one of
the methods discussed above, it may still pose a serious
problem if solvents are present in which the immobilized
species is readily dissolved [256,257]. Therefore, often a
co-valently attached anchor group is used to immobilize
the molecular catalyst in the pore system. Fig. 8 gives a
sketch of the more frequently used anchor groups which
have been reported for the immobilization of molecular
catalysts. Functional alkoxysilanes are favored for this
purpose. These precursors are readily commercially
available with diﬀerent functional groups, such as alkyl-
amine or alkylthiol, which can be further functionalized
to provide optimal binding to the silica surface. One
should keep in mind that for immobilized molecular cat-
alysts, the selectivity for a certain product might change
depending on the length of the tether [267,268] or spe-
ciﬁc functional group integrated in the tether [269].
Attachment of the molecular catalyst can be achieved
via a wide variety of methods, following two principally
diﬀerent approaches. Either ﬁrst ligands for the metal
are immobilized with which the metal is reacted in a sub-
sequent step, or the surface functional group is provided
Scheme 1.
X (X = Cl, Br)
CN
SH
NH2
O
O
O
Si
O
O
O
Si
O
O
Oi
Si
O
O
O
Si
O
O
O
Si
COOH
O
O
O
Si
SO3H
O
O
O
Si
NR3Cl (R = Me, Et)
Fig. 8. Sketch of frequently used functionalized alkylsilanes for
anchoring molecular catalysts. These functional groups can also be
used as active sites in adsorbents or catalysts by themselves.
16
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
with a chemical function which reacts with a ligand side
group to provide the bond of the complex to the surface.
An example for the anchoring of an enantioselective pal-
ladium catalyst has been reported by Johnson and
Raynor et al. [270] (Fig. 9). Following the ﬁrst strategy
(pathway (A)), a phosphine modiﬁed ferrocene was at-
tached to the surface of the silica via an alkoxysilane,
then reaction with PdCl2 resulted in the formation of
the catalyst, with the Pd co-ordinated to two chloride
and the two phosphine ligands. Alternatively, as an
example for the second strategy (pathway (B)), a silane
functionalized ferrocene ligand could be synthesized
including PdCl2 anchored to the grafting reagent [271].
The palladium phosphine was then loaded into the mes-
oporous MCM-41. These methods should produce the
same active site, although the reactivity may slightly dif-
fer. From the viewpoint of characterization of the cata-
lysts prepared, the latter approach is preferable because
the active site can be analyzed before linkage (assuming
that it is not destroyed upon linking).
A particularly useful route for the surface modiﬁca-
tion of ordered mesoporous silica is the silylamide route
introduced by Anwander [272–275]. This route allows to
anchor a metal complex to the surface and simultane-
ously caps all remaining silanol groups by reaction with
the silylamines formed in the immobilization reaction
(Fig. 10). Following ligand exchange of the resultant
silylamide–MCM
complex
with
various
ligands,
such as fod (1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptaﬂuoro-7,7-dimethyl-4,6-
octanedionate), provides highly dispersed metal centers
possessing stable Si–O–metal linkages. Because of the
steric hindrance between pore wall and bulky ligand,
an immobilized catalyst, yittrium-fod for example, had
an increased diastereoselectivity in the Diels–Alder-cyc-
lization of trans-1-methoxy-3-trimethylsilyloxy-1,3-but-
adiene with benzaldehyde of 70% instead of the 41%
observed for the free catalyst [273,275].
While the better separability is a good incentive for
immobilization of molecular catalysts, it is even more
rewarding, if the immobilized systems have an improved
activity, regio- or enantioselectivity compared to the
homogeneous counterparts. Such improvements have
been observed, and the enhancement of selectivity might
be explained by the steric constraints which the support
with the uniform mesopores imposes on the catalytically
active species; the reaction must take place in the re-
stricted space between catalytic center(s), chiral ligand
group and the pore walls (Fig. 11) [276]. The conﬁne-
ment of the substrate in the mesoporous channel could
then lead to a larger inﬂuence of the chiral directing
group on the orientation of the substrate relative
to the reactive catalytic center when compared to the
Fig. 9. Schematic sketch of the synthetic routes for immobilizing Pd-1,10-bis(diphenylphosphino) ferrocene. (A) Phosphine modiﬁed ferrocene is
attached to bromopropyl silane which was previously grafted to the mesopore surface, then the active center, PdCl2 is complexed with the phosphine
groups. (B) Silane modiﬁed ferrocene ligand, including the Pd center, is ﬁrst prepared and then grafted to the silica surface [270,271].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
17
situation in the homogeneous reaction [276]. For exam-
ple, in the allylic amination of cinnamyl acetate and
benzylamine,
the
Pd(II)-1,10-bis(diphenylphosphino)
ferrocene tethered to mesoporous silica (Fig. 9, pathway
(A)) produces a branched product with 51% selectivity,
while the selectivity in the homogeneous case and a cat-
alyst linked to amorphous silica are close to zero and
2%, respectively (Scheme 2) [270]. In addition, the enan-
tioselectivity of the catalyst immobilized on ordered
mesoporous silica is dramatically changed from 43%
on amorphous silica to close to 100%. These results with
an MCM-41 supported catalyst show that a signiﬁcant
improvement in regio- and enantioselectivity can occur,
which is attributed to the spatial restrictions imposed by
the mesopore. A similar pore conﬁnement eﬀect has
been proposed not only for mesoporous silica but also
for zeolite (USY) supported organometallic catalysts
[277]. Careful control of pore diameter as well as design
of active centers will be necessary to develop other eﬀec-
tive solid catalysts which use conﬁnement eﬀects to im-
prove the performance of molecular catalysts.
4.4. Fully non-siliceous materials
The discovery that surfactant micelles can be used for
the templating of ordered mesoporous materials also
opened up routes for new synthetic strategies in the
preparation of various other oxides with high surface
area and ordered pore systems [16,23,24,30,278]. Meso-
porous materials composed of transition metal oxides
are attractive solid catalysts, catalyst supports and host
materials for nanocomposites. Unfortunately, thermal
stabilities of these obtained mesoporous materials are
in many cases less satisfactory than for silica. The
incomplete condensation of the inorganic framework,
change of the valence and/or co-ordination state of the
wall component during calcination, as well as thin wall
thickness and re-crystallization of the oxide forming
the walls, are the reasons for this low thermal stability.
Nevertheless, many diﬀerent non-silica materials have
been synthesized over the last ten years, treated in more
detail in several reviews [16,24,30,278]. If the as-synthe-
sized material is not stable towards calcination as it is,
post-synthesis stabilization, for instance with phos-
phoric acid, which is successful in the case of aluminum
[279], titanium [53] and zirconium [280], provides the
Ln[N(SiHMe2)2]n(THF)
Ln = La, Sc, Y, Sm, Al etc.
HL
-HN(SiHMe2)2
-HN(SiHMe2)2
 OH
 OH
 OH
 OH
O
O
O
O
O
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
Ln
 O
 O
 O
 O
O
O
O
O
O
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
N(SiHMe2)2
N(SiHMe2)2
 SiHMe2
Ln N(SiHMe2)2
(THF)
(THF)
Ln
 O
 O
 O
 O
O
O
O
O
O
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
Si
 SiHMe2
Ln
L
L
L
(THF)
(THF)
(n-C3F7)
O
O
(tert-Bu)
(fod)
= fod etc.
L
Fig. 10. Schematic sketch of the silylamide route. Lewis acidic elements, such as aluminum or lanthanoids, are immobilized with simultaneous
surface silylation. Subsequent ligand exchange (e.g. fod) releases the silylamine and activates the catalytic center [272–275].
Fig. 11. Schematic representation of the conﬁnement concept [276].
Scheme 2.
18
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
additional condensation necessary to produce a material
which can be calcined.
If a block co-polymer is used as template, products
with relatively thick walls are formed which helps to
solve
some
of
the
problems
mentioned
above
[64,65,281]. Re-crystallization, for instance, is less of a
problem, since the walls are suﬃciently thick to accom-
modate crystalline oxide nanoparticles. A whole series
of diﬀerent oxides, some with amorphous walls, some
with crystalline walls, could be synthesized following
the synthesis procedure developed ﬁrst for SBA-15.
For the synthesis of non-silica compositions, typically
metal chlorides are reacted in alcoholic solutions in the
presence of triblock co-polymer templates [64,65].
Several reports of the synthesis of non-silica meso-
porous materials have been published, together with
catalysis results. For example, vanadium incorporated
mesoporous titania was used for propene oxidation
[282]. It was found that the rate of CO and CO2 forma-
tion was 1.7 and 5.0 times higher than that measured
over vanadium impregnated commercial TiO2. Metha-
nol decomposition over Pd supported on mesoporous
titanium oxide has also been investigated [283]. The
activity of this catalyst was also higher than over Pd
supported on commercial titanium oxide.
The ‘‘one-pot’’ co-condensation reaction of diﬀer-
ently functionalized alkoxysilanes in the presence of a
templating reagent is an alternative route in the prepara-
tion of organic–inorganic hybrid materials. Although
one does not obtain materials with a framework consist-
ing completely of non-silica elements, the materials can
have remarkable properties, which justify to speciﬁcally
mention these materials. Many organosilane reagents
such as alkyltrialkoxysilanes (RSi(OEt)3), or especially
silsesquioxanes with bridging organic groups, such as
(EtO)3Si–R–Si(OEt)3
with
R = methylene,
ethylene,
phenylene,
vinylene,
or
benzene
are
used
[102–
104,284–286]. Using 3-aminopropyltrialkoxysilane as a
co-precursor, Macquarrie prepared HMS type mesopor-
ous silica with pendant 3-aminopropyl chains in the
mesopores [103]. After solvent extraction of the templat-
ing agent, this aminopropylated mesoporous silica was
used as a base catalyst in the Knoevenagel condensation
of aldehydes and ketones with ethyl cyanoacetate. In
terms of the turnover number, estimated from the num-
ber of mole of products and that of the NH2 group
attached,
compared
to
aminopropyl
functionalized
amorphous SiO2, signiﬁcant improvements were ob-
served in hybrid mesoporous silica [284]. The organic
group implanted in the pore walls can be functionalized
by post-treatment. For example, Inagaki et al. [286] re-
ported the sulfonation of benzene–silica hybrid meso-
porous
material.
In
these
materials
the
benzene
moieties are fully incorporated in the walls as integral
parts of the wall structure (O3„Si–C6H4–Si„O3).
Treatment with 25% SO3/H2SO4 solution gave a sulfonic
acid-functionalized mesoporous material. The resultant
sulfonated materials were stable up to 500C in air or
nitrogen. It was also possible to substitute framework
Si with Ti in these inorganic–organic nanocomposites
[115,287,288]. Bhaumik and Tatsumi [115,287] synthe-
sized methyl-, vinyl-, allyl-, 3-chloropropyl-, pentyl-,
and phenyl-modiﬁed mesoporous titanosilicates from
mixtures
of
TEOS,
organotriethoxysilane,
TBOT,
CTAB, tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAOH),
and H2O. The eﬃciency of Ti incorporation is higher
when organosilane is used as Si source in conjunction
with TEOS instead of TEOS alone. The highest Ti incor-
poration was achieved with a Si/Ti ratio of 38.9 in 3-
chloropropyl modiﬁed material, with large pores and
high surface area (1218m2/g).
Interesting non-silica materials can be synthesized, if
the siliceous ordered mesoporous materials are used as
hard templates in a nanocasting process (Fig. 1). This
method was especially useful for the synthesis of a new
class of mesoporous platinum and carbon [36,289–
292]. After loading platinum or carbon in mesoporous
silica and following dissolution of the silica mold with
HF or NaOH solution, mesoporous Pt or carbon mate-
rials with the negative replica structure of MCM-41
[293], MCM-48 [294,295], or SBA-15 [66,68,69] could
be obtained. A second nanocasting step, in which these
ordered carbon materials are ﬁlled with an inorganic
precursor, and following removal of the carbon template
results in the formation of a direct replica porous mate-
rial of the original mold [37,93,296]. Although this dou-
ble replication for silica is ineﬃcient because the
properties of the ﬁnal product are not drastically diﬀer-
ent from the starting material, some diﬀerences to the
texture and structure of the original silica may exist,
such as a diﬀerent fraction of micropores in the materi-
als [94]. It may be valuable, though, for other composi-
tions that are more diﬃcult to synthesize directly via
surfactant-based pathways. Very recently, on the other
hand, ordered mesoporous transition metal oxides such
as CeO2, Cr2O3, NiO, OsO4, Co3O4 or In2O3 were re-
ported, using SBA-15 as a template [86–92]. The nega-
tive replica structure of these transition metal oxides
obtained from the SBA-15 original is restricted with re-
spect to pore size engineering. Nevertheless, functional
materials may be accessible via this route, and also
backcasting from such materials can be envisioned.
Mesoporous
materials with
zeolitic
microporous
walls have already been described. In addition to the
pathways described in this connection, using carbon as
a meso/macropore template is another possibility to cre-
ate bimodal zeolite monoliths. Jacobsen et al. [297]
impregnated ﬁne carbon black particles having average
particle diameters of 12nm with a zeolite synthesis gel.
After hydrothermal treatment to crystallize ZSM-5,
the carbon particles were removed by calcination. The
pores created by combustion of carbon particles resulted
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
19
in the formation of mesopores in the zeolite crystals
(Scheme 3). Also crystallization of MFI type zeolites
in the presence of carbon nanoﬁbers induced the forma-
tion of a mesopore system in zeolite single crystals [6].
Tao et al. used mesoporous carbon aerogel as a mold
for ZSM-5 particle growth [298].
It should be mentioned at the end of this section, that
3D meso- or macroporous materials can be prepared by
Latex spheres as template [299,300]. Not only silica but
also many kinds of non-silica porous materials, such as
TiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, Fe2O3, WO3 and MgO, which are
useful for catalysis or as catalyst supports, has been re-
ported [301,302]. Macroporous vanadyl pyrophosphate
having (VO)2P2O7 crystals in its wall has been reported,
although the catalytic activity of these VPO type mate-
rials is not clear [303,304]. 3D macroporous materials
having the MFI zeolite structure in the walls are also
accessible by using Latex spheres [137]. The small wall
thickness of these zeolite monoliths is expected to im-
prove the reaction eﬃciency because of the short diﬀu-
sion
path.
Such
an
eﬀect
has
been
reported
by
Christensen et al. [305], an improved selectivity to ethyl-
benzene in benzene alkylation over a mesoporous zeolite
as compared with conventional zeolite particles.
5. Catalysis
5.1. Highly dispersed active sites — as an extension of
microporous zeolite catalysts
Possibly the greatest hope in the initial phase of re-
search on ordered mesoporous materials was their ex-
pected use in FCC catalysis. In this respect, substantial
eﬀorts have focused on the potential activity of Al-
MCM-41 in processing bulky hydrocarbon molecules.
However, their relatively low hydrothermal stability
and the relatively low acid strength limit their suitability
in this ﬁeld. In other reactions that require milder acidity
and also involve bulky reactants and products, such as
mild hydrocracking reactions, however, mesoporous
materials exhibit great potential [15]. Furthermore, one
of the most important features of ordered mesoporous
oxides is their exceptionally high surface area. This
can be exploited to create highly dispersed active species
on interacting and non-interacting support materials.
Ordered mesoporous oxides have been used as supports
for metals, metal oxides and as a host material for
anchoring stereo- and enantioselective species, such a
certain molecular catalysts.
In the following, we will focus on catalytic examples
which exploit the possible high dispersion of the active
site, such as in framework substituted materials, by sup-
ported metals or metal oxides, or grafted molecular spe-
cies. Mesoporous materials with narrow pore size
distribution may in future replace zeolite catalysts in
some commercial applications, and in many research
applications they already now have a comparable and
superior performance compared to conventional micro-
porous zeolites or amorphous silica–alumina catalysts,
although it is not always clear that the right zeolite cat-
alyst had been chosen as a benchmark. The early part of
the following section presents some interesting develop-
ments in acid–base and redox catalysis over ordered
mesoporous materials. In the later part we will mainly
focus on metal or metal oxide supported catalysts and
grafted molecular species.
5.1.1. Acid catalysis
5.1.1.1. Cracking and other petrochemical conversions.
Mesoporous materials have been extensively investi-
gated with regard to their use in cracking and hydro-
cracking
reactions.
The
patent
literature
contains
many examples, but cannot be reviewed in detail here.
Many references to the early patent literature, however,
can be found in the review given by Corma [15]. Unfor-
tunately, the disadvantages of low acid strength and low
hydrothermal stability of MCM-41 catalysts are a coun-
terbalance to the advantage of the accessibility of the
pores even for larger molecules. Nevertheless, MCM-
41 catalysts show substantial cracking activity for bulky
substances such as palm oil and asphaltene [306,307].
FSM-16 analogous mesoporous silicas are active in the
thermal degradation of polyethylene to fuel oil [308].
The initial rate of degradation was as fast as over amor-
phous silica–alumina and the yield of liquid products
was higher.
For small molecules, such as 1-butene, n-hexane, n-
heptane or small cyclic hydrocarbons such as tetralin
and decaline, the cracking activity of MCM-41 is much
lower than that of USY or Beta zeolites, and similar to
that of amorphous silica–alumina [154,309–313]. In
addition, steam treatment, which was used as a way to
simulate ﬂuidized catalytic cracking, results in a collapse
of the mesopore structure and a decrease in activity far
below that of steam-treated aluminosilicate [312]. The
perspectives of the materials in FCC applications thus
seem to be limited.
There is also the possibility to induce activity in acid
catalyzed reactions by suitable modiﬁcation of silica or
Scheme 3.
20
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
aluminosilicate MCM-41. Sulfated ZrO2 supported on
MCM-41 shows comparable activity with bulk sulfated
ZrO2 catalyst in both cumene and 1,3,5-triisopropylben-
zene cracking [314]. Catalyst deactivation was slower for
the supported catalyst compared to bulk sulfated ZrO2.
In the condensation of tert-butanol and methanol over
sulfated tetragonal ZrO2 supported on SBA-15, the sup-
ported catalyst showed about 2 times higher yield of
MTBE than bulk zirconia [226]. ZrO2/SBA-15 also
shows high activity in dehydration of 2-propanol, the
conversion of 2-propanol were 9.2% and 13.2% at 48
and 60wt% loading, respectively, whereas that of bulk
zirconia was only up to about 6%. Also heteropoly acids
can be supported on MCM-41 type materials. The
catalytic
activity
of
MCM-41
(SBET = 939m2/g,
Vp = 0.60cm3/g, Dp = 2.60nm), supported heteropoly
acid, H3PW12O40, in the cracking of 1,3,5-triisopropyl-
benzene initially increased with increasing heteropoly
acid loading, and reached a maximum at around
23wt% loading [243]. The high dispersion of the hetero-
poly acid and its strong interaction with the MCM-41
surface is assumed to be the origin for the high catalytic
activity. At higher loading level, the regular structure of
MCM-41 was lost and the activity decreased to approach
that of bulk heteropoly acid. Similar catalysts (33wt%
loading) are also active in liquid phase and vapor phase
esteriﬁcation reactions [242]. XRD and TEM studies on
these materials revealed that the initially highly dispersed
polyoxometalates became mobile and migrated to form
large clusters (10nm) on the outer surface after
reaction.
Fluorinated
MCM-41
(SBET = 1311m2/g,
Vp = 1.03cm3/g, Dp = 3.14nm) improves the stability
for heteropoly acid loading and incorporates heteropoly
acid up to 50wt% [244]. The catalyst with 50wt% loading
shows an excellent gas-phase MTBE synthesis activity.
The conversion of tert-butanol and the selectivity at
100C were 98% and 100%, respectively, which are com-
parable to a commercial Amberlyst-15. The strong
Brønsted acid sites are attributed to the presence of small
clusters of heteropoly acid.
Oligomerization of butene at 150C and 1.5–2MPa
has been investigated over zeolites, amorphous silica–
alumina, and ordered mesoporous aluminosilicates.
The mesoporous catalyst exhibited high selectivity and
good stability with time for the production of branched
dimers, while strongly adsorbed residue was formed
over microporous zeolites and amorphous silica–alu-
mina, and fast deactivation occurred over these materi-
als [315]. In 1-hexene dimerization, monobranched C12
isomers are the main products, and the activity of Al-
MCM-41 is very similar to that of amorphous silica–alu-
mina [310]. Selectivity to cracking products of saturated
C6 compounds is very low as compared to US-Y or Beta
zeolites.
The pore diameter of mesoporous materials is too
large to expect any shape selectivity in conversions of
small hydrocarbons [311]. Conversion of 1-butene over
mesoporous materials increases with increasing alumi-
num content, while the selectivity for isobutene de-
creases. Ammonia TPD, IR analysis, and TG analysis
were performed to conﬁrm that the higher concentration
of activated 1-butene molecules on the mesoporous
material with high aluminum content accelerates the
mutimolecular oligomerization, and, thus, reduces the
selectivity. For very large substrates, however, one
may expect shape selectivity in certain conversions.
For example, in benzene alkylation with linear 1-oleﬁns
with a chain length of C6 to C16 by AlCl3-grafted MCM-
41 (pore diameter of 3.34nm), selectivity to mono-sub-
stituted alkyl benzene was increased and the formation
of
multi-substituted
products
was
decreased
with
increasing alkyl chain length of the oleﬁn (Table 5)
[316]. If 1-octene is used as the alkylation agent, the
selectivity to the monoalkylated benzene is increased
with decrease of the mesopore diameter of the catalyst.
5.1.2. Acid/base reactions for ﬁne chemicals synthesis
Although the inherent weakness of the acid sites in
mesoporous materials restricts their applicability in
many petrochemical reactions, there still is potential
for their use in reactions which require a lower level of
acidity, such as the Friedel–Crafts alkylation of electron
rich aromatic compounds (Table 4). In addition, the
rather large pore openings of mesoporous materials oﬀer
the advantage of eﬀective diﬀusion of bulky substances
as they are often found in ﬁne chemicals synthesis.
One of the earliest examples is that of a Friedel–Crafts
alkylation with mesoporous aluminosilicates. The Al-
MCM-41 with a pore diameter of 3.0nm is active in
the Friedel–Crafts alkylation of 2,4-di-tert-butylphenol
with cinnamyl alcohol. The following acid catalyzed
intramolecular ring closing reaction gives dihydrobenzo-
pyran [317]. The yield over Al-MCM-41 (35%) was
much higher than over HY zeolite (<1%), suggesting
that diﬀusion restrictions of the bulky 2,4-di-tert-butyl-
phenol exist in the zeolite. Somewhat more eﬀective than
the unmodiﬁed HY zeolite was USY zeolite (mesopore
diameter of 2.0–6.0nm resulting from the ultrastabiliza-
tion treatment). However, the selectivity is very low (9%)
compared to Al-MCM-41 because the acid site concen-
tration decreases by the dealumination process. Further-
more,
Al-MCM-41
gave
a
much
higher
yield
of
dihydrobenzopyran than conventional catalysts, such
as H2SO4 (12%) and amorphous silica–alumina (6%)
catalysts. These results clearly indicate the potentials of-
fered by mesoporous materials in ﬁne chemical synthesis
with bulky substrates.
The catalytic activity in the alkylation of unsubsti-
tuted phenol with methanol over Al-MCM-41, which
had been modiﬁed by grafting of an alumina-multilayer,
was up to 2.3 times higher than that of a reference alu-
mina catalyst [161]. In the Friedel–Crafts alkylation of
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
21
benzene with benzyl chloride in liquid phase, Ga
impregnated MCM-41 exhibited higher activity than
Ga substituted MCM-41 [182]. In series consisting of
Fe-impregnated MCM-41, Al-MCM-41, La-MCM-41,
and Fe-USY zeolite in the same reaction, the Fe-impreg-
nated MCM-41 showed the highest activity [318].
Acetalization is an important reaction for the protec-
tion of carbonyl functional groups. This reaction does
not require strong acid sites, and therefore, mesoporous
silicas with weak to intermediate acid site strength are
suitable catalysts in this reaction [319,320]. For example,
acetalization of heptanal, 2-phenylpropanal or diphenyl-
acetaldehyde with trimethyl orthoformate was carried
out over siliceous and Al-substituted MCM-41 on the
one hand and diﬀerent zeolite catalysts on the other
[319]. Zeolite Beta and zeolite Y catalysts were found
to be more active than mesoporous materials, but they
deactivated more rapidly. There was no diﬀerence in
activity between siliceous MCM-41 and Al-MCM-41,
indicating that the bridging hydroxyl groups (Si–OH–
Al) are of minor importance in this reaction and that
probably silanol groups are suﬃcient for catalysis in this
case. Furthermore, it was found that when the size of the
reactant increased, mesoporous molecular sieves had
clear advantages over the zeolites, as was observed in
many other reactions discussed in this contribution.
Acetalization is one of the reaction steps to produce
jasminaldehyde. Al-MCM-41 having uniform meso-
pores (around 3.5nm) is suitable for carrying out the
three consecutive reactions in one-pot to produce a-n-
amylcinnamaldehyde (jasminaldehyde) in good yield
[320]. The reaction involves (1) the acetalization of hept-
Table 5
Selectivities for the alkylation of benzene with 1-alkenes over homogeneous (free AlCl3) and heterogeneous (AlCl3-grafted MCM-41) catalysts [316]
Alkene
Catalysta
Selectivity toward alkylbenzenesb
Mono-c
Di-
Tri-
1-Hexene
Homog.
58.6
31.1
10.3
Heterog.
79.9
20.1
–
1-Octene
Homog.
66.0
24.3
9.7
Heterog.
79.7
20.3
–
1-Decene
Homog.
68.5
22.5
9.0
Heterog.
91.1
8.9
–
1-Dodecene
Homog.
72.5
27.5
d
Heterog.
96.2
3.8
–
1-Tetradecene
Homog.
70.1
29.9
d
Heterog.
98.5
1.5
–
1-Hexadecene
Homog.
77.5
22.5
d
Heterog.
>99.0
<1.0
–
a Homog.: homogeneous catalysis with AlCl3 (0.15 mmol); heterog.: over AlCl3-MCM-41 (Dp = 3.34nm, 0.15g of catalyst containing 0.15mmol
of AlClx).
b Determined by GC of the product mixture.
c Exclusively linear alkyl benzenes.
d Nonvolatile product, not analyzed by GC.
Table 4
Example of ﬁne chemical reactions catalyzed over mesoporous catalysts
Reaction
Mesoporous catalysts
Substrates
Reference
Friedel–Crafts alkylation
Al(OPri)3 grafted
Phenol + methanol
[161]
Ga-substituted/impregnated
Benzene + benzyl chloride
[182]
Al-substituted
2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol + cinnamyl alcohol
[317]
Fe-impregnated
Benzene + benzyl chloride
[318]
Acetalization
Siliceous/Al-substituted
Heptanal, 2-phenylpropanal,
diphenylacetaldehyde + trimethyl orthoformate
[319]
Al-substituted
Heptanal + methanol
[320]
siliceous
Cyclohexanone + methanol
[321]
Diels–Alder
Al(OPri)3 grafted
Cyclopentadiene + crotonaldehyde
[323]
Zn2+-ion exchanged
Cyclopentadiene + methylacrylate
[173]
Beckmann rearrangement
Al-substituted
Cyclohexanone oxime
[324]
Aldol condensation
Al-substituted
Heptanal + benzaldehyde (!jasminaldehyde)
[320]
Prins condensation
Sn-substituted
b-Pinene + paraformaldehyde
[325]
MPV-reduction
Zr(OPr), Al(OPri)3-grafted
4-tert-butylcyclohexanone + 2-propanol
[163]
Metathesis
Siliceous
Propene
[326]
(Esteriﬁcation)
Cs+-ion exchanged
Triolein + glycerol
[329]
(Etheriﬁcation)
Cs-impregnated
Glycerol
[236]
22
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
anal with methanol, (2) slow hydrolysis of the dimethy-
lacetal, and (3) Aldol condensation of the two aldehydes
(Scheme 4). From the comparison of several catalysts,
including large pore zeolite (Beta) and mesoporous sil-
ica–alumina with various Si/Al ratios, it was concluded
that a suitable catalysts should have mild acidity to
avoid an excessive self-condensation of the aldehyde
and undesired consecutive reaction. In addition, large
and regular pores with a uniform pore diameter are also
required, which enables fast diﬀusion of the products
avoiding the side reactions.
Very recently, Iwamoto et al. [321] reported a pore
size eﬀect in the acetalization of cyclohexanone on
MCM-41 (Fig. 12). The highest catalytic activity was
obtained by MCM-41 with a pore diameter of 1.9nm,
and the reaction rate constant decreased when either
narrower or wider pores were used. The high activity
of the 1.9nm pore size catalyst was attributed to the fact
that the surface silanol groups are all oriented towards
the center of pores, and they are thus assumed to work
as an ensemble. Such an assembly might create very ac-
tive sites for acid catalysis, the authors proposed. The
decrease of activity in narrower pores was attributed
to diﬀusion limitations. For wider pores, the co-opera-
tive action of diﬀerent silanol groups is no longer
operative.
Aluminum substituted mesoporous silica exhibits bet-
ter activity in Diels–Alder reactions with large organic
molecules compared to conventional microporous zeo-
lites (ZSM-5, HY) or ion exchange resins [322,323]. In
the reaction of cyclopentadiene with crotonaldehyde,
aluminum isopropoxide grafted MCM-41 shows the
highest activity compared to directly prepared or tem-
plate ion-exchanged Al-MCM-41. The activity increases
with increasing amount of Al incorporated up to a level
of Al/(Si + Al) = 0.04mol/mol. Mesoporous aluminosil-
icate, ion-exchanged with ZnCl2, was found to be eﬀec-
tive in the Diels–Alder reaction of cyclopentadiene and
methylacrylate [173]. The yield of products was as high
as 90%, and the amount of polymerized side products
was lower than with a homogeneous BF3ÆOEt2 Lewis
catalyst. The mild acidity of the ordered mesoporous
aluminosilicate is eﬀectively used in these reactions.
The weak or intermediate strength acid sites are also
eﬀective for the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexa-
none oxime to give e-caprolactam [324]. Mesoporous Al-
MCM-41 exhibited higher activity and selectivity com-
pared to amorphous silica–alumina in the vapor-phase
reaction with 1-hexanol as a diluent.
Tin modiﬁed materials were found to be interesting
catalysts for a number of important organic reactions.
Sn-MCM-41 showed high activity in the Prins conden-
sation of b-pinene and paraformaldehyde to nopol
[325]. Conversion of b-pinene reached around 99% with
good selectivity, whereas a reference amorphous silica
catalyst only showed 37% conversion. No loss of activity
was observed after ﬁve cycles.
The Meerwein–Ponndorf–Verley (MPV) reaction is a
useful reduction of a carbonyl substrate with a secondary
alcohol. Zirconium 1-propoxide grafted SBA-15 shows
high activity in this reaction and the rate of reaction in-
creased with increasing Zr loading level [163]. It seems
that the pore system of the support material inﬂuences
the catalytic activity. In the reduction of 4-tert-butylcy-
clohexanone with 2-propanol, the initial conversion
Scheme 4.
Fig. 12. Catalytic activity for the acetalization of cyclohexanone with
methanol in dependence of the pore diameter of silica MCM-41 [321].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
23
was in the order MCM-41 > MCM-48 > SBA-15. In
addition, the selectivity to the corresponding cis-alcohol
was increased with decrease of the mesopore diameter,
suggesting a stereoselectivity due to the pore structure.
A Zr-grafted SBA-15 had higher activity than Al(OPri)3
grafted SBA-15, the conversion of the latter catalyst
being about half of the former.
Siliceous mesoporous materials catalyze a propene
photometathesis [326]. The relative activities of FSM-
16, MCM-41, and amorphous silica, pre-evacuated at
800C under 133 mbar O2, were roughly 4:2:1. The
activity of each of the three catalysts increased with
increasing the pre-treatment temperature in the range
of 400–800C. The ESR and VUV–UV–vis spectra sug-
gest the generation of nonbridging oxygen hole centers
(NBOHC) during high temperature vacuum treatment.
Therefore, the active center for this reaction was con-
cluded to be a strained siloxane bridge [327,328].
Not many examples are known for base catalysis over
modiﬁed ordered mesoporous materials (some more
examples where grafted basic groups are used will be
discussed below). Cesium ion exchanged Al-MCM-41
(Si/Al = 13) can catalyze transesteriﬁcation reactions,
such as the glycerolysis of triolein with glycerol,
although bulk MgO or hydrotalcite which have higher
basicity than Cs/Al-MCM-41 are more active [329].
Selective etheriﬁcation of glycerol to obtain di- or tri-
glycerol—these glycerol oligomers and their methyl es-
ters are becoming more and more important in new
products for surfactants, lubricants, cosmetics, food
additives etc.—can be carried out over Cs-impregnated
MCM-41 [236]. In La or Mg containing mesoporous
catalysts, the glycerol dehydration to acrolein is very sig-
niﬁcant. Framework cerium substituted MCM-41 has
an activity for vapor phase dehydration of cyclohexanol
to cyclohexene [330].
5.1.3. Redox catalysis
There are numerous reports in the literature about re-
dox reactions on framework modiﬁed ordered mesopor-
ous materials or materials which had been altered by
grafting of active species. In many cases it is very diﬃ-
cult to judge the performance of such materials, because
the reaction conditions are often not comparable with
each other and no proper benchmarks are analyzed.
Ti-zeolites, such as TS-1, TS-2, and Ti-b, are eﬀective
catalysts in the oxidation of a variety of organic com-
pounds [331–333]. Such materials are known since the
early 1980s. Ti containing mesoporous materials as well
as those modiﬁed with early transition metals, such as
Zr, V, Cr, Mn, or Fe, were expected to be promising oxi-
dation catalysts as well. Titanium modiﬁed MCM-41
was therefore already very early in the research on or-
dered mesoporous materials studied as selective oxida-
tion catalyst [184,334]. Such mesoporous materials
present the clear advantage of a large pore system, ena-
bling the oxidation of much larger hydrocarbons. Up to
the discovery of modiﬁed ordered mesoporous materi-
als, only Ti-b, a large pore zeolite, allowed relatively
bulky peroxides to be used as oxidants and to process
sterically demanding substrates.
Leaching is a particular problem of solid catalysts in
liquid-phase processes, and especially in oxidation reac-
tions with peroxides, which is attributed to the strong
complexing and solvolytic properties of oxidants and
products [335]. Signiﬁcant Ti-leaching has been reported
for the liquid-phase oxidation of crotylalcohol using Ti-
b and Ti-MCM-41 (Table 6) [336]. Ti-leaching was ob-
Table 6
Oxidation of crotylalcohol with hydrogen peroxide and tert-butyl hydroperoxide at 50Ca [336]
Catalyst
Oxidant
Time (h)
Crotylalcohol
conversion (%)
Yield (%)
Ti-leaching (ppm)b
Epoxide
Triol
Ether diols
TS-1
H2O2
217.1
89.7
0
80.4
9.3
0.2
Ti–Alb
189.6
87.9
0.8
70.7
16.4
26.8
Ti-b
168.9
23.7
7.7
10.1
5.9
7.9
Ti-MCM-41
1.7
0
0
0
0
2.9
169.1
83.9
1.0
67.0
15.9
18.0
Cp2TiCl2-grafted MCM-41
1.4
3.6
3.6
0
0
8.3
169.3
45.1
5.3
29.8
10.0
24.0
Ti–Al-MCM-41
62.3
10.5
5
0
10.5
4.7
168.9
73.1
1.6
55.4
16.2
10.0
TS-1
TBHP
198
0
0
0
0
0
Ti–Alb
104.7
63.2
0
54.8
8.4
1.3
Ti-b
194.1
10.3
10.3
0
0
3.0
Ti-MCM-41
48.0
1.6
1.6
0
0
n.a.
191.7
3.4
3.4
0
0
2.0
Cp2TiCl2-grafted MCM-41
198
0
0
0
0
0
TiCl4 grafted Al-MCM-41
198
0
0
0
0
0
a Reaction conditions: 0.1g Catalyst; 0.72g crotylalcohol, 1.35g of 30vol.% of H2O2, 50C. Titanium content of fresh catalyst used is in the range
0.940–2.206%. Caution, the amount of TBHP was not available in Ref. [336].
b Experimental error on ICP-MS analysis is ±0.5ppm.
24
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
served in all samples with the exception of TS-1, and
the order of leaching was Ti-Alb > Cp2TiCl2-grafted
MCM-41 > Ti-MCM-41 > Ti-Al-MCM-41  TS-1, when
hydrogen peroxide was used as an oxidant. If hydrogen
peroxide was replaced with tert-butyl hydroperoxide
(TBHP) as an oxidant, Ti-leaching was minimized and
the selective epoxide formation was observed with Ti-b
and Ti-MCM-41.
Nevertheless, the advent of Ti-MCM-41 certainly
widened the range of catalysts available for selective oxi-
dation reactions with hydrogen peroxide or organic
hydroperoxides as oxidants. When alkylhydroperoxides
are used, a better hydrophobic interaction with the sub-
strates, competing with water, is expected. Moreover, in
Ti-MCM-41, the alkylhydroperoxide can easily pene-
trate the mesopore system, avoiding diﬀusion limitations
or steric hindrance. For example, the oxidation of a-
terpineol using TBHP as an oxidant, Ti-MCM-41 gave
higher alkene conversion (62.2mol%) and epoxide selec-
tivity (30.2%) than Ti-b zeolite (32.7 and 12.8mol%,
respectively) [337].
Organically modiﬁed Ti-MCM-41 materials are even
more eﬃcient catalysts in epoxidation and oxidative cyc-
lization using TBHP [115–117]. More hydrophobic
materials exhibited high activity in catalytic epoxidation
of unsaturated alcohols followed by cyclization to cyclic
ethers. The oxidation activity increased extremely when
TBHP was used instead of H2O2 [115]. This can be
attributed to the preferred uptake of the reagents in
the hydrophobic pore system.
The most active and selective sites in Ti-based epoxi-
dation catalysts have isolated and 4-co-ordinated Ti(IV)
centers. Aqueous synthesis conditions, however, for
example direct synthesis of Ti-mesoporous materials, of-
ten promote the agglomeration of metal oxide species.
Therefore, grafting of the active component with a pre-
cise structure and composition is in many cases superior.
A site-isolated, mononuclear Ti catalyst has recently
been reported by Jarupatrakorn and Tilley [143]. Diﬀer-
ent (tert-butoxy)siloxy titanium compounds, such as
Ti[OSi(OtBu)3]4 (denoted TiSi4), (iPrO)Ti[OSi(OtBu)3]3
(TiSi3) and (tBuO)3TiOSi(OtBu)3 (TiSi), were grafted
on the surface of MCM-41 and SBA-15. The titanium
species exist mainly in isolated and tetrahedrally co-ordi-
nated environments, although TiSi4 shows low loading
due to the low reactivity towards silanol groups. SBA-
15 supported TiSi3 (0.25–1.77wt% Ti loading) exhibits
high activity in cyclohexene epoxidation; the yield of
cyclohexene oxide, after 2h, was 61% and 98% using
TBHP or cumene hydroperoxide (CHP) as oxidant,
respectively. Initial turnover frequencies decreased as
Ti content increased, indicating that the more isolated
sites are the most active ones. TiSi3/SBA-15 and TiSi3/
MCM-41 catalysts, with a similar Ti loading, exhibit a
higher activity than TiSi3/Aerosil, due to the high surface
area and a greater dispersion of the Ti active centers.
Grafting of Fe[OSi(OtBu)3]3 onto SBA-15, analogous
to the titanium species mentioned above, gave isolated
Fe centers [144]. The calcined Fe/SBA-15 catalysts ob-
tained, in which only small amounts of octahedral
Fe3+ were detected, showed good selectivity in oxidation
reactions of alkanes, alkenes and arenes with H2O2 as an
oxidant. When Fe/SBA-15 with 0.5wt% Fe loading was
used, benzene oxidation to phenol shows 7.5% of ben-
zene conversion (corresponds to 42% conversion of
H2O2) with close to 100% selectivity at 60C.
MCM-41 supported Mn catalysts, prepared by the
template ion exchange method, shows high activity for
the epoxidation of stilbene [194]. Gas-phase grafted
Mn species provide higher activity in stilbene oxidation
than impregnated Mn-MCM-41 when TBHP was used
as an oxidant [200]. In contrast, Mn-impregnated
MCM-41 showed higher activity than gas-phase grafted
Mn-MCM-41 in diphenylmethane oxidation using air as
an oxidant. The diﬀerences are attributed to the nature
of the Mn centers: Isolated and electrophilic Mn species
which are generated via gas-phase deposition are active
for the oxygen transfer reaction in the stilbene oxida-
tion, whereas bulky Mn oxides prepared via the impreg-
nation method which has nucleophilic lattice oxygen is
responsible for the hydrogen abstraction in diphenyl-
methane, the authors concluded [200].
Nb- or NbCo-substituted mesoporous MCM-41 are
active in liquid phase oxidation of aromatic hydrocar-
bons such as styrene, benzene or toluene to benzalde-
hyde, phenol or benzalcohol, respectively, with H2O2
[338]. Liquid phase oxidation of cyclohexane with aque-
ous H2O2 or TBHP can be catalyzed by Fe [339], Cr
[340], Co [341] and Mo [342] containing MCM-41. In
the
oxidation
of
cyclohexane
with
Mo-MCM-41
(Mo:0.05wt%), the selectivity to cyclohexanol and
cyclohexanone were 14.38 and 85.62mol%, respectively
[342]. The values are comparable to those for Ti-
MCM-41 (0.06wt%). The activity was slightly lower if
post-impregnated Mo-MCM-41 catalysts were used.
High catechol selectivity was observed in phenol oxida-
tion with H2O2 over Cu-nitrate impregnated MCM-41,
while Cu-acetate impregnated MCM-41 was selective
to hydroquinone and benzoquinone [343].
Co-MCM-41 and Ni-MCM-41 are active for benzene
or styrene oxidation in liquid phase to give phenol or
benzaldehyde, respectively, with H2O2 as an oxidant
[344,345].
Conversion,
selectivity
and
eﬃciency
of
H2O2 are increased with increase of Co loading. Liquid
phase hydroxylation of benzene to phenol by H2O2 was
also studied for the case of MCM-41 supported VOx
catalysts, although the highest activity was obtained
over the amorphous SiO2 supported catalyst, i.e. the or-
dered mesoporous material did not have an advantage
over amorphous silica [346]. The liquid phase oxidation
of benzene to phenol can also be carried out with molec-
ular oxygen. Cu-MCM-41 catalysts, synthesized by
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
25
impregnation and by ion exchange and then reduced
with ascorbic acid, were more active than Cu supported
on SiO2, TiO2, MgO, Na-ZSM-5, or K-L zeolite cata-
lysts [347].
Sn(IV) containing MCM-41 has a good activity in the
catalytic Bayer–Villiger oxidation which is normally car-
ried out stoichiometrically with correspondingly high
production of waste. In the oxidation of adamantanone,
the conversion and selectivity to the corresponding lac-
tone was 71% and 98%, respectively, when H2O2 was
used as an oxidant [146,348]. However, the catalytic
activity of Sn-b zeolite is even superior. No signiﬁcant
diﬀerence for catalytic activity was observed between
the directly prepared and post-synthesis grafted Sn-
MCM-41. Catalytic activity could be regenerated by cal-
cination of the spent catalyst.
One of the big disadvantages of the hydroperoxide
process for epoxidation reactions is the production of
equimolar amounts of the co-product, tert-butanol or
styrene, depending on which variant of hydroperoxide
is used in the process. Direct oleﬁn epoxidation in the
vapor phase using both atoms of oxygen or in situ for-
mation of (hydro)peroxy species from H2/O2 would be
of tremendous industrial signiﬁcance. Nitrate impregna-
tion of Ti-MCM-41 improves the peroxide selectivity in
the gas phase oxidation of propylene [349]. Homogene-
ously dispersed gold particles on Ti-MCM-41 and Ti-
MCM-48 catalyze the vapor-phase epoxidation of pro-
pene using H2/O2-mixtures [350–353]. Initial conversion
and propene oxide selectivity at 150C were 5.1% and
88% for Au/Ti-MCM-41 and 5.6% and 92% for Au–
Ti/MCM-48, respectively, when a feed gas containing
10vol% each C3H6, H2 and O2 diluted with Ar at a space
velocity of 4000h1cm3/g-catalyst was used [352].
From the theoretical prediction that the gold surface is
capable of generating H2O2 [354], the authors have pro-
posed a reaction mechanism as shown in Scheme 5 [352].
Hydrogen peroxide formed on the surface of gold (ii)
would form hydroperoxo-like species on isolated tetra-
hedral titanium sites on Ti-MCM catalysts (iii). The
resultant hydroperoxo-like species react with propene
(iv), which have previously been adsorbed on the Ti-
MCM (i), giving propylene oxide by the same mecha-
nism as reported for the liquid-phase epoxidation of
propene with H2O2. Silylation of mesoporous titanosili-
cate helps to improve propene oxide selectivity and H2
eﬃciency due to an increase in the hydrophobicity
[350,352]. Very recently, this group reported an en-
hanced activity in this reaction by use of 3D mesoporous
titanosilicate supported gold catalyst [355]. Addition of
1wt% of Ba(NO3)2 as a promoter to Au/titanosilicate
catalyst (Au, 0.3–0.4wt%; Ti, 3mol%) improves an ini-
tial C3H6 conversion to 9.8% keeping a high PO selectiv-
ity (90.3%) under the same feed-gas condition at 160C.
While the conversion decreases with time on stream, the
activity of the catalyst in terms of space-time yield is in
the range of 130–150gl1h1. This enhanced activity by
addition of Ba(NO3)2 is probably due to promoting the
formation of hydroperoxide-like species from H2 and
O2, as well as to lowering the acidity of the catalyst,
the authors supposed. In addition, the larger pore size
and 3D mesoporosity of the support, which allows easy
diﬀusion of reactants and products, may also be respon-
sible for this improvement.
Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to ob-
tain
alkenes
over
V-MCM-41
has
been
reported
[195,356,357]. The template ion exchange method was
found to be eﬀective for this purpose, and the resulting
catalysts show good selectivity for oxidation of ethane
and propane [195]. The turn-over-frequency (TOF) for
propane ODH decreased with increase of the V-loading,
which is consistent with the appearance of the V2O5
crystalline phase in the materials [356]. The highest
selectivity in isobutane ODH was observed for a V-
MCM-41 catalyst with a Si/V ratio of 30 as compared
to MCM-41 and amorphous V-silica (He:i-C4H10:O2 =
82:12:6, W/F = 3.54gh/mol i-C4) [357]. The isobutene
selectivities were 59 and 52% at 5 and 10% of isobutane
conversion, respectively. The cis-/trans-ratio of 2-butene
was close to unity, indicating that no secondary isomeri-
zation of butenes was taking place.
Methane partial oxidation by air over V-MCM-41
and -48 catalysts containing isolated V@O species (V
content, 2.8wt%) has been reported by Berndt et al.
[358]. The space–time-yield of formaldehyde and metha-
nol
over
the
V-MCM-41
catalyst
were
75
and
1:25molkg1
cat h1, respectively, at a GHSV of 280,000l
kg1h1 and 622C (CH4/air = 1.13). Recently, it was
revealed that larger pore mesoporous catalyst, V-
impregnated SBA-15, was even preferable in this reac-
tion [359]. The V-SBA-15 with 3wt% V-loading exhibits
CH4 conversion and HCHO selectivity of 1.6% and
94%, respectively, at a GHSV of 144,000lkg1h1, cor-
responding
to
a
formaldehyde
space–time-yield
of
93molkg1
cat h1 (CH4/O2 = 23.1 at 625C). Molybdosili-
cates are also active in this reaction. Directly prepared
Mo-SBA-1 (8.8wt%) showed a slightly higher HCHO
selectivity and yield than Mo post-impregnated SBA-1
(9.0wt%) [360].
Scheme 5.
26
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
Methanol oxidation with Nb-doped MCM-41 was
investigated by Gao et al. [361]. Nb-MCM-41 (3.5wt%
Nb doped) and Nb2O5 supported on amorphous silica
(1wt%) have similar activity. The FT-Raman and UV–
vis studies of these dehydrated samples revealed the
presence of highly dispersed isolated NbO4 units. The
TOF, based on the total number of Nb atoms in the cat-
alysts, were 20 and 29 (103 s1), respectively. Compar-
ison of activity based on a unit mass catalyst, on the
other hand, were 27 and 8 mmol/gh, respectively, indi-
cating a higher overall activity of Nb-MCM-41 catalyst.
The selectivity to formaldehyde, methylformate, and
dimethyoxy methane were 52%, 44% and 4% in Nb-
MCM-41, respectively, while they were 27%, 67% and
6% in the Nb2O5/SiO2 catalyst.
5.2. Catalysis by supported nanoparticles
The pore system of ordered mesoporous materials
with the narrow pore size distribution and in many cases
rather long pores, is ideally suited to stabilize nanopar-
ticles in high dispersion. Accordingly, many diﬀerent
catalytically active materials have been supported on
these materials, not only small noble metal particles,
but also bulk base metal oxides and sulﬁdes. Depending
on the strength of the interaction between the support
and the supported phase, thin coatings on the walls or
particles in the pore system may form.
The inﬂuence of the acidity of support materials on
basic oxides, such as Ga2O3 and In2O3, was investigated
by use of MCM-41, silica–alumina, c-Al2O3, ZrO2, and
zeolites as a support [234]. In the benzylation of benzene
with benzyl chloride, the activity of Ga2O3 and In2O3
supported on nonacidic supports (Si-MCM-41, silica–
alumina with low surface area, silicalite–I, and silica
gel) is comparable or even much higher than over cata-
lysts supported on acidic supports (Al-MCM-41, silica–
alumina with high surface area, H-ZSM-5, and c-alu-
mina). However, the study comes to the conclusion that
the acidity of the support material does not play a signif-
icant role in this reaction. The In2O3 supported on Si-
MCM-41 shows the best performance; time required
for 50% of conversion of benzyl chloride was 2.4min
with 20wt% loading, whereas over the 20wt% Ga2O3/
Si-MCM-41 or bulk In2O3 the times were 2.5 and
12.8min, respectively. The authors also reported that
these systems catalyze Friedel–Crafts type benzene ben-
zylation or acylation reactions in the presence of mois-
ture. The presence of moisture prolongs the induction
period. After the induction period, however, the reac-
tion proceeds at almost the same or even higher activity
than in the absence of moisture.
Hydrotreatment of petroleum fractions which in-
volves hydrodesulfurization (HDS), hydrodenitrogena-
tion (HDN), or mild cracking of heavy feeds and
aromatics in diﬀerent distillates is an example of a proc-
ess for which a need for converting large molecules is
obvious. MCM-41 supported MoS2 shows a higher rate
constant for HDS of dibenzothiophene than MoS2 sup-
ported on amorphous SiO2 [253]. SBA-15 supported Ni–
WS2 shows 1.4 and 7.3 times higher catalytic activities
than a commercial Co–Mo/Al2O3 catalyst for HDS of
dibenzothiophene and hydrogenation of toluene, respec-
tively [119].
Isopolyoxide of (NH4)6Mo7O24 and Co(NO3)2Æ6H2O
were co-impregnated in Al-MCM-41 and following cal-
cination yielded a good HDS catalyst [250,251]. At 350–
375C and a H2 pressure of 6.9MPa, the sulﬁded Co–
Mo/Al-MCM-41 catalysts show higher hydrogenation
and hydrocracking activities than conventional Co–
Mo/c-Al2O3 catalysts in HDS of a model fuel containing
3.5wt% of sulfur as dibenzothiophene in n-tridecane
[251]. In the desulfurization of a petroleum residue, how-
ever, a commercial Co–Mo/Al2O3 (criterion 344TL) had
better performance than the MCM-41-based catalyst
[250].
Iron oxide supported on MCM-41 has high catalytic
activity in the oxidation of SO2 in highly concentrated
gas streams, as they are present at smelters using oxygen
instead of air for roasting of oxidic ores (Fig. 13) [362].
Although the activity at low temperature is lower than
that of commercial vanadium-based catalysts (which
can, however, not be used under commercial conditions
in these highly concentrated gases), it is substantially
higher than that of iron oxide supported on a commer-
cial high surface area amorphous silica support. The cat-
alytic activity was rather independent of the preparation
procedure (incipient wetness, solid–solid impregnation
Fig. 13. SO2 conversion vs. T: (m) incipient wetness impregnation; ()
solid-state impregnation: (j) in situ synthesis; (d) iron on a
commercial silica support (BASF V1605); (·) a vanadium-based
commercial catalyst (BASF V4-111). The connecting lines are just a
guide for the eyes. The dotted line shows the equilibrium conversion
[362].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
27
or direct synthesis). In addition, these catalysts show
remarkable thermal and long term stability up to 750C.
Mesoporous silica supported Ni, Pt, Rh, Ir, Ru or
metal alloys have been widely studied as hydrogenation
or hydrocracking catalysts for bulky substrates and were
shown to be very eﬃcient catalysts. For example, hydro-
genation of aromatics in diesel [363], hydrocracking
of
1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene
[364]
or
naphthalene
[221,365] have been reported.
Hydrogenation of unsaturated carbonyl compounds
to saturated ketones or aldehydes is easily achieved over
most platinum group metal catalysts under mild condi-
tions and in diﬀerent solvents. However, the selective
hydrogenation of unsaturated carbonyl compounds to
unsaturated alcohols still remains an important chal-
lenge in heterogeneous catalysis. Because of the wide
pore opening of mesoporous silica, bulky substances,
like prostaglandin intermediate ketones, can successfully
be reduced to the corresponding secondary allylic alcoh-
ols over mesoporous silica supported Ru or Pt–Sn
[366,367].
In the hydrogenation of benzoic acid to cyclohexane
carboxylic acid over MCM-41 supported Ru-containing
bimetallic catalysts (Ru5Pt, Ru10Pt2, Ru6Sn, Pd6Ru6 or
Cu4Ru12), the Ru–Pt catalysts are the most active cata-
lysts (Fig. 5) [221]. The Ru10Pt2 showed a higher activity
and selectivity to cyclohexane carboxylic acid than
Ru5Pt, although both catalysts have the same Ru/Pt ra-
tio. Hydrogenation of 1,5,9-cyclododecatriene took
place at temperatures as low as 80C over bimetallic
Ru6Sn catalysts ([Ru6C(CO)16SnCl3] as a precursor)
on MCM-41 without any solvent [220]. Selectivity to
cyclododecene at this temperature is 68.2%, and in-
creases to 91.3% at 100C. The same catalyst shows
100% selectivity to cyclooctene in 1,5-cyclooctadiene
hydrogenation at 40C. From the comparison of several
MCM-41
supported
bimetallic
catalysts,
such
as
Cu4Ru12, Ag4Ru12, Pd6Ru6, the authors concluded that
Ru6Sn is the best catalyst for selective hydrogenation of
one or two double bonds.
The application of MCM-41 supported palladium
catalysts in the hydrodehalogenation of chlorinated
hydrocarbons in polluted groundwater under ambient
conditions has also been explored. The catalysts based
on MCM-41 have superior activity compared to dealu-
minated zeolite Y-based systems. However, deactivation
is much more rapid in the case of MCM-41, since hydro-
philic catalyst poisons, such as sulfur containing com-
pounds, penetrate the pore system easier than in case
of the hydrophobic Y-zeolite [368].
Palladium catalyzed carbon–carbon coupling (Heck
reaction) is an important reaction in modern organic
synthesis. Palladium grafted mesoporous silica, pre-
pared by vapor phase grafting and subsequent reduction
with hydrogen, shows remarkable activity in the Heck-
type carbon–carbon bond formation [369,370]. For
example, 99% yield at 100% conversion was obtained
after only 1h in the reaction of 4-bromoacetophenone
and n-butylacrylate in air. The large pore opening of
the support material and the highly dispersed active site
(30%) provide an easy access for large substrate mole-
cules, and consequently lead to an excellent activity
for this reaction, the authors concluded.
The extremely high surface area of mesoporous silica
(1000m2/g) is especially attractive in reactions, in which
the activity is insensitive to the structure of active sites,
such as CO hydrogenation on Co/SiO2 [371,372]. Highly
dispersed Co metal supported on MCM-41 shows sig-
niﬁcant increase of CO hydrogenation activity in com-
parison to an amorphous SiO2 supported catalyst.
Khodakov et al. [373] reported pore size eﬀects on
Fischer–Tropsch reaction rates and selectivity for meso-
porous silica supported Co catalysts. The fraction of
C5+ species increased with the pore diameter, and reac-
tion rate was improved when SBA-15 with a pore diam-
eter lager than 3nm was used. CoRu/MCM-41 prepared
by impregnation has also been used in this reaction
[374–376]. Highly dispersed Ni nanoparticles in meso-
porous silica present good benzene hydrogenation activ-
ity from 150 to 200C [377]. Incorporation of Al or Nb
in the mesoporous framework increases the interaction
between the Ni particles and support oxides for the Ni
stabilization.
Gold nanoparticles, deposited on MCM-41 by chem-
ical vapor deposition of dimethyl gold acetylacetonate,
exhibit high catalytic activities for the oxidation of CO
and of H2, below and above 0C, respectively [378]. Ac-
tive gold catalysts could also be prepared by a solution-
based synthesis, after the normally negative surface of
SBA-15 had ﬁrst been charge inverted by grafting of
alkylammonium groups [211], subsequent impregnation
with HAuCl4 and reduction with NaBH4 [213]. Metal
clusters like Pd561 and Au55, stabilized by hydrophobic
ligands, have been used as precursors in the in situ syn-
thesis of MCM-41 [379]. Both surfactant and ligands
can be removed by calcination resulting in highly dis-
persed metal clusters on the inner and outer surface.
FSM-16 supported Pt particles prepared from super-
critical CO2 as solvent also showed high CO oxidation
activity [209]. In the water–gas-shift reaction, Pt-nano-
wires encapsulated in FSM-16 is more active than the
corresponding Pt-nanoparticle catalyst [380,381].
Pt and Pd supported mesoporous carbon (CMK-1) is
active in the liquid phase hydrogenation of nitroben-
zene, 2-ethylanthraquinone or 4-isobutylacetophenone
to p-aminophenol, 2-ethylanthrahydroquinone or 1-(4-
isobutylphenyl)ethanol, respectively [382]. Compared
with commercial carbon supported precious metal cata-
lysts, mesoporous catalysts gave better conversion and
selectivity at the same loading level (5wt%). Generally,
2wt% metal loaded CMK-1 exhibited similar catalytic
performance as 5wt% of loading in commercial carbon.
28
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
Mesoporous carbon (CMK-5) supported Pt has very
interesting catalytic properties for O2 reduction in a fuel
cell setup [290]. Details of this new electrocatalyst will be
described later.
The surface area of Pd/SBA-15 does not change very
much before (730m2/g) and after (690m2/g) methane
total
oxidation
under
reaction
conditions
(520C,
GHSV ¼ 30m3
CH4 h1 kg1
Pd) [383]. A kinetic study of
methane oxidation over mesoporous silica (Dp = 3.4nm)
supported LaCoO3 was presented by Nguyen et al.
[239]. Independent of the loading with LaCoO3 up to
38.5wt%, mass transfer limitations appeared at reaction
temperatures above 380C. Even though this negatively
inﬂuenced the apparent rate, the supported catalysts still
show higher conversion and a lowering of the onset tem-
perature compared to bulk LaCoO3. The supported cat-
alyst maintains its high activity also in the presence of
SO2, whereas the non-supported catalysts were rapidly
deactivated. Highly dispersed MnOx, which was pre-
pared by vapor phase grafting of Mn2(CO)10 on
MCM-41 and subsequent calcination, had superior cat-
alytic activity in the total oxidation of propene [384].
The onset temperature was ca. 100C lower than for
the catalyst obtained on amorphous silica as a support.
The catalytic activity of Fe3+ ion exchanged mesopor-
ous silica for selective catalytic reduction of NO with
NH3 has been reported [174]. The Fe/Al-MCM-41 and
Fe/Al-HMS showed a wider temperature window com-
pared with V2O5-based catalysts such as V2O5/TiO2 and
V2O5–WO3/TiO2. Ruthenium-based catalysts were active
in the decomposition of N2O. Among RuCl3, Ru(OH)3
and Ru3(CO12), the Ru(OH)3 impregnated catalysts pre-
sent highly dispersed Ru species and thus the hydroxide is
the most suitable precursor [385]. Complete decomposi-
tion of N2O took place at 400C when Ru/MCM-41
(5.0wt%) was used. Addition of small traces of CO leads
to a decrease in the decomposition temperature.
Polyoxometalate units are borderline cases between
supported oxides and supported molecular species.
However, in many cases it is not fully clear in which
state the polyoxometalates are present after impregna-
tion and during reaction; such systems shall be discussed
in the last paragraph of this section. Mesoporous
silica
loaded
with
ammonium
heptamolybdate,
(NH4)6Mo7O24, has a remarkable activity in oleﬁn
methathesis [249]. Conversion of oct-1-ene and the yield
of tetradec-7-ene in the early stages of the reaction
increase with the pore diameter of the HMS used.
The conversion reached the highest value within 5h in
large pore catalysts (d100 = 3.4 and 3.5nm) and the yield
and selectivity to tetradec-7-ene decreased after this
stage, owing to the deactivation of catalysts. In contrast,
on smaller pore catalyst (d100 = 3.0nm), the yield of
tetradec-7-ene steadily increased up to 44% (at 16h)
with
high
selectivity
(77%).
HMS
supported
CuH3[PMo10V2O40] is active in propylene oxidation to
acetone [386]. The low conversion of CuH3[PMo10-
V2O40] (1.3%) without silica support increased to 9.2%
and 17.2% by supporting it on amorphous silica
(164m2/g) and HMS (1100m2/g), respectively. This re-
sult indicates that polyoxometalates can be highly dis-
persed on the HMS surface and have many exposed
surface sites. Finally, Maldotti et al. [248] also reported
photocatalytic oxidation activity for the reaction of
cyclohexene or cyclododecane to the corresponding
alcohol
and
ketones
for
MCM-41
supported
(n-
Bu4N)4W10O32.
5.3. Grafted active sites with deﬁned and well-
characterized structure
Ordered mesoporous materials are well suited for the
immobilization
of
molecular
catalysts
including
enzymes, basic molecules, or chiral/non-chiral organo-
metallic complexes, since they provide a very homogene-
ous environment and thus allow the creation of rather
similar sites in the material. There are many strategies
for immobilization of active components on mesopor-
ous materials, as discussed above. One of the most
reliable ways is grafting of the active species with a
precise structure, such as present in deﬁned metal com-
plexes and enzymes. These species can be immobilized
via ion exchange, condensation, and co-valent attach-
ment of organic ligands.
One of the most widely used methods for immobiliz-
ing enzymes is encapsulation inside sol–gel silica. How-
ever, due to small pore sizes and partially closed pore
structures, most studies on such immobilized enzymes
reported much lower speciﬁc activity than for the free
enzymes in solution. Mesoporous silicas with wide, fully
accessible mesopores, therefore, have attractive features
for enzyme immobilization.
Immobilization of trypsin on MCM-41, MCM-48
and SBA-15 was reported by Yiu et al. [262]. However,
there was signiﬁcant leaching (35–72%) observed from
the support in buﬀer solution (pH = 8) [262]. Surface
functionalized silica can increase the interaction between
the enzyme molecule and the support surface, and pre-
vent leaching of the enzyme. Thus, trypsin adsorbed
on thiol-fuctionalized SBA-15 shows negligible leaching,
and achieves 84% of the catalytic activity in hydrolysis
of N-a-benzoyl-DL
DL-arginine-4-nitroanilide as compared
to free trypsin [266]. Lei et al. [263] reported the immo-
bilization of organophosphorus hydrolase (OPH) on
surface
functionalized
SBA-15.
Positively
charged
OPH is more likely to be entrapped in a material func-
tionalized with carboxylic groups than in those modiﬁed
with amine groups. High speciﬁc activity was observed
for hydrolysis of paraoxon (4182 units/mg) which was
twice as high as that of the free enzyme (1928 units/mg).
Due to the pore size of mesoporous materials, graft-
ing of complete metal complexes and organometallic
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
29
moieties is possible, enabling the formation of selective
catalysts with a large concentration of accessible and
well-spaced active sites. Species known to be active in
homogeneous catalysis can, if used in this manner, uti-
lize the advantages of heterogeneous catalysis. There-
fore, most of the studies using such immobilized
species were carried out under mild conditions in order
not to aﬀect the grafted complex.
The simplest procedure for immobilization of molec-
ular species is impregnation or ion exchange. However,
this results in a rather weak interaction between support
and metal complex, which means that the active com-
plex is easily leached. Although in fortunate cases immo-
bilization is possible by simple impregnation [387],
complexes are mostly co-valently anchored to the meso-
porous support via silylation of silanol groups [22]. In
this way, leaching of the complexes is less of a problem,
although it still may occur, if either the bond to silica is
cleaved under reaction conditions or one of the other
bonds in the linker.
MCM-41
ion-exchanged
with
[Fe(phenanthro-
line)3]Cl2 [175] or [Fe(8-quinolinol)3]Cl2 [176] showed
activity in phenol hydroxylation with H2O2. Ion-ex-
change of Al-MCM-41 with [Mn(2,20-bipyridine)2]NO3
led to a catalyst exhibiting higher activity for the oxida-
tion of styrene than the corresponding homogeneous
catalyst [177]. However, leaching of active components
(several% in each run) has been reported for these
catalysts.
Epoxidation catalysts can also be designed to be
enantioselective:
Al-MCM-41,
ion
exchanged
with
Mn(OAc)2 and subsequently modiﬁed with a chiral
salen, (R,R)-()-N,N0-bis(3,5-di-tert-butylsalicylidene)-
1,2-cyclohexadiamine, is an eﬀective enantioselective
solid epoxidation catalyst for cis-stilbene [388]. This
modiﬁcation leads to an enhancement in cis-epoxide
selectivity from 29% in the homogeneous reaction to
58%, if iodosylbenzene is used as oxidant. The turnover
rates, based on the amount of Mn-salen, for the solid
catalyst were found to be higher than those for the
homogeneously catalyzed reaction. Although leaching
of some salene ligand was observed, no Mn3+ leaching
was observed during the reaction. The conversion of sty-
rene and stilbene over mesoporous silica immobilized
Mn(III) salene complex was improved by replacing the
regular MCM-41-type silica with disordered mesopor-
ous silica [118].
By tuning the ligand environment, the catalytic activ-
ity can be modiﬁed for the immobilized systems in a
manner analogous to homogeneous catalysis. With the
purely nitrogen donor ligand 1,11-bis(2-pyridyl)-2,6,10-
triazaundec-1,10-diene Mn(III), [NNNN] liganded, the
complex shows signiﬁcantly higher catalytic activity
than the above mentioned system of the Schiﬀbase
analogue
complex
with
3-[N,N0-bis-3-(salicyliden-
amino)propyl]amine,
[NNOO]
liganded
[389].
The
cyclohexane conversion was 99.8% with the [NNNN]
ligand, while only 60.1% were observed for the [NNOO]
ligand. The higher activity of the nitrogen donor ligand
can be explained by the prevention of l-phenoxyl inter-
molecular interaction (Scheme 6).
Epoxidation is also possible over molybdenum-based
catalysts. The oxodiperoxo molybdenum complex, [(L–
L)MoO(O2)2]
(L–L = (3-triethoxysilylpropyl)[3-(2-pyr-
idyl)-1-pyrazolylacetamide]) grafted on MCM-41 or
Al-MCM-41 shows cyclooctene epoxidation activity al-
ready at 60C [113]. When TBHP was used as an oxi-
dant, the cyclooctene epoxide selectivity was close to
100%. Surface silylation of the MCM-41 or Al-MCM-
41 prevents leaching of the molybdenum complex and
results in superior catalyst re-cyclability.
Ruthenium perﬂuorophthalocyanine complexes in
the mesopore channels of MCM-41 show activity for
cyclohexane oxidation with TBHP in the liquid phase
under ambient conditions [390]. The catalyst which
had been prepared via ligand exchange of a ruthenium
carbonyl
complex
by
ship-in-the-bottle
synthesis
(0.6wt% loading) showed a higher activity than the cat-
alyst which had been grafted by linking to aminopropyl
functionalized MCM-41 (5wt% loading). The low activ-
ity of the grafted material is due to the relatively high
loading of complex which would lead to a pore block-
age, or co-ordination change of ruthenium by a Ru-N
bond, the authors claimed. A perruthenate immobilized
within amine- or tetraalkylammonium modiﬁed MCM-
41 has been used in alcohol oxidation with molecular
oxygen [268]. In oxidation of various allylic alcohols,
for example 1-phenylethanol, the corresponding alde-
hydes were obtained quantitatively within several hours
without over-oxidation. The reaction also took place
when silica aerogel was used as a support, however, sig-
niﬁcantly longer reaction time was needed.
Homogeneous reduction catalysts have also been
immobilized on the surface of ordered mesoporous sili-
cas. Dichlorobis(benzylcyano)palladium(II) grafted on
MCM-41, which had been pretreated with 3-trimethoxy-
silylpropyl amine, was used in the reduction of aromatic
nitro compounds to the corresponding amino com-
pounds, and for the hydrodehalogenation of 1-bromo-
naphthalene by molecular hydrogen [391,392].
Scheme 6.
30
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
Silylamides are used as reactive precursors in order to
design Lewis acidic complexes based on aluminum or
lanthanides (Fig. 10) [273,275]. These immobilized Le-
wis acid catalysts exhibit markedly increased catalytic
activity in the hetero Diels–Alder cyclization of trans-
1-methoxy-3-trimethylsiloxy-1,3-butadiene and benzal-
dehyde compared to their molecular counterparts in
solution [273]. One could expect an extension of the
applicability of these kinds of catalysts towards asym-
metric reactions by use of chiral ligands instead of fod
(1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptaﬂuoro-7,7-dimethyl-4,6-octanedionate).
For the hydrogenation of oleﬁns, the hydrido chloro-
carbonyl tris-(triphenylphosphine) ruthenium complex
([RuHCl(CO)(PPh3)3]) has been immobilized on the sur-
face of aminopropyl functionalized mesoporous silica
via ligand exchange [393]. For all the substrates tested,
including styrene, trans- and cis-stilbene, a-methyl sty-
rene and limonene, conversion and turnover frequency
were considerably higher with MCM-41 and SBA-15
catalysts than with the unsupported complex. SBA-15
was superior to MCM-41 as support which was attrib-
uted to the easier access of substrate molecules to the ac-
tive sites in SBA-15.
An anchored rhodium phosphine complex can simply
be prepared via ligand exchange by treating MCM-41
with
(EtO)3Si–(CH2)3–PPh
and
Rh(PPh3)3Cl
[394].
The resultant solid catalysts are active in cyclohexene
hydrogenation for more than 15 cycles which shows
the eﬀective immobilization achieved via this simple
procedure. In order to use bidentate phosphine ligand
and to prevent the dimerization of the rhodium centers
through chloro bridges, a cationic [Rh(cyclooctadi-
ene)(THF)2]+BF
4 was used to introduce an active site
in previously grafted diphenyl-functionalized mesopor-
ous silica [395]. The turnover frequency in isosafrol
hydrogenation
exceeds
the
result
of
homogeneous
catalysts.
A platinum–phosphine complex, [PtCl2{PhP(CH2)2-
Si(OEt)3}3], grafted on MCM-41 was used as a hydro-
formylation catalyst in supercritical CO2 with SnCl2Æ
2H2O as a co-catalyst [396]. In the hydroformylation
of 1-hexene, the MCM-41 catalyst gave higher yield
(20,500mol of aldehydes per mole of Pt) than the same
catalyst grafted on amorphous SiO2. The former cata-
lyst showed also higher regioselectivity to the linear
heptanal than the latter. The narrow pore size, surface
interactions with the catalyst, or better retention of
the Sn co-catalyst may lead to the diﬀerence in regio-
selectivity.
Dirhodium(II) tetrakis (methyl-2-oxopyrrolidine-5-
carboxylates) and dirhodium(II) tetrakis (4-benzyl-2-
oxazolidinones),
attached
to
the
MCM-41
surface
through ligand exchange with carboxylic acid function-
alized tethers catalyze cyclopropanation of styrene with
diazoacetates (tert-butyl diazoacetate or ethyl diazoace-
tate) [269]. The relatively small ligand of the complex
does not signiﬁcantly restrict the substrates, the trans/
cis ratio in the products are thus not very high in the
homogeneously catalyzed reaction. In the heterogeneous
raction, more trans-compound is formed due to the ster-
ic limitations caused by the support surface. This eﬀect is
more pronounced if the bulky tert-butyl diazoacetate is
used instead of ethyl diazoacetate. The authors also at-
tempted a Si–H insertion reaction of methyl phenyldia-
zoacetate with dimethylphenylsilane. However, due to
the small pore of MCM-41 (1.9nm), only traces of the
product were obtained.
The large pore diameter of mesoporous silica permits
the direct grafting of complete chiral metal complexes
and organometallic moieties onto the inner walls of
these high surface area solids by a variety of diﬀerent
routes, including tethering to a surface functionalized
with organic groups, such as alkylhalides, amines, car-
boxyls and phosphines [276,397]. MCM-41 and other
members of the family of ordered mesoporous silicas
have proven to be good supports for metals or anchored
organometallic complexes with a good activity and
selectivity in various reactions.
Tethered palladium phosphine (Fig. 9, pathway (B))
on the surface of MCM-41 can catalyze a one-step
asymmetric hydrogenation of ethyl nicotinate to ethyl
nipecotinate with a 17%ee and conversions in excess of
50% [271]. The result is superior to the usual two-step
hydrogenation using Pd/C and cinchonidine modiﬁed
Pd/C catalysts (19%ee with 12% conversion).
Non-co-valently immobilized rhodium diphosphine
catalysts also exhibit excellent hydrogenation activities.
The [(1,5-COD)Rh(Duphos)]+Cl (Scheme 7, COD =
cyclooctadiene, Duphos = (1,2-bis((2S,5S)-2,5-dimethyl-
phospholano)benzene)) immobilized on Al-MCM-41
showed high activity in the hydrogenation of dimethylit-
aconate with 99% selectivity and 92% enantioselectivity
in dichloromethane as a solvent [256]. The catalyst was
reusable at least four times without any loss in activity;
after 8–10 consecutive runs, however, a decrease in cat-
alytic performance was observed. In the hydrogenation
of an a-enamide ester dissolved in dichloromethane,
[(R,R)-Me-(DuPHOS)Rh(COD)]OTf
(Me-DuPHOS =
1,2-bis(2,5-dimethylphosphacyclopentyl)ethane) on
MCM-41 allows comparable conversion and higher
enantioselectivity than homogeneous catalysts [257].
Scheme 7.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
31
However,
since
the
interaction
is
normally
rela-
tively weak in these cases, leaching easily occurs if a
polar or protic solvent such as methanol or ethanol is
used.
Immobilized
Ru-BINAP
(BINAP = (R)-(+)-2,
20-bis(diphenylphosphino)-1,10-binaphtyl)
and
Rh-
BPPM
(BPPM=(2S,4S)-N-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)-4-
(diphenylphosphino)-2-[(diphenylphosphino)methyl]
pyrrolidine), attached to the support by direct impreg-
nation, work as hydrogenation catalysts in aqueous
media [258]. In the hydrogenation of a-acetamidocinna-
mate, Ru-BINAP and Rh-BPPM show 81% and 100%
conversion, respectively, and 48% and 49%ee. Since
there are no benchmark experiments, it is diﬃcult to
judge the activity of these complexes. However, the cat-
alytic activity was signiﬁcantly reduced by re-cycling;
nearly 90% of Rh was lost in the recovered catalyst.
Tethering these complexes with amino- or carboxyl
groups in MCM-41 did not improve the catalytic per-
formance [398].
Palladium–phosphine complexes catalyze regioselec-
tive
allylic
amination
reactions
[270]. Immobilized
Pd(II)-1,10-bis(diphenyl phosphino) ferrocene complex
tethered to MCM-41 promotes a dramatic change of
the regioselectivity in the reaction between cinnamyl
acetate and benzylamine. Due to the pore conﬁnement
eﬀect, the branched product with 51% regioselectivity
and close to 100% enantioselectivity was obtained, while
the homogeneous catalyst directs the conversion to-
wards the straight chain product (Scheme 2). The per-
formance of the MCM-41 supported catalyst is also
drastically improved compared to the amorphous silica
supported catalysts (2% regioselectivity with 43%ee).
Besides the phosphine complexes, asymmetric hydro-
genations catalyzed by diamine complexes have become
more interesting because phosphines are generally air
sensitive, toxic and favor deactivation of the catalytic
complex. Recently, heterogenized diamino Ru [399],
Rh and Pd [400] complexes were reported.
Immobilized dichloro-(S)-6,60-dimethyl-2,20-diamin-
obiphenyl–ruthenium
complex
((S)-MAB-MCM-Ru)
has been prepared via grafting of (S)-6-(3-aminopropy-
lentrimethyoxysilanemethylen)-60-methyl-2,20-diacetam-
idobiphenyl onto MCM-41. The cleavage of the amide
groups to give an amine ligand allowed to introduce
an
active
component,
dichloro-cycloocta-1,5-dienyl–
ruthenium (Scheme 8) [399]. The supported catalyst
gave an excellent performance in hydrogenation of a-
acetamidocinnamic acid; the enantiomeric selectivity to
the (R)-isomer in the heterogenized and homogeneous
catalysts were 96.8 ± 1.2 and 69.8 ± 0.3%ee, respec-
tively. The catalysts are reusable without any loss of
product yield, only the enantioselectivity decreased
slightly from 97% to 94% after three runs. Improved
enantioselectivity was also observable in the hydrogena-
tion of itaconic acid. Increase of enantioselectivity is
caused by the increased rigidity of the anchored struc-
ture, the authors supposed, in which the anchored struc-
ture would hamper the rotation of the transition state
during insertion of the hydrogen atoms to the double
bonds of the acids and thus favor the (R)-isomer.
Jones et al. [400] reported the enhancement of the
enantioselectivity
of
rhodium(I)
and
palladium(II)
hydrogenation catalysts, compared with the correspond-
ing homogeneous systems or such complexes immobi-
lized on convex surfaces, such as spherical silica
particles as present in a silica gel. This improved per-
formance was attributed to the anchoring of the active
site on the concave inner surface of the channels in the
ordered mesoporous materials [400]. For example,
MCM-41 supported Rh(I) catalysts showed 93%ee for
hydrogenation of a-phenyl cinnamic acid, whereas only
81%ee and 79%ee were observed in the corresponding
homogeneous or Cabosil supported catalysts, respec-
tively. The access of the bulky substrate to the active me-
tal center is favored only when the reactant approaches
along the pore axis (Fig. 14). The immobilization on the
convex silica surface (Cabosil) or a homogeneous phase
Scheme 8.
32
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
reaction does not help such a beneﬁcial restriction for
these amine-bidentated complexes.
A chiral copper(II) bisoxazoline co-valently anchored
to
MCM-41
catalyzes
asymmetric
Diels–Alder
or
Friedel–Crafts reactions [401,402]. In the asymmetric
Diels–Alder reaction between cyclopentadiene and 3-
(2-propenoyl)-2-oxazolidimone, the heterogenized cata-
lyst has good enantioselectivity of 78%ee and an endo/
exo-selectivity (17:1) which was better than in the corre-
sponding homogeneous reaction [401]. Also in the
Friedel–Crafts hydroxyalkylation of 1,3-dimethoxyben-
zene with 3,3,3-triﬂuoropyruvate the conversion (77%)
and the enantioselectivity (82%) over the MCM-41
immobilized complex (Scheme 9) exceed the perform-
ance in homogeneous phase (44% and 72%, respectively)
[402]. The MCM-41 catalyst is reusable without loss of
enantioselectivity,
though
the
conversion
decreases
slightly. In this report, amorphous silica grafted cata-
lysts exhibited the highest ee (92%). The lower ee values
achieved using MCM-41 compared with amorphous sil-
ica reﬂect the negative inﬂuence of the residual free sila-
nol groups, observed with FT-IR in the MCM-41
catalyst, as the authors supposed. The heterogenized
copper bisoxazoline catalyst catalyzes the enantioselec-
tive cyclopropanation of styrene with ethyl diazoacetate
[403]. Here the immobilized catalyst exhibits almost the
same yield and enantioselectivity with only one-tenth of
the amount of Cu than in the homogeneous system. A
slight decrease of the yield was observed, however, in
a repeated run, while the enantioselectivity remained al-
most the same.
Carbon–carbon coupling reactions (Suzuki reaction)
have already been discussed in the section on supported
small
metal
particles
as
catalysts.
Such
reactions
have also been performed with immobilized homo-
geneous catalysts. A palladium–phosphine complex,
PdCl2[Ph2P(CH2)2S(CH2)3SO3Na]2,
immobilized
on
alkylsilylsulfonic acid silylated Al-MCM-41 gave a
(404)-methoxymethylbiphenyle from p-iodanisole and
p-tolueneborone acid [404]. A long induction period,
in which the reduction of Pd(II) to Pd(0) is taking place,
is observed in this reaction. Interestingly, the re-cycled
catalysts showed an enhanced activity which was com-
parable to the homogeneous system. A catalyst prepared
by stirring an alkylsilylsulfonic acid modiﬁed Al-MCM-
41 in CTAB solution, and following ligand exchange of
Pd–phosphine complex is applicable also in a two-phase
reaction between p-iodoanisole (in toluene) and phenyl-
boronic acid (in ethanol) [405].
A
Grubbs
type
Ru-alkylidene
complex,
(Ph3P)2Cl2Ru@CHPh, anchored on MCM-41, using a
Fig. 14. Postulated computer graphic models of MCM-41 supported
(S)-()-2-aminomethyl-1-ethyl pyrrolidine co-ordinated Rh-1,5-cyclo-
octadiene. (A) Substrates can access along to the pore in this
conformation. (B) The C–C bond rotation of the tether leads to a
restriction of access to the active site [400].
Scheme 9.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
33
previously grafted diphenylphosphinoethyltriethoxysi-
lane ((EtO)3Si(SH2)2PPh2) as a tether and subsequent
ligand exchange of phenylphosphine between complex
and that in tether, showed a good activity in ring-closing
metathesis of diallylamine [406]. The activity is compa-
rable with the homogeneous catalysts. However, the
authors claimed a mass transfer limitation when a bulky
substrate such as diethyldiallylmalonate was used. A
similar catalyst, but using cyclohexylphosphine instead
of phenylphosphine ((Cy3P)2Cl2Ru@CHPh), exhibits
activity for ring-opening metathesis polymerization of
norbornene, even in an aqueous environment.
Highly interesting are heterogenized single site oleﬁn
polymerization catalysts. Such systems were obtained
with supported Mo [407] or Cr [408,409] active sites or
metallocene complexes on methylalumoxane (MAO)
modiﬁed MCM-41 [410–413].
Ordered mesoporous silica has also been used as sup-
port for polymerization catalysts in several studies.
Tetravalent binuclear molybdenum compounds act as
initiators for the cationic polymerization of cyclopent-
adiene
and
methylcyclopentadiene.
The
MCM-41
grafted
[Mo2(l-O2CCH3)2(CH3CN)10](BF)4
shows
a
comparable polymerization activity as in the homogene-
ous case; polymethylcyclopentadiene with a molecular
mass of 96000gmol1 and polydispersity index of 1.9
was obtained [407].
Weckhuysen et al. [408,409] showed that the chro-
mium acetyl acetonate complex, [Cr(acac)3], grafted
onto Si-MCM-41 or Al-MCM-41 were eﬀective catalysts
for the gas-phase and slurry phase polymerization of
ethene. The activity of the catalysts, Cr/MCM-41 and
Cr/Al-MCM-41 (1wt% [Cr(acac)]3 loaded), used after
calcination at 650C were 6300 and 14,000gPE/gCrh,
respectively, in the slurry phase reaction under 31.4bar
of ethene at 104C. The activity of Cr/Al-MCM-41 is
comparable with that of a commercial Cr/SiO2 catalyst.
The high load melt ﬂow index (HLMI) of the polymers
obtained over Cr–Al-MCM-41 was 1.38, indicating a
polymer with a high molecular weight. The catalytic
activity increased with increase of Cr loading up to
1wt%, while higher loadings decreased the activity
again. Increase of the calcination temperature also leads
to the increase of the activity because of the eﬀective re-
moval of surface silanol groups.
Isotactic polypropylene can be prepared by the use of
rac-ethenebis(indenyl)zirconium dichloride grafted on
MCM-41 [410,411]. The number average molecular
masses (Mn) showed an approximate fourfold increase
relative to the homogeneous system. With respect to
activity (1163kg/molZrh), however, the homogeneous
system proves to be superior (4941kg/molZrh). In ethene
polymerization with zirconocene chloride (Cp2ZrCl2),
Al-MCM-41 is preferable to silica MCM-41 as a sup-
port; the activities were 15800 and 6100kgPE/molZrh,
respectively [412]. The Mn value in Cp2ZrCl2/Al-
MCM-41,
Cp2ZrCl2/MCM-41
and
homogeneous
Cp2ZrCl2
were
comparable
(451,000,
431,000
and
476,000, respectively), however, the activity of the
homogeneous catalysts is two- to threefold higher than
that of supported catalysts.
Tethering of a zirconium polymerization catalyst,
g5-cyclopentadienyltris(dimethylamido)
zirconium,
CpZr(NMe2)3, has been reported by Schneider et al.
[414]. The CpZr(NMe2)3 was immobilized via ligand ex-
change between the (NMe2) groups and previously
immobilized indenyl groups on the silica surface. The
ethene and propene polymerization activities, however,
were far below those over the homogeneous catalyst.
The authors concluded that the reaction between
CpZr(NMe2)3 and the residual surface silanol leads to
the formation of various zirconium species which are
more or less inactive. Surface silylation with hexameth-
yldisilazane slightly improves the catalytic performance,
supporting this conclusion.
A remarkable reaction was reported to lead to poly-
mers with unusual properties: crystalline polyethylene ﬁ-
bers with a diameter of 30–50nm were described to be
formed by the polymerization of ethene with Cp2TiCl2
grafted on mesoporous silica-ﬁber and MAO [methyl
aluminooxane] as a co-catalyst. The mesoporous silica
ﬁbers with mesopores supposed to be arranged in a par-
allel direction to the ﬁber axis are believed to act as
‘‘nano-extruders’’ in this template-assisted extrusion
polymerization [415,416]. However, in most of the ﬁbers
the pores are not oriented parallel to the ﬁber axis which
sheds
some
doubt
on
the
proposed
mechanism
[128,129,417].
Changing the microenvironment of Lewis acidic com-
plexes grafted via the silylamide route allows to extend
this new material to excellent polymerization catalysts
(Fig. 10). Recently, polymerization of methyl methacry-
late (MMA) catalyzed by surface grafted Sm(II) was re-
ported [418]. Ligand exchange of tetramethyldisilazane
[N(SiHMe2)2] on Sm(II) [274] with methanol, dimethyl-
indenylsilane or MAO was found to improve the activ-
ity; the smaller ligand methanol is more eﬀective than
larger dimethylindenylsilane. From the nitrogen sorp-
tion and SEM studies, the PMMA-MCM-41 composite
formed had completely ﬁlled pores or at least fully
blocked pore entrances by the polymer. By activation
of surface grafted Nd(AlMe4)3 via ligand exchange with
diethylaluminum chloride (Et2AlCl), on the other hand,
heterogeneous isoprene-polymerization catalysts can be
obtained [419]. Both the homogeneous and heterogene-
ous Nd–Et2AlCl catalysts have a high activity (yield,
>99%) with high cis-1,4-polyisoprene stereospeciﬁcity
(>99%). In comparison to the homogeneous system,
the immobilized variant produced polymer with higher
molecular weights (Mw) and smaller polydispersity in-
dex (PDI); values of 1.026 · 106 and 1.60, respectively,
for immobilized catalyst instead of 3.26 · 105 and 2.78
34
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
in homogeneous reaction. The narrow molecular-weight
distribution of the polymer obtained from the solid
catalyst can be attributed to the absence of any organo-
aluminum co-catalyst dissociation/re-association proc-
esses at the active Nd center, the authors concluded.
Surface functionalization by organic molecules im-
parts new functions to these mesoporous silicas, and,
as shown, many organometallic complexes can be
immobilized following this pathway. However, even
functionalization with non-metal containing groups
can lead to interesting properties. For example, thiol-
functionalized mesoporous silica works as a good
adsorbent of heavy metal ions from water [420,421].
With respect to catalytic applications, functionalized sil-
icas have been used for base or oxidation catalyses [422].
Knoevenagel condensations, Michael addition and con-
densation
reactions
over
alkylammonium
grafted
MCM-41 or aminopropylated mesoporous silica via
one-pot synthesis have been reported [284,423].
It
has
also
been
achieved
to
immobilize
1,8-
bis(dimethylamino)naphthalene (DMAN), a so-called
‘‘proton sponge’’, which is highly basic and therefore
widely used for proton abstraction reactions, in meso-
porous silica (Scheme 10) [424,425]. The functionalized
DMAN, 4-[(triethoxysilyl)propylaminocarbonylamino]-
1,8-bis(dimethylamino)naphthalene,
was
grafted
on
pure silica MCM-41 (denoted PS-MCM-41), and this
material is active as a catalyst in the Knoevenagel con-
densation of benzaldehyde and ethyl cyanoacetate, and
a Claisen–Schmidt condensation between benzaldehyde
and 20-hydroxyacetophenone. When using homogene-
ous DMAN and DMAN supported on amorphous sil-
ica, the polarity of the solvent has a strong eﬀect on
the reaction; the reaction rate increases with the solvent
polarity. However, PS-MCM-41 has better intrinsic
activity both in polar and non-polar solvent. This means
that the support MCM-41 can act like a polar solvent
environment and stabilize the transition state of the
intermediate complex, due to the polarity of the amino-
propyl-functionalized
MCM-41
[426,427].
Claisen–
Schmidt condensation between benzaldehyde and 20-
hydroxyacetophenone—on
ﬁrst
sight
surprisingly—
takes place over PS-MCM-41, even though the pKa of
20-hydroxyacetophenone (15.8) is higher than that of
DMAN (12.1). The interaction of the carbonyl group
and residual surface silanols of MCM-41 obviously al-
lows PS-MCM-41 to abstract protons with a higher
pKa than that of the DMAN.
Immobilization of TEMPO (2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-
piperidinyloxy), which has been known as a stable rad-
ical or radical trapping agent, on the MCM-41 surface
is interesting for designing new organic–inorganic heter-
ogeneous oxidation catalysts. Selective oxidation of pri-
mary alcohols to either carboxylates or aldehydes has
been reported by Brunel et al. (Scheme 10) [428]. In
the oxidation of a-methyl glucoside, 1-O-methyl glucur-
onate was obtained with high selectivity within 20min
when NaOCl was used as a primary oxidant at 0C.
Conversion and selectivity in 1,3-pentanediol oxidation
to c-valerolactone was reported to be 50% and >95%,
respectively. If an amide-tether was used instead of an
ether-tether, the conversion increased to 99% with the
same selectivity.
5.4. Catalysis by non-siliceous ordered mesoporous
materials
Organically modiﬁed mesoporous silicas provide
more hydrophobic environments, and therefore, hydro-
thermal stability or catalytic selectivity could be im-
proved,
as described
for several examples in the
preceding sections.
Novel options in catalysis are available with such
organically modiﬁed materials, where the organic groups
are integral parts of the framework. Ethane bridged hy-
brid mesoporous silsesquioxane with titanium incorpo-
rated into the framework, prepared from a mixture of
TEOS, 1,2-bis(trimethoxysilyl)ethane, TBOT, TMAOH,
Scheme 10.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
35
octadecyltrimethylammonium chloride, and H2O, pro-
vide a high hydrophobicity, and as predicted, is a good
epoxidation catalysts with high hydroperoxide eﬃciency
[429]. The same catalyst shows ammoximation of ketone
in the presence of H2O2 and ammonia [288]. The conver-
sion of cyclohexanone and cyclododecanone were 63.2
and 42.0mol% at 80C with selectivity towards the cor-
responding oxime of 100mol% in both cases. Interest-
ingly, catalysts still showed high activity after removal
of the ethylene groups upon calcination at 550C. The
conversions were 90 and 72.5mol% for each substrate,
respectively,
with
almost
comparable
selectivity
(>95mol%), while conventional Ti-MCM-41 showed
no catalytic activity in this reaction.
Surfactant templating has provided a breakthrough
methodology for the preparation of non-siliceous meso-
porous materials. Among these, not only oxides but also
phosphates, sulﬁdes, [430], selenides [431], metals and
many other compounds may be of interest as catalysts
or catalyst support, although—as for the ordered meso-
porous silicas—their prices could be a serious obstacle
for commercialization. Several of these non-silica meso-
porous materials have catalytic activity for certain reac-
tions. For example, hexagonal and cubic mesoporous
tin(IV) phosphates were used for NO removal in the
presence of C2H4 and O2 [432]. Hexagonal tin phosphate
was found to be more active than the cubic one. The dif-
ference in the co-ordination state of tin(IV) centers and/
or the number of surface tin(IV) species may cause the
diﬀerent activity, the authors supposed. Rhenium oxide
supported on mesoporous alumina is a good catalyst for
an oleﬁn metathesis in the liquid phase and was found to
be superior to c-alumina [433]. Titanium phosphate was
used for liquid-phase oxidation of cyclohexene. Conver-
sion to 1,2-cyclohexanediol and selectivity to this prod-
uct were 76% and 88%, respectively, when H2O2 was
used as an oxidant [434]. However, no benchmark cata-
lyst was used in this study, and thus the reported per-
formance is diﬃcult to judge.
Cerium oxide and zirconium oxide are interesting as
support materials. Mesoporous CeO2 and ZrO2 were
found to be good catalyst supports in vapor phase phe-
nol hydrogenation [435]. The hydrogenation catalyst
was palladium, which was loaded by a deposition–pre-
cipitation method into the mesopores of CeO2 and
ZrO2. Hydrogen sorption experiments conﬁrmed that
palladium was present in the catalyst in form of nano-
particles. The resulting Pd/CeO2 (3wt%) showed a phe-
nol conversion of 81.4% at 180C with a selectivity to
cyclohexanone,
cyclohexanol
and
cyclohexane
of
46.2%, 34.8% and 19.0%, respectively. The Pd/ZrO2
(3wt%) had very high selectivity for cyclohexanone
(93.0%), however, on expense of conversion, which de-
creased to 62.9%. The reported activities were higher
than for non-porous oxide supports, due to the higher
dispersion and smaller particle size of Pd.
Very interesting for catalytic applications could be
(semi)conducting mesoporous transition metal oxides.
Several reports concerning photocatalysis have been
published. An oxidative dehydrogenation of 2-propanol
to acetone was studied by use of mesoporous titania cat-
alyst [436]. The observed quantum yield of the reaction
was, however, extremely low (0.0026) as compared to
the standard titania catalyst, Degussa P25 (0.45). Simi-
larly, very low quantum yield was also found for meso-
porous Nb-TMS (0.0041). Low activities of these
mesoporous materials are due to their poor crystallinity,
where defect sites act as electron–hole traps. By loading
a NiO on Ta-TMS, although the wall of Ta-TMS was
amorphous, the photocatalytic activity for the water
decomposition was improved [437]. The large band gaps
of Ta2O5 (4.0eV) as compared to TiO2 (3.0eV), in which
the excited electrons in the conduction band of Ta2O5
have higher potentials than those in TiO2, are responsi-
ble for this high activity. The activity of NiO (4.0wt%)
loaded Ta-TMS was 150lmolh1 and 73lmolh1 for
H2 and O2, respectively. The amount of H2 and O2 evo-
lution in NiO (4.0wt%) loaded Ta-TMS was 1.5 times
higher than over NiO (1.0wt%) loaded crystalline bulk
Ta2O5. The small wall thickness of mesoporous Ta-
HMS, ca. 1.8nm corresponding to nine Ta–O bonds,
makes the material eﬀective for migration of excited
electrons, the authors claimed. This group also reported
photocatalysis activity of mesoporous Mg–Ta mixed
oxide which was prepared by use of Pluronic-123 as tem-
plate [438]. The activity in water decomposition reaction
was 100lmolh1 and 50lmolh1 for H2 and O2, respec-
tively, in the absence of NiO.
It was observed that mesoporous low-valent niobium
oxide [72] coated with niobium by the deposition of
bis(toluene) niobium could react with molecular nitro-
gen and form nitride species at room temperature
[439]. In similar materials, based on mesoporous tita-
nium oxide, it was conﬁrmed by experiments with iso-
tope labeled nitrogen that the source of nitrogen was
the reaction atmosphere [440]. Moreover, the authors re-
vealed that the surface nitride species could react with
moisture imbedded in the walls, and generate ammonia.
These results suggest that activation of nitrogen from
the atmosphere could be possible and ammonia may
be generated in such a process.
Silicon imido nitride, the pore size of which is con-
trollable by the addition of alkylamines with diﬀerent
chain length during the condensation, shows shape
selective alkylation of toluene with styrene and in the
isomerization of 1-hexadecene [441]. The mesoporous
(dav = 5.6nm) silicon imido nitride gives 100% and
80.8% of conversion, respectively, for the diﬀerent reac-
tions within minutes at 22C, whereas over microporous
catalysts (dav = 1.7nm) no reaction occurs over times up
to several tens hours. Smaller substrates, on the other
hand, are converted over both types of catalysts. How-
36
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
ever, it should be mentioned, that the micro- and meso-
porous silicon imido nitrides are not surfactant tem-
plated, although the pore size distribution is rather
narrow.
Very interesting for catalytic applications seem to be
the ordered mesoporous carbon materials. Carbons are
used in various applications as support materials, and
the extremely high surface areas and tailored pore sizes
of the ordered mesoporous carbons give an added value
which can be exploited in catalysis. CMK-5 was found
to support very high loadings of platinum in a highly
dispersed state [290]. Even for a Pt loading level of
50wt%, particle sizes of 2.5nm could be maintained,
which is much smaller than in reference carbon catalyst
supports. This highly dispersed Pt/CMK-5 material led
to superior performance in the O2 reduction in a fuel cell
setup, the peak activity at a reduction potential of
+0.900V was 100Ag1(Pt) at a loading level 33wt%,
whereas the standard Pt/carbon electrode (Vulcan-car-
bon) showed very poor activity (<10Ag1(Pt)) (Fig.
15). This is attributed to the fact that the reduction
potential of the Pt/CMK electrode is shifted to a more
positive value and the catalytic current increased sharper
than with the standard electrode. These properties are
useful for the construction of fuel cell anodes.
Some interesting electrochemical properties, high
electric double-layer capacitance (EDLC) [442,443] or
speciﬁc lithium capacitance [444], of other ordered mes-
oporous carbon (CMK-3) have also been reported. The
EDLC of mesoporous carbon (surface area = 1257m2/g
and pore diameter = 2.3nm) was reported to be 120
Fg1. Although the value is lower than for the reference
carbon material (MSC25, 200 Fg1 with 1970m2/g and
<2.0nm), the mesoporous carbon exhibited a higher
critical scan rate than the MSC25 [442]. In another re-
port, it was described that the CMK-3 modiﬁed elec-
trode showed an EDLC of 60–90F/g at a scan rate
from 5 · 104 to 5 · 102V/s in the range of 1.5 and
3.4V (Li/Li+). The speciﬁc capacitance was estimated
to 10lF/cm2, although the capacity decreased to 20%
of the initial value after 100 cycles [443]. High lithium
intercalation/de-intercalation capacity, which is closely
linked to the negative electrode in the re-chargeable lith-
ium battery, has been reported by Zhou et al. [444]. The
reversible storage capacity of 850–1100mAh/g over up
to 20 cycles of the CMK-3 electrode is appreciably
higher than that for pyrolyzed poly(vinyl chloride)
(710mAh/g) or densely packed bundles of single-wall
nanotubes, SWNTs, (595.2mAh/g). Because of the fact
that the porous SWNTs electrode gave a lower value
than CMK-3, the authors suggested that the 3D ordered
structure of CMK-3 perhaps plays a key role in this
phenomenon.
Very recently, Choi and Ryoo reported a surface-pol-
ymer coated mesoporous carbon [445]. The resultant
polymer–carbon composite material shows extremely
high mechanical strength simultaneously with high elec-
tric conductivity, suggesting new application ﬁelds for
such materials as fuel-cell electrode.
Recently an ordered mesoporous carbon has been
used for the assembly of a magnetically separable hydro-
genation catalyst [446]. To achieve this goal, the ﬁrst
steps up to the carbonization of the polymer are identi-
cal as in the synthesis of CMK-3 type carbon. However,
before removal of the silica, magnetic nanoparticles are
deposited, which are located exclusively on the external
surface, since the pore system is still blocked. After pro-
tecting the magnetic particles by a thin carbon shell and
removal of the silica by HF or NaOH, a magnetic,
highly porous carbon is achieved. Such a magnetic car-
bon loaded with palladium as hydrogenation catalyst
could be completely removed by a magnet from the
reaction solution in the test case of the hydrogenation
of octene.
It should be added, that non-silica mesoporous mate-
rials are not only useful in catalysis, but also, for exam-
ple, as ion exchangers [434] or as adsorbents [447].
6. Conclusion
There are many strategies for the design and the prep-
aration of mesoporous catalysts. The narrow and uni-
form pore size of mesoporous materials with extremely
high surface area holds much promise for the develop-
ment of novel solid catalysts. Substitution of elements
in the framework, impregnation of active components,
and immobilization of active species with pre-deter-
mined structure can create well-isolated sites with uni-
form properties. Varying wall components, as well as
surface coating or treatment with hydrophobic organic
compounds can result in the formation of new func-
tions. As far as we are aware, there are no other exam-
ples in which the same type of material can be modiﬁed
Fig. 15. Electrocatalytic mass activities of Pt/CMK-5 and Pt/carbon
(Vulcan) for the O2 reduction. (A) Catalytic activity in amperes per
gram of Pt measured at a potential of +0.900V with respect to the
normal hydrogen electrode. (B) Activity-potential relation for 33wt%
of Pt/CMK-5 and Pt/carbon at a scan rate of 50mVs1. The activities
were measured on a rotating disk electrode coated with carbon
catalysts and rotating at 10,000r.p.m in 0.1M HClO4 saturated with
O2 [290].
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
37
by so many diﬀerent means as schematically shown in
Fig. 2. This fact also highlights the high potential of
these mesoporous materials. However, one should keep
in mind that the large number of diﬀerent modiﬁcations
of these materials is also triggered by the many reports
already available in the literature and the fascination
these highly regular materials create.
Attempts of strong acid catalysis by mesoporous cat-
alysts to extend the range of applications of micropor-
ous catalysts failed so far. However, the mild acidity
of the ordered mesoporous materials themselves is very
attractive in ﬁne chemicals synthesis as the many studies
report. The wide pore openings of the mesoporous cat-
alysts minimize mass transfer problems of bulky reac-
tants and products which may be encountered in
zeolitic catalyst. Also, the large pores allow the use
bulky oxidants in ﬁne chemical oxidation. Such oxida-
tion reactions are very important in ﬁne chemicals syn-
thesis, and since the resulting compounds are often
high value added products, these rather expensive oxi-
dants can be tolerated. The inorganic materials with
their high surface area and rather wide pores are also
highly suitable for immobilization of space-active homo-
geneous catalysts. In most of the cases, the immobilized
catalytic species worked well in the immobilized state,
often actually better than expected.
There are several studies which report characteristic
phenomena attributed to the regular mesopore system,
which seem to inﬂuence the catalytic activity. Detailed
studies of these phenomena are in progress in many lab-
oratories, as in most cases satisfying explanations why
the ordered mesoporous materials are superior to less
ordered catalysts are still lacking. If in the future the ef-
fects of the pore system are understood and rationalized,
the way to better control the catalytic activity of com-
plex catalyst systems will be more clearly visible and cat-
alysts improved by design on diﬀerent length scales will
become accessible.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank for the generous continuous
funding of the DFG and the FCI over the years we have
worked on ordered mesoporous materials, in addition to
the
basic
funding
provided
by
the
MPI
fu
¨r
Kohlenforschung.
References
[1] K.S.W. Sing, D.H. Everett, R.A.W. Haul, L. Moscou, R.A.
Pierotti, J. Rouquerol, T. Siemieniewska, Pure Appl. Chem. 57
(1985) 603.
[2] An exhaustive treatment can be found in F. Schu
¨th, K. Sing, J.
WeitkampHandbook of Porous Solids, vol. I–V, Wiley-VCH,
Weinheim, 2002.
[3] M.E. Davis, C. Saldarriaga, C. Montes, J. Garces, C. Crowder,
Nature 331 (1988) 698.
[4] B.J. Schoeman, J. Sterte, J.-E. Otterstedt, J. Chem. Soc. Chem.
Commun. (1993) 994.
[5] A.H. Janssen, A.J. Koster, K.P. de Jong, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
40 (2001) 1102.
[6] I. Schmidt, A. Boisen, E. Gustavsson, K. Sta
˚hl, S. Pehrson, S.
Dahl, A. Carlsson, C.J.H. Jacobsen, Chem. Mater. 13 (2001)
4416.
[7] V. Chiola, J.E. Ritsko, C.D. Vanderpool, US Patent No. 3 556
725, 1971.
[8] F. Di Renzo, H. Cambon, R. Dutartre, Micropor. Mater. 10
(1997) 283.
[9] J.S. Beck, C.T.-W. Chu, I.D. Johnson, C.T. Kresge, M.E.
Leonowicz, W.J. Roth, J.W. Vartuli, WO Patent 91/11390, 1991.
[10] C.T. Kresge, M.E. Leonowicz, W.J. Roth, J.C. Vartuli, J.S.
Beck, Nature 359 (1992) 710.
[11] J.S. Beck, J.C. Vartuli, W.J. Roth, M.E. Leonowicz, C.T.
Kresge, K.D. Schmitt, C.T.W. Chu, D.H. Olson, E.W. Shepp-
ard, S.B. McCullen, J.B. Higgins, J.L. Schlenker, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 114 (1992) 10834.
[12] T. Yanagisawa, T. Shimizu, K. Kuroda, C. Kato, Bull. Chem.
Soc. Jpn. 63 (1990) 988.
[13] S. Inagaki, Y. Fukushima, K. Kuroda, J. Chem. Soc. Chem.
Commun. (1993) 680.
[14] S. Inagaki, A. Koiwai, N. Suzuki, Y. Fukushima, K. Kuroda,
Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 69 (1996) 1449.
[15] A. Corma, Chem. Rev. 97 (1997) 2373.
[16] U. Ciesla, F. Schu
¨th, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 131.
[17] M. Linde
´n, S. Schacht, F. Schu
¨th, A. Steel, K. Unger, J. Porous.
Mater. 5 (1998) 177.
[18] A. Tuel, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 151.
[19] P. Selvam, S.K. Bhatia, C.G. Sonwane, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 40
(2001) 3237.
[20] Y. Liu, T.J. Pinnavaia, J. Mater. Chem. 12 (2002) 3179.
[21] J.M. Thomas, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38 (1999) 3588.
[22] R. Anwander, Chem. Mater. 13 (2001) 4419.
[23] J.Y. Ying, C.P. Mehnert, M.S. Wong, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38
(1999) 56.
[24] X. He, D. Antonelli, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41 (2002) 214.
[25] A.P. Wight, M.E. Davis, Chem. Rev. 102 (2002) 3589.
[26] D.E. De Vos, M. Dams, B.F. Sels, P.A. Jacobs, Chem. Rev. 102
(2002) 3615.
[27] G.J. de A.A. Soler-Illia, C. Sanchez, B. Leveau, J. Patarin,
Chem. Rev. 102 (2002) 4093.
[28] D. Trong On, D. Desplantier-Giscard, C. Danumah, S. Kalia-
guine, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 253 (2003) 545.
[29] A. Wingen, F. Kleitz, F. Schu
¨th, in: M. Baerns (Ed.), Basic
Principles in Applied Catalysis, Springer, Berlin, 2003, p. 281.
[30] F. Schu
¨th, Chem. Mater. 13 (2001) 3184.
[31] F. Di Renzo, A. Galarneau, P. Trens, F. Fajula, in: F. Schu
¨th,
K.S.W. Sing, J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Porous Solids,
Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2002, p. 1311.
[32] A. Monnier, F. Schu
¨th, Q. Huo, D. Kumar, D. Margolese, R.S.
Maxwell, G. Stucky, M. Krishnamurty, P. Petroﬀ, A. Firouzi,
M. Janicke, B. Chmelka, Science 261 (1993) 1299.
[33] Q. Huo, D. Margolese, U. Ciesla, P. Feng, T. Gier, P. Sieger, R.
Leon, P.M. Petroﬀ, U. Ciesla, F. Schu
¨th, G. Stucky, Nature 368
(1994) 317.
[34] Q. Huo, D. Margolese, U. Ciesla, D. Demuth, P. Feng, T. Gier,
P. Sieger, A. Firouzi, B. Chmelka, F. Schu
¨th, G.D. Stucky,
Chem. Mater. 6 (1994) 1176.
[35] G.S. Attard, J.C. Glyde, C.G. Go
¨ltner, Nature 378 (1995)
366.
[36] R. Ryoo, S.H. Joo, S. Jun, J. Phys. Chem. B 103 (1999) 7743.
[37] A.H. Lu, W. Schmidt, A. Taguchi, B. Spliethoﬀ, B. Tesche, F.
Schu
¨th, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41 (2002) 3489.
38
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
[38] J.N. Israelachivili, D.J. Mitchell, B.W. Ninham, J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Trans. 72 (2) (1976) 1525.
[39] J.N. Israelachivili, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, Academic
Press, London, 1991.
[40] G.D. Stucky, A. Monnier, F. Schu
¨th, Q. Huo, D. Margolese, D.
Kumar, M. Krishnamurty, P. Petroﬀ, A. Firouzi, M. Janicke,
B.F. Chmelka, Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 240 (1994) 187.
[41] A. Firouzi, D. Kumar, L.M. Bull, T. Besier, P. Sieger, Q. Huo,
S.A. Walker, J.A. Zasadzinski, C. Glinka, J. Nicol, D.I.
Margolese, G.D. Stucky, B.F. Chmelka, Science 267 (1995)
1138.
[42] J.C. Vartuli, K.D. Schmitt, C.T. Kresge, W.J. Roth, M.E.
Leonowicz, S.B. McCullen, S.D. Hellring, J.S. Beck, J.L.
Schlenker, D.H. Olson, E.W. Sheppard, Chem. Mater. 6 (1994)
2317.
[43] Q. Huo, R. Leon, P.M. Petroﬀ, G.D. Stucky, Science 268 (1995)
1324.
[44] Q. Huo, D.I. Margolese, G.D. Stucky, Chem. Mater. 8 (1996)
1147.
[45] S. Che, A.E. Garcia-Bennett, T. Yokoi, K. Sakamoto, H.
Kunieda, O. Terasaki, T. Tatsumi, Nature Mater. 2 (2003)
801.
[46] A.E. Garcia-Bennett, O. Terasaki, S. Che, T. Tatsumi, Chem.
Mater. 16 (2004) 813.
[47] M. Linde
´n, P. A
˚ gren, S. Karlsson, P. Bussian, H. Amenitsch,
Langmuir 16 (2000) 5831.
[48] N. Ulagappan, C.N.R. Rao, Chem. Commun. (1996) 2759.
[49] A. Lind, J. Andersson, S. Karlsson, P. A
˚ gren, P. Bussian, H.
Amenitsch, M. Linde
´n, Langmuir 18 (2002) 1380.
[50] S. Namba, A. Mochizuki, M. Kito, Chem. Lett. (1998) 569.
[51] U. Ciesla, D.G. Demuth, R. Leon, P.M. Petroﬀ, G.D. Stucky,
K.K. Unger, F. Schu
¨th, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. (1994)
1387.
[52] D.M. Antonelli, J.Y. Ying, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 34 (1995)
2014.
[53] U. Ciesla, S. Schacht, G.D. Stucky, K. Unger, F. Schu
¨th,
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 35 (1996) 541.
[54] P.T. Tanev, T.J. Pinnavaia, Science 267 (1995) 865.
[55] P.T. Tanev, M. Chibwe, T.J. Pinnavaia, Nature 368 (1994)
321.
[56] S.A. Bagshaw, E. Prouzet, T.J. Pinnavaia, Science 269 (1995)
1242.
[57] T.R. Pauly, Y. Liu, T.J. Pinnavaia, S.J.L. Billige, T.P. Rieker, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 121 (1997) 8835.
[58] E. Prouzet, T.J. Pinnavaia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 36 (1997)
516.
[59] K. Cassiers, P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant, Chem. Commun.
(2000) 2489.
[60] P.T. Tanav, T.J. Pinnavaia, Chem. Mater. 8 (1996) 2068.
[61] W. Zhang, T.R. Pauly, T.J. Pinnavaia, Chem. Mater. 9 (1997)
2491.
[62] D. Zhao, Q. Huo, J. Feng, B.F. Chmelka, G.D. Stucky, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 120 (1998) 6024.
[63] D. Zhao, J. Feng, Q. Huo, N. Melosh, G.H. Fredrickson, B.F.
Chmelka, G.D. Stucky, Science 279 (1998) 548.
[64] P. Yang, D. Zhao, D.I. Margolese, B.F. Chmelka, G.D. Stucky,
Nature 396 (1998) 152.
[65] P. Yang, D. Zhao, D.I. Margolese, B.F. Chmelka, G.D. Stucky,
Chem. Mater. 11 (1999) 2813.
[66] A. Galarneau, H. Cambon, F.D. Renzo, R. Ryoo, M. Choi, F.
Fajula, New J. Chem. 27 (2003) 73.
[67] M. Impe
´ror-Clerc, P. Davidson, A. Davidson, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 122 (2000) 11925.
[68] R. Ryoo, C.H. Ko, M. Kruk, V. Antochshuk, M. Jaroniec, J.
Phys. Chem. B 104 (2000) 11465.
[69] Z. Liu, O. Terasaki, T. Ohsuna, K. Hiraga, H.J. Shin, R. Ryoo,
Chem. Phys. Chem. 2 (2001) 229.
[70] S.A. Bagshaw, T.J. Pinnavaia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 35 (1996)
1102.
[71] B. Lee, D. Lu, J.N. Kondo, K. Domen, Chem. Commun. (2001)
2118.
[72] D.M. Antonelli, J.Y. Ying, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 35 (1996)
426.
[73] D.M. Antonelli, J.Y. Ying, Chem. Mater. 8 (1996) 874.
[74] D.M. Antonelli, A. Nakahira, J.Y. Ying, Inorg. Chem. 35 (1996)
3126.
[75] J.J.E. Moreau, L. Vellutini, M.W.C. Man, C. Bied, J.-L.
Bantignies, P. Dieudonne
´, J.-L. Sauvojol, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
123 (2001) 7957.
[76] E. Ruiz-Hitzky, S. Letaı
¨ef, V. Pre
´vot, Adv. Mater. 14 (2002) 439.
[77] A. Shimojima, K. Kuroda, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 (2003)
4057.
[78] G.S. Attard, C.G. Go
¨ltner, J.M. Corker, S. Henke, R.H.
Templer, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 36 (1997) 1315.
[79] C.G. Go
¨ltner, M. Antonietti, Adv. Mater. 9 (1997) 431.
[80] G.S. Attard, P.N. Bartlett, N.R.B. Coleman, J.M. Elliott, J.R.
Owen, J.H. Wang, Science 278 (1997) 838.
[81] A.H. Whitehead, J.M. Elliott, J.R. Owen, G.S. Attard, Chem.
Commun. (1999) 331.
[82] P.V. Braun, P. Osenar, S.I. Stupp, Nature 380 (1996) 325.
[83] H. Kang, Y.-W. Jun, J.-I. Park, K.-B. Lee, J. Cheon, Chem.
Mater. 12 (2000) 3530.
[84] S.A. Johnson, D. Khushalani, N. Coombs, T.E. Mallouk, G.A.
Ozin, J. Mater. Chem. 8 (1998) 13.
[85] J.Y. Kim, S.B. Yoon, F. Kooli, J.-S. Yu, J. Mater. Chem. 11
(2001) 2912.
[86] S.C. Laha, R. Ryoo, Chem. Commun. (2003) 2138.
[87] K. Zhu, B. Yue, W. Zhou, H. He, Chem. Commun. (2003) 98.
[88] B. Tian, X. Liu, H. Yang, S. Xie, C. Yu, B. Tu, D. Zhao, Adv.
Mater. 15 (2003) 1370.
[89] K. Lee, Y.-H. Kim, S.B. Han, H. Kang, S. Park, W.S. Seo, J.T.
Park, B. Kim, S. Chang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 6844.
[90] H. Yang, Q. Shi, B. Tian, Q. Lu, F. Gao, S. Xie, J. Fan, C. Yu,
B. Tu, D. Zhao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 4724.
[91] B. Tian, X. Liu, L.A. Solovyov, Z. Liu, H. Yang, Z. Zhang, S.
Xie, F. Zhang, B. Tu, C. Yu, O. Terasaki, D. Zhao, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 126 (2004) 865.
[92] Y. Wang, C.M. Yang, W. Schmidt, B. Spliethoﬀ, F. Schu
¨th, Adv.
Mater. (in press).
[93] M. Kang, S.H. Yi, H.I. Lee, J.E. Yie, J.M. Kim, Chem.
Commun. (2002) 1944.
[94] A. Lu, W. Schmidt, F. Schu
¨th, Chem. Eur. J. (in press).
[95] A. Galarneau, A. Barodawalla, T.J. Pinnavaia, Nature 374
(1995) 529.
[96] A. Galarneau, D. Desplantier-Giscard, F. di Renzo, F. Fajula,
Catal. Today 68 (2001) 191.
[97] K. Cassiers, T. Linssen, M. Mathieu, M. Benjelloun, K.
Schrijnemakers, P. Van Der Voort, P. Cool, E.F. Vansant,
Chem. Mater. 14 (2002) 2317.
[98] N. Igarashi, K.A. Koyano, Y. Tanaka, S. Nakata, K. Hashi-
moto, T. Tatsumi, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 59 (2003) 43.
[99] R. Ryoo, S. Jun, J. Phys. Chem. B 101 (1997) 317.
[100] J.M. Kisler, M.L. Gee, G.W. Stevens, A.J. OConnor, Chem.
Mater. 15 (2003) 619.
[101] A.S. ONeil, R. Mokaya, M. Poliakoﬀ, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124
(2002) 10636.
[102] S.L. Burkett, S.D. Sim, S. Mann, Chem. Commun. (1996)
1367.
[103] D.J. Macquarrie, Chem. Commun. (1996) 1961.
[104] S. Inagaki, S. Guan, Y. Fukushima, T. Ohsuna, O. Terasaki, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 121 (1999) 9611.
[105] D. Brunel, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 329.
[106] A. Stein, B.J. Melde, R.C. Schroden, Adv. Mater. 12 (2000)
1403.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
39
[107] M.J. MacLachlan, T. Asefa, G.A. Ozin, Chem. Eur. J. 6 (2000)
2507.
[108] A. Sayari, S. Hamoudi, Chem. Mater. 13 (2001) 3151.
[109] F. Schu
¨th, Y. Wang, C.-M. Yang, B. Zibrowius, in: N. Auner
(Ed.), Organosilicon Chemistry VI, Wiley-VCH, in press.
[110] R. Mokaya, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38 (1999) 2930.
[111] R. Mokaya, W. Jones, J. Mater. Chem. 9 (1999) 555.
[112] R.D. Oldroyd, G. Sankar, J.M. Thomas, D. O
¨ zkaya, J. Phys.
Chem. B. 102 (1998) 1849.
[113] M. Jia, A. Seifert, W.R. Thiel, Chem. Mater. 15 (2003) 2174.
[114] M.J. Climent, A. Corma, S. Iborra, S. Miquel, J. Primo, F. Rey,
J. Catal. 183 (1999) 76.
[115] A. Bhaumik, T. Tatsumi, J. Catal. 189 (2000) 31.
[116] M.L. Pen
˜a, V. Dellarocca, F. Rey, A. Corma, S. Coluccia, L.
Marchese, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 345.
[117] P. Wu, T. Tatsumi, T. Komatsu, T. Yashima, Chem. Mater. 14
(2002) 1657.
[118] D.-W. Park, S.-D. Choi, S.-J. Choi, C.-Y. Lee, G.-J. Kim,
Catal. Lett. 78 (2002) 145.
[119] L. Vradman, M.V. Landau, M. Herskowitz, V. Ezersky, M.
Talianker, S. Nikitenko, Y. Koltypin, A. Gedanken, J. Catal.
213 (2003) 163.
[120] S.-T. Wong, H.-P. Lin, C.-Y. Mou, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 198
(2000) 103.
[121] H.P. Lin, C.Y. Mou, Science 273 (1996) 765.
[122] H.-P. Lin, S. Cheng, C.-Y. Mou, Micropor. Mater. 10 (1997)
111.
[123] W.-H. Chen, Q. Zhao, H.-P. Lin, Y.-S. Yang, C.-Y. Mou, S.-B.
Liu, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 66 (2003) 209.
[124] H. Yang, A. Kuperman, N. Coombs, S. Mamiche-Afara, G.A.
Ozin, Nature 379 (1996) 703.
[125] S. Schacht, Q. Huo, G.D. Stucky, F. Schu
¨th, Science 273 (1996)
768.
[126] D. Zhao, P. Yang, N. Melosh, J. Feng, B.F. Chmelka, G.D.
Stucky, Adv. Mater. 10 (1998) 1380.
[127] Q. Huo, D. Zhao, J. Feng, K. Weston, S.K. Buratto, G.D.
Stucky, S. Schacht, F. Schu
¨th, Adv. Mater. 9 (1997) 974.
[128] F. Marlow, F. Kleitz, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001)
671.
[129] F. Kleitz, F. Schu
¨th, G.D. Stucky, F. Marlow, Chem. Mater. 13
(2001) 3587.
[130] J. Wang, J. Zhang, B.Y. Asoo, G.D. Stucky, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
125 (2003) 13966.
[131] F. Kleitz, U. Wilczok, F. Schu
¨th, F. Marlow, Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 3 (2001) 3486.
[132] P.J. Bruinsma, A.Y. Kim, J. Liu, S. Baskaran, Chem. Mater. 9
(1997) 2507.
[133] Y.F. Lu, H.Y. Fan, A. Stump, T.L. Ward, T. Rieker, C.J.
Brinker, Nature 398 (1999) 223.
[134] Q. Huo, J. Feng, F. Schu
¨th, G.D. Stucky, Chem. Mater. 9
(1997) 14.
[135] S.H. Tolbert, A. Firouzi, G.D. Stucky, B.F. Chmelka, Science
278 (1997) 264.
[136] M. Ogawa, Chem. Commun. (1996) 1149.
[137] B.T. Holland, L. Abrams, A. Stein, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121
(1999) 4308.
[138] J.-H. Sma
˚tt, S. Schunk, M. Linde
´n, Chem. Mater. 15 (2003)
2354.
[139] L.T. Zhuravlev, Langmuir 3 (1987) 316.
[140] M. Widenmeyer, R. Anwander, Chem. Mater. 14 (2002)
1827.
[141] X.S. Zhao, G.Q. Lu, A.K. Whittaker, G.J. Millar, H.Y. Zhu, J.
Phys. Chem. B 101 (1997) 6525.
[142] H. Landmesser, H. Kosslick, W. Storek, R. Fricke, Solid State
Ion. 101–103 (1997) 271.
[143] J. Jarupatrakorn, T.D. Tilley, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 (2002)
8380.
[144] C. Nozaki, C.G. Lugmair, A.T. Bell, T.D. Tilley, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 124 (2002) 13194.
[145] M.F. Ottaviani, A. Galarneau, D. Desplantiers-Giscard, F. Di
Renzo, F. Fajula, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 1.
[146] A. Corma, M.T. Navarro, M. Renz, J. Catal. 219 (2003) 242.
[147] C.Y. Chen, H.X. Li, M.E. Davis, Micropor. Mater. 2 (1993) 17.
[148] A. Corma, V. Forne
´s, M.T. Navarro, J. Pe
´rez-Pariente, J. Catal.
148 (1994) 569.
[149] M. Hunger, U. Schenk, M. Breuninger, R. Gla
¨ser, J. Weitkamp,
Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 261.
[150] A. Jentys, K. Kleestorfer, H. Vinek, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater.
27 (1999) 321.
[151] B. Chakraborty, B. Viswanathan, Catal. Today 49 (1999) 253.
[152] H. Landmesser, H. Kosslick, U. Ku
¨rschner, R. Fricke, J. Chem.
Soc. Faraday Trans. 94 (1998) 971.
[153] L.Y. Chen, Z. Ping, G.K. Chuah, S. Jaenicke, G. Simon,
Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 231.
[154] A. Auroux, Top. Catal. 19 (2002) 205.
[155] R. Schmidt, D. Akporiaye, M. Sto
¨cker, O.H. Ellestad, Chem.
Commun. (1994) 1493.
[156] Z. Luan, C.-F. Cheng, H. He, J. Klinowski, J. Phys. Chem. 99
(1995) 10590.
[157] R.B. Borade, A. Clearﬁeld, Catal. Lett. 31 (1995) 267.
[158] M.L. Occelli, S. Biz, A. Auroux, G.J. Ray, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 26 (1998) 193.
[159] Y. Yue, A. Ge
´de
´on, J.-L. Bonardet, N. Melosh, J.-B. DEspi-
nose, J. Fraissard, Chem. Commun. (1999) 1967.
[160] T. Takeguchi, J.-B. Kim, M. Kang, T. Inui, W.-T. Cheuh, G.L.
Haller, J. Catal. 175 (1998) 1.
[161] M.V. Landau, E. Dafa, M.L. Kaliya, T. Sen, M. Herskowitz,
Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 49 (2001) 65.
[162] R. Ryoo, S. Jun, J.M. Kim, M.J. Kim, Chem. Commun. (1997)
2225.
[163] Y. Zhu, S. Jaenicke, G.K. Chuah, J. Catal. 218 (2003) 396.
[164] K.R. Kloetstra, H. van Bekkum, J.C. Jansen, Chem. Commun.
(1997) 2281.
[165] Z. Zhang, Y. Han, L. Zhu, R. Wang, Y. Yu, S. Qiu, D. Zhao,
F.-S. Xiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40 (2001) 1258.
[166] Y. Liu, W. Zhang, T.J. Pinnavaia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40
(2001) 1255.
[167] W. Guo, L. Huang, P. Deng, Z. Xue, Q. Li, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 44–45 (2001) 427.
[168] X. Meng, D. Li, X. Yang, Y. Yu, S. Wu, Y. Han, Q. Yang, D.
Jiang, F.-S. Xiao, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 8972.
[169] S.P.B. Kremer, C.E.A. Kirschhock, A. Aerts, K. Villani, J.A.
Martens, O.I. Lebedev, G. Van Tendeloo, Adv. Mater. 15 (2003)
1705.
[170] D. Trong On, S. Kaliaguine, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41 (2002)
1036.
[171] D. Trong-On, A. Ungureanu, S. Kaliaguine, Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys. 5 (2003) 3534.
[172] D. Trong On, S. Kaliaguine, in: S.-E. Park, R. Ryoo, W.-S.
Ahn, C.W. Lee, J.-S. Chang (Eds.), Nanotechnology in Meso-
structured Materials, Studies in Surface Science Catalysis, vol.
146, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2003, p. 561.
[173] M. Onaka, R. Yamazaki, Chem. Lett. (1998) 259.
[174] R.T. Yang, T.J. Pinnavaia, W. Li, W. Zhang, J. Catal. 172
(1997) 488.
[175] C. Liu, X. Ye, Y. Wu, Catal. Lett. 36 (1996) 263.
[176] C. Liu, Y. Shan, X. Yang, X. Ye, Y. Wu, J. Catal. 168 (1997)
35.
[177] S.S. Kim, W.Z. Zhang, T.J. Pinnavaia, Catal. Lett. 43 (1997)
149.
[178] J. Połtowicz, E.M. Serwicka, E. Bastardo-Gonzalez, W. Jones,
R. Mokaya, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 218 (2001) 211.
[179] L. Frunza, H. Kosslick, H. Landmesser, E. Ho
¨ft, R. Fricke, J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 123 (1997) 179.
40
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
[180] G.J. Kim, S.H. Kim, Catal. Lett. 57 (1999) 139.
[181] D. Trong On, P.N. Joshi, S. Kaliaguine, J. Phys. Chem. 100
(1996) 6743.
[182] K. Okumura, K. Nishigaki, M. Niwa, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 44–45 (2001) 509.
[183] M.D. Alba, Z. Luan, J. Klinowski, J. Phys. Chem. 100 (1996)
2178.
[184] A. Corma, M.T. Navarro, J. Pe
´rez Pariente, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. (1994) 147.
[185] J. El Haskouri, S. Cabrera, M. Gutierrez, A. Beltra
´n-Porter, D.
Beltra
´n-Porter, M.D. Marcos, P. Amoro
´s, Chem. Commun.
(2001) 309.
[186] M.A. Markowitz, S. Jayasundera, J.B. Miller, J. Klaehn, M.C.
Burleigh, M.S. Spector, S.L. Golledge, D.G. Castner, B.P.
Gaber, Dalton Trans. (2003) 3398.
[187] T. Maschmeyer, F. Rey, G. Sankar, J.M. Thomas, Nature 378
(1995) 159.
[188] B.J. Aronson, C.F. Blanford, A. Stein, Chem. Mater. 9 (1997)
2842.
[189] P. Wu, M. Iwamoto, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 94 (1998)
2871.
[190] A. Hagen, D. Wei, G.L. Haller, in: L. Bonneviot, F. Be
´land, C.
Danuhma,
S.
Giasson, S.
Kaliaguine (Eds.),
Mesoporous
Molecular Sieves 1998, Studies in Surface Science Catalysis,
vol. 117, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1998, p. 191.
[191] M. Widenmeyer, S. Grasser, K. Ko
¨hler, R. Anwander, Micro-
por. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 327.
[192] Z. Luan, E.M. Maes, P.A.W. van der Heide, D. Zhao, R.S.
Czernuszewicz, L. Kevan, Chem. Mater. 11 (1999) 3680.
[193] M. Yonemitsu, Y. Tanaka, M. Iwamoto, Chem. Mater. 9 (1997)
2679.
[194] M. Yonemitsu, Y. Tanaka, M. Iwamoto, J. Catal. 178 (1998)
207.
[195] Q. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y. Ohishi, T. Shishido, K. Takehira, J.
Catal. 202 (2001) 308.
[196] N. Lang, P. Delichere, A. Tuel, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 56
(2002) 203.
[197] Y. Wang, Q. Zhang, T. Shishido, K. Takehira, J. Catal. 209
(2002) 186.
[198] P. Van Der Voort, M. Morey, G.D. Stucky, M. Mathieu, E.F.
Vansant, J. Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 585.
[199] M. Morey, A. Davidson, H. Eckert, G. Stucky, Chem. Mater. 8
(1996) 486.
[200] V. Caps, S.C. Tshang, Catal. Today 61 (2000) 19.
[201] P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant, J. Phys. Chem. B 103 (1999)
10102.
[202] P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 38
(2000) 385.
[203] P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant, in: A. Sayari, M. Jaroniec, T.J.
Pinnavaia (Eds.), Nanoporous Materials II, Studies in Surface
Science Catalysis, vol. 129, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2000, p.
317.
[204] A. Roucoux, J. Schulz, H. Patin, Chem. Rev. 102 (2002)
3757.
[205] U. Junges, W. Jacobs, I. Voigt-Martin, B. Krutzsch, F. Schu
¨th,
J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. (1995) 2283.
[206] M.A
´ . Aramendia, V. Borau, C. Jime
´nez, J.M. Marinas, F.J.
Romero, Chem. Commun. (1999) 873.
[207] N. Yao, C. Pinckney, S. Lim, C. Pak, G.L. Haller, Micropor.
Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 377.
[208] J.A. Darr, M. Poliakoﬀ, Chem. Rev. 99 (1999) 495.
[209] H. Wakayama, N. Setoyama, Y. Fukushima, Adv. Mater. 15
(2003) 742.
[210] P.L. Dhepe, A. Fukushima, M. Ichikawa, Chem. Commun.
(2003) 590.
[211] C.M. Yang, P.H. Liu, Y.F. Ho, C.Y. Chiu, K.J. Chao, Chem.
Mater. 15 (2002) 275.
[212] A.H. Janssen, C.-M. Yang, Y. Wang, F. Schu
¨th, A.J. Koster,
K.P. de Jong, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 10552.
[213] C.M. Yang, M. Kalwei, F. Schu
¨th, K.J. Chao, Appl. Catal. A:
Gen. 254 (2003) 289.
[214] S. Suvanto, T.A. Pakkanen, L. Backman, Appl. Catal. A: Gen.
177 (1999) 25.
[215] S. Suvanto, J. Hukkama
¨ki, T.T. Pakkanen, T.A. Pakkanen,
Langmuir 16 (2000) 4109.
[216] T. Yamamoto, T. Shido, S. Inagaki, Y. Fukushima, M.
Ichikawa, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118 (1996) 5810.
[217] T. Yamamoto, T. Shido, S. Inagaki, Y. Fukushima, M.
Ichikawa, J. Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 3866.
[218] W. Zhou, J.M. Thomas, D.S. Shephard, B.F.G. Johnson, D.
Ozkaya, T. Maschmeyer, R.G. Bell, Q. Ge, Science 280 (1998)
705.
[219] D.S. Shephard, T. Maschmeyer, G. Sankar, J.M. Thomas, D.
Ozkaya, B.F.G. Johnson, R. Raja, R.D. Oldroyd, R.G. Bell,
Chem. Eur. J. 4 (1998) 1214.
[220] S. Hermans, R. Raja, J.M. Thomas, B.F.G. Johnson, G. Sankar,
D. Gleeson, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40 (2001) 1211.
[221] R. Raja, T. Khimyak, J.M. Thomas, S. Hermans, B.F.G.
Johnson, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40 (2001) 4638.
[222] E. Brivio, A. Ceriotti, R.D. Pergola, L. Garlaschelli, F. Domar-
tin, M. Manassero, M. Sansoni, P. Zanello, F. Laschi, B.T.
Heaton, J. Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. (1994) 3237.
[223] R. Raja, G. Sankar, S. Hermans, D.S. Shephard, S. Bromley,
J.M. Thomas, B.F.G. Johnson, Chem. Commun. (1999) 1571.
[224] F. Schu
¨th, A. Wingen, J. Sauer, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–
45 (2001) 465.
[225] W. Stichert, F. Schu
¨th, Chem. Mater. 10 (1998) 2020.
[226] M.V. Landau, L. Titelman, L. Vradman, P. Wilson, Chem.
Commun. (2003) 594.
[227] T. Abe, Y. Tachibana, T. Uematsu, M. Iwamoto, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. (1995) 1617.
[228] M. Iwamoto, T. Abe, Y. Tachibana, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.
155 (2000) 143.
[229] M. Fro
¨ba, R. Ko
¨hn, G. Bouﬀaud, Chem. Mater. 11 (1999)
2858.
[230] L. Zhang, G.C. Papaefthymiou, J.Y. Ying, J. Phys. Chem. B 105
(2001) 7414.
[231] M. Eswaramoorthy, Neeraj, C.N.R. Rao, Chem. Commun.
(1998) 615.
[232] M. Clemente-Leo
´n, E. Coronado, A. Forment-Aliaga, J.M.
Martı
´nez-Agudo, P. Amoro
´s, Polyhedron 22 (2003) 2395.
[233] K.R. Kloetstra, H. van Bekkum, in: H. Chon, S.-K. Ihm, Y.S.
Uh (Eds.), Progress in Zeolite and Mesoporous Materials,
Studies in Surface Science Catalysis, vol. 105, Elsevier, Amster-
dam, 1997, p. 431.
[234] V.R. Choudhary, S.K. Jana, B.P. Kiran, J. Catal. 192 (2000)
257.
[235] V.R. Choudhary, S.K. Jana, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 184 (2002)
247.
[236] J.-M. Clacens, Y. Pouilloux, J. Barrault, Appl. Catal. A: Gen.
227 (2002) 181.
[237] F. Yagi, N. Kanuka, H. Tsuji, H. Kita, H. Hattori, in: H.
Hattori, M. Misono, Y. Ono (Eds.), Acid–Base Catalysis II,
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, vol. 90, Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 1994, p. 349.
[238] J. Sauer, F. Marlow, B. Spliethoﬀ, F. Schu
¨th, Chem. Mater. 14
(2002) 217.
[239] S.V. Nguyen, V. Szabo, D. Trong On, S. Kaliaguine, Micropor.
Mesopor. Mater. 54 (2002) 51.
[240] I.V. Kozhevnikov, K.R. Kloetstra, A. Sinnema, H.W. Zandber-
gen, H. van Bekkum, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 114 (1996)
287.
[241] T. Blasco, A. Corma, A. Martı
´nez, P. Martı
´nez-Escolano, J.
Catal. 177 (1998) 306.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
41
[242] M.J. Verhoef, P.J. Kooyman, J.A. Peters, H. van Bekkum,
Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 365.
[243] A. Ghanbari-Siahkali, A. Philippou, J. Dwyer, M.W. Anderson,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 192 (2000) 57.
[244] Q.-H. Xia, K. Kidajat, S. Kawi, J. Catal. 209 (2002) 433.
[245] T. Okuhara, N. Mizuno, M. Misono, Adv. Catal. 41 (1996) 113.
[246] I.V. Kozhevnikov, Chem. Rev. 98 (1998) 171.
[247] N. Mizuno, M. Misono, Chem. Rev. 98 (1998) 199.
[248] A. Maldotti, A. Molinari, G. Varani, M. Lenarda, L. Storaro,
F. Bigi, R. Maggi, A. Mazzacani, G. Sartori, J. Catal. 209
(2002) 210.
[249] T. Ookoshi, M. Onaka, Chem. Commun. (1998) 2399.
[250] K.M. Reddy, B. Wei, C. Song, Catal. Today 43 (1998)
261.
[251] C. Song, K.M. Reddy, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 176 (1999) 1.
[252] S. Krijnen, H.C.L. Abbenhuis, R.W.J.M. Hanssen, J.H.C. van
Hooﬀ, R.A. van Santen, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 37 (1998) 356.
[253] E. Rivera-Mun
˜oz, D. Lardizabal, G. Alonso, A. Aguilar, M.H.
Siadati, R.R. Chianelli, Catal. Lett. 85 (2003) 147.
[254] P.-P. Knops-Gerrits, D. De Vos, F. Thibault-Starzyk, P.A.
Jacobs, Nature 369 (1994) 543.
[255] B. Pugin, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 107 (1996) 273.
[256] H.H. Wagner, H. Hausmann, W.F. Ho
¨lderich, J. Catal. 203
(2001) 150.
[257] F.M. de Rego, D.K. Morita, K.C. Ott, W. Tumas, R.D. Broene,
Chem. Commun. (2000) 1797.
[258] J. Jamis, J.R. Anderson, R.S. Dickson, E.M. Campi, W.R.
Jackson, J. Organomet. Chem. 603 (2000) 80.
[259] C. Bianchini, D.G. Burnaby, J. Evans, P. Frediani, A. Meli, W.
Oberhauser, R. Pasaro, L. Sordelli, F. Vizza, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
121 (1999) 5961.
[260] C. Bianchini, V. Dal Santo, A. Meli, W. Oberhauser, R. Pasaro,
F. Vizza, Organometallics 19 (2000) 2433.
[261] J.F. Dı
´ az, K.J. Balkus Jr., J. Mol. Catal. B: Enzym. 2 (1996) 115.
[262] H.H.P. Yiu, P.A. Wright, N.P. Botting, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 44–45 (2001) 763.
[263] C. Lei, Y. Shin, J. Liu, E.J. Ackerman, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124
(2002) 11242.
[264] Y.-J. Han, J.T. Watson, G.D. Stucky, A. Butler, J. Mol. Catal.
B: Enzym. 17 (2002) 1.
[265] H. Takahashi, B. Li, T. Sasaki, C. Miyazaki, T. Kajino, S.
Inagaki, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 755.
[266] H.H.P. Yiu, P.A. Wright, N.P. Botting, J. Mol. Catal. B:
Enzym. 15 (2001) 81.
[267] A. Kinting, H. Krause, M. C
ˇ apka, J. Mol. Catal. 33 (1985)
215.
[268] A. Bleloch, B.F.G. Johnson, S.V. Ley, A.J. Price, D.S. Shephard,
A.W. Thomas, Chem. Commun. (1999) 1907.
[269] H.M. Hultman, M. de Lang, M. Nowotny, I.W.C.E. Arends, U.
Hanefeld, R.A. Sheldon, T. Maschmeyer, in: E. Gaigneaux,
D.E. De Vos, P. Grange, P.A. Jacobs, J.A. Martens, P. Ruiz, G.
Poncelet (Eds.), Scientiﬁc Bases for the Preparation of Hetero-
geneous Catalysts, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, vol.
143, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2002, p. 277.
[270] B.F.G. Johnson, S.A. Raynor, D.S. Shephard, T. Maschmeyer,
J.M. Thomas, G. Sankar, S. Bromley, R. Oldroyd, L. Gladden,
M.D. Mantle, Chem. Commun. (1999) 1167.
[271] S.A. Raynor, J.M. Thomas, R. Raja, B.F.G. Johnson, R.G.
Bell, M.G. Mantle, Chem. Commun. (2000) 1925.
[272] R. Anwander, C. Palm, G. Gerstberger, O. Groeger, G.
Engelhardt, Chem. Commun. (1998) 1811.
[273] G. Gerstberger, C. Palm, R. Anwander, Chem. Eur. J. 5 (1999)
997.
[274] I. Nagl, M. Widenmeyer, S. Grasser, K. Ko
¨hler, R. Anwander,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 (2000) 1544.
[275] G. Gerstberger, R. Anwander, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–
45 (2001) 303.
[276] J.M. Thomas, T. Maschmeyer, B.F.G. Johnson, D.S. Shephard,
J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 141 (1999) 139.
[277] A. Corma, M. Iglesias, C. del Pin
˜o, F. Sa
´nchez, J. Organomet.
Chem. 431 (1992) 233.
[278] M.V. Landau, in: F. Schu
¨th, K.S.W. Sing, J. Weitkamp (Eds.),
Handbook of Porous Solids, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2002, p.
1677.
[279] A. Stein, M. Fendorf, T.P. Jarvie, K.T. Muller, A.J. Benesi,
T.E. Mallouk, Chem. Mater. 7 (1995) 304.
[280] F. Kleitz, S.J. Thomson, Z. Liu, O. Terasaki, F. Schu
¨th, Chem.
Mater. 14 (2002) 4134.
[281] B. Tian, X. Liu, B. Tu, C. Yu, J. Fan, L. Wang, S. Xie, G.D.
Stucky, D. Zhao, Nature Mater. 2 (2003) 159.
[282] H. Yoshitake, T. Tatsumi, Chem. Mater. 15 (2003) 1695.
[283] M.P. Kapoor, Y. Ichihashi, K. Kuraoka, Y. Matsumura, J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 198 (2003) 303.
[284] D.J. Macquarrie, D.B. Jackson, Chem. Commun. (1997) 1781.
[285] T. Asefa, M.J. MacLachlan, N. Coombs, G.A. Ozin, Nature 402
(1999) 867.
[286] S. Inagaki, S. Guan, T. Ohsuna, O. Terasaki, Nature 416 (2002)
304.
[287] A. Bhaumik, T. Tatsumi, Catal. Lett. 66 (2000) 181.
[288] A. Bhaumik, M.P. Kapoor, S. Inagaki, Chem. Commun. (2003)
470.
[289] R. Ryoo, S.H. Joo, M. Kruk, M. Jaroniec, Adv. Mater. 13
(2001) 677.
[290] S.H. Joo, S.J. Choi, I. Oh, J. Kwak, Z. Liu, O. Terasaki, R.
Ryoo, Nature 412 (2001) 169.
[291] T.-W. Kim, I.-S. Park, R. Ryoo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42
(2003) 4375.
[292] F. Schu
¨th, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 (2003) 3604.
[293] Z. Liu, Y. Sakamoto, T. Ohsuna, K. Hiraga, O. Terasaki, C.H.
Ko, H.J. Shin, R. Ryoo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 39 (2000) 3107.
[294] H.J. Shin, R. Ryoo, Z. Liu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123 (2001) 1246.
[295] H.J. Shin, C.H. Ko, R. Ryoo, J. Mater. Chem. 11 (2001) 260.
[296] J.Y. Kim, S.B. Yoon, J.-S. Yu, Chem. Mater. 15 (2003) 1932.
[297] C.J.H. Jacobsen, C. Madsen, J. Houzvicka, I. Schmidt, A.
Carlsson, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 (2000) 7116.
[298] Y. Tao, H. Kanoh, K. Kaneko, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003)
6044.
[299] O.D. Velev, T.A. Jede, R.F. Lobo, A.M. Lenhoﬀ, Nature 389
(1997) 447.
[300] A. Imhof, D.J. Pine, Nature 389 (1997) 948.
[301] H. Yan, C.F. Blanford, B.T. Holland, W.H. Smyrl, A. Stein,
Chem. Mater. 12 (2000) 1134.
[302] M.A. Al-Daous, A. Stein, Chem. Mater. 15 (2003) 2638.
[303] M.A. Carreon, V.V. Guliants, Chem. Commun. (2001) 1438.
[304] M.A. Carreon, V.V. Guliants, Chem. Mater. 14 (2002) 2670.
[305] C.H. Christensen, K. Johannsen, I. Schmidt, C.H. Christensen,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 13370.
[306] F.A. Twaiq, A.R. Mohamed, S. Bhatia, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 64 (2003) 95.
[307] E. Byambajav, Y. Ohtuska, Fuel 82 (2003) 1571.
[308] M.A. Uddin, Y. Sakata, A. Muto, Y. Shiraga, K. Koizumi, Y.
Kanada, K. Murata, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 21 (1998) 557.
[309] A. Corma, M.S. Grande, V. Gonzalez-Alfaro, A.V. Orchilles, J.
Catal. 159 (1996) 375.
[310] J.P.G. Pater, P.A. Jacobs, J.A. Martens, J. Catal. 184 (1999) 262.
[311] G. Seo, N.H. Kim, Y.H. Lee, J.H. Kim, Catal. Lett. 57 (1999)
209.
[312] A. Corma, V. Gonza
´lez-Alfaro, A.V. Orchille
´s, J. Catal. 200
(2001) 34.
[313] D. Eliche-Quesada, J. Me
´rida-Robles, P. Maireles-Torres, E.
Rodrı
´guez-Castello
´n, A. Jime
´nez-Lo
´pez, Langmuir 19 (2003)
4985.
[314] Y. Sun, L. Zhu, H. Lu, R. Wang, S. Lin, D. Jiang, F.-S. Xiao,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 237 (2002) 21.
42
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
[315] B. Chiche, E. Sauvage, F. Di Renzo, I.I. Ivanova, F. Fajula, J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 134 (1998) 145.
[316] X. Hu, M.L. Foo, G.K. Chuah, S. Jaenicke, J. Catal. 195 (2000)
412.
[317] E. Armengol, M.L. Cano, A. Corma, H. Garcia, M.T. Navarro,
J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. (1995) 519.
[318] N. He, S. Bao, Q. Xu, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 169 (1998)
29.
[319] M.J. Climent, A. Corma, S. Iborra, M.C. Navarro, J. Primo, J.
Catal. 161 (1996) 783.
[320] M.J. Climent, A. Corma, R. Guil-Lopez, S. Iborra, J. Primo, J.
Catal. 175 (1998) 70.
[321] M. Iwamoto, Y. Tanaka, N. Sawamura, S. Namba, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 13032.
[322] M. Onaka, N. Hashimoto, Y. Kitabata, R. Yamasaki, Appl.
Catal. A: Gen. 241 (2003) 307.
[323] T. Kugita, S.K. Jana, T. Owada, N. Hashimoto, M. Onaka, S.
Namba, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 245 (2003) 353.
[324] L.-X. Dai, K. Koyama, T. Tatsumi, Catal. Lett. 53 (1998) 211.
[325] A.L. Villade, P.E. Alarco
´n, C.M. de Correa, Chem. Commun.
(2002) 2654.
[326] H. Yoshida, K. Kimura, Y. Inaki, T. Hattori, Chem. Commun.
(1997) 129.
[327] Y. Inaki, H. Yoshida, K. Kimura, S. Inagaki, Y. Fukushima, T.
Hattori, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2 (2000) 5293.
[328] Y. Inaki, H. Yoshida, T. Yoshida, T. Hattori, J. Phys. Chem. B
106 (2002) 9098.
[329] A. Corma, S. Iborra, S. Miquel, J. Primo, J. Catal. 173 (1998)
315.
[330] S.C. Laha, P. Mukherjee, S.R. Sainkar, R. Kumar, J. Catal. 207
(2002) 213.
[331] D.R.C. Huybrechts, L. De Bruycher, P.A. Jacobs, Nature 345
(1990) 240.
[332] G. Bellusi, A. Carati, M.G. Clerici, G. Meddinelli, R. Millini, J.
Catal. 133 (1992) 220.
[333] S. Gontier, A. Tuel, Appl. Catal A: Gen. 118 (1994) 173.
[334] O. Franke, J. Rathousky, G. Schulz-Ekloﬀ, J. Starek, A. Zukal,
in: J. Weitkamp, H.G. Karge, H. Pfeifer, W. Ho
¨lderich (Eds.),
Zeolites and Related Microporous Materials: State of the Art
1994, Studies in Surface Science Catalysis, vol. 84, Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 1994, p. 77.
[335] I.W.C.E. Arends, R.A. Sheldon, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001)
175.
[336] L.J. Davies, P. McMorn, D. Bethell, P.C.B. Page, F. King, F.E.
Hancock, G.J. Hutchings, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 165 (2001)
243.
[337] T. Blasco, A. Corma, M.T. Navarro, J. Pe
´rez Pariente, J. Catal.
156 (1995) 65.
[338] V. Parvulescu, C. Constantin, B.L. Su, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.
202 (2003) 171.
[339] W.A. Carvalho, M. Wallau, U. Schuchardt, J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chem. 144 (1999) 91.
[340] A. Sakthivel, P. Selvam, J. Catal. 211 (2002) 134.
[341] E. Armengol, A. Corma, V. Forne
´s, H. Garcı
´a, J. Primo, Appl.
Catal. A: Gen. 181 (1999) 305.
[342] R.K. Rana, B. Viswanathan, Catal. Lett. 52 (1998) 25.
[343] L. Noren
˜ga-Franco, I. Hernandez-Perez, J. Aguilar-Oliego, A.
Maubert-Franco, Catal. Today 75 (2002) 189.
[344] V. Parvulescu, B.-L. Su, Catal. Today 69 (2001) 315.
[345] V. Parvulescu, C. Anastasescu, C. Constantin, B.L. Su, in: R.
Aiello, G. Giordano, F. Testa (Eds.), Impact of Zeolites and
Other Porous Materials on the New Technologies at the
Beginning of the New Millennium, Studies in Surface Science
and
Catalysis,
vol.
142,
Elsevier,
Amsterdam,
2002,
p.
1213.
[346] K. Lemke, H. Ehrick, U. Lohse, H. Berndt, K. Ja
¨hnisch, Appl.
Catal. A: Gen. 243 (2003) 41.
[347] J. Okamura, S. Nishiyama, S. Tsuruya, M. Masai, J. Mol. Catal.
A: Chem. 135 (1998) 133.
[348] A. Corma, M.T. Navarro, L. Nemeth, M. Renz, Chem.
Commun. (2001) 2190.
[349] T. Miyaji, P. Wu, T. Tatsumi, Catal. Today 71 (2001) 169.
[350] Y.A. Kalvachev, T. Hayashi, S. Tsubota, M. Haruta, in: R.K.
Grasselli, S.T. Oyama, A.M. Gaﬀney, J.E. Lyons (Eds.), Third
World Congress on Oxidation Catalysis, Studies in Surface
Science and Catalysis, vol. 110, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1997, p.
965.
[351] B.S. Uphade, Y. Yamada, T. Akita, T. Nakamura, M. Haruta,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 215 (2001) 137.
[352] B.S. Uphade, T. Akita, T. Nakamura, M. Haruta, J. Catal. 209
(2002) 331.
[353] A.K. Sinha, S. Seelan, T. Akita, S. Tsubota, M. Haruta, Catal.
Lett. 85 (2003) 223.
[354] P.P. Olivera, E.M. Patrito, H. Sellers, Surf. Sci. 313 (1994) 25.
[355] A.K. Sinha, S. Seelan, S. Tsubota, M. Haruta, Angew. Chem.
Int. Ed. 43 (2004) 1546.
[356] B. Solsona, T. Blasco, J.M. Lo
´pez Nieto, M.L. Pena, F. Rey, A.
Vidal-Moya, J. Catal. 203 (2001) 443.
[357] B. Sulikowski, Z. Olejniczak, E. Włoch, J. Rakoczy, R.X.
Valenzuela, V.C. Corbera
´n, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 232 (2002)
189.
[358] H. Berndt, A. Martin, A. Bru
¨ckner, E. Schreier, D. Mu
¨ller, H.
Kosslick, G.U. Wolf, B. Lu
¨cke, J. Catal. 191 (2000) 384.
[359] B. Lin, X. Wang, Q. Guo, W. Yang, Q. Zhang, Y. Wang,
Chem. Lett. 32 (2003) 860.
[360] L.-X. Dai, Y.H. Teng, K. Tabata, E. Suzuki, T. Tatsumi,
Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001) 573.
[361] X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, M.S. Wong, J.Y. Ying, J. Catal. 203 (2001)
18.
[362] A. Wingen, N. Anastasievic
´, A. Hollnagel, D. Werner, F.
Schu
¨th, J. Catal. 193 (2000) 248.
[363] A. Corma, A. Martinez, V. Marinez-Soria, J. Catal. 169 (1997)
480.
[364] K.M. Reddy, C. Song, Catal. Today 31 (1996) 137.
[365] M. Jacquin, D.J. Jones, J. Roziere, S. Albertazzi, A. Vaccari,
M. Lenarda, L. Storaro, R. Ganzerla, Appl. Catal. A: Gen.
251 (2003) 131.
[366] S. Coman, V.I. Parvulescu, B. Tesche, H. Bo
¨nnemann, J.F.
Roux, S. Kaliaguine, P.A. Jacobs, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 146
(1999) 247.
[367] S.N. Coman, V.I. Parvulescu, M. De Bruyn, D.E. De Vos, P.A.
Jacobs, J. Catal. 206 (2002) 218.
[368] C. Schu
¨th, S. Disser, F. Schu
¨th, M. Reinhard, Appl. Catal. B:
Environ. 28 (2000) 147.
[369] C.P. Mehnert, J.Y. Ying, Chem. Commun. (1997) 2215.
[370] C.P. Mehnert, D.W. Weaver, J.Y. Ying, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120
(1998) 12289.
[371] B.G. Johnson, C.H. Bartholomew, D.W. Goodman, J. Catal.
128 (1991) 231.
[372] E. Iglesia, S.L. Soled, R.A. Fiato, J. Catal. 137 (1992) 212.
[373] A.Y. Khodakov, A. Griboval-Constant, R. Bechara, V.L.
Zholobenko, J. Catal. 206 (2002) 230.
[374] J. Panpranot, J.G. Goodwin Jr., A. Sayari, Catal. Today 77
(2002) 269.
[375] J. Panpranot, J.G. Goodwin Jr., A. Sayari, J. Catal. 211 (2002)
530.
[376] J. Panpranot, J.G. Goodwin Jr., A. Sayari, J. Catal. 213 (2003)
78.
[377] A. Lewandowska, S. Monteverdi, M. Bettahar, M. Ziolek, J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 188 (2002) 85.
[378] M. Okumura, S. Tsubota, M. Iwamoto, M. Haruta, Chem. Lett.
(1998) 315.
[379] U. Junges, F. Schu
¨th, G. Schmid, Y. Uchida, R. Schlo
¨gl, Ber.
Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. 101 (1997) 1631.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
43
[380] A. Fukuoka, N. Higashimoto, Y. Sakamoto, M. Sasaki, N.
Sugimoto, S. Inagaki, Y. Fukushima, M. Ichikawa, Catal.
Today 66 (2001) 23.
[381] M. Sasaki, M. Osada, N. Higashimoto, T. Yamamoto, A.
Fukuoka, M. Ichikawa, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 141 (1999)
223.
[382] W.S. Ahn, K.I. Min, Y.M. Chung, H.-K. Rhee, S.H. Joo, R.
Ryoo, in: A. Galarneau, F. di Renzo, F. Fajula, J. Vedrine
(Eds.), Zeolites and Mesoporous Materials at the Dawn of the
21st Century, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, vol. 135,
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2001, p. 313.
[383] I. Yuranov, P. Moeckli, E. Suvorova, P. Buﬀat, L. Kiwi-
Minsker, A. Renken, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 192 (2003) 239.
[384] R. Burch, N. Cruise, D. Gleeson, S.C. Tsang, Chem. Commun.
(1996) 951.
[385] S. Kawi, S.Y. Liu, S.-C. Shen, Catal. Today 68 (2001) 237.
[386] Y. Liu, K. Murata, M. Inaba, N. Mimura, Catal. Commun. 4
(2003) 281.
[387] H.U. Wu
¨stefeld, Ph.D. Thesis, Ruhr-Universita
¨t Bochum, 2004.
[388] P. Piaggio, P. McMorn, C. Langham, D. Bethell, P.C. Bulman-
Page, F.E. Hancock, G.J. Hutchings, New J. Chem. (1998)
1167.
[389] S.-H. Lau, V. Caps, K.-W. Yeung, K.-Y. Yeung, K.-Y. Wong,
S.C. Tsang, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 32 (1999) 279.
[390] S. Ernst, M. Selle, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 27 (1999) 355.
[391] M.L. Kantam, T. Bandyopadhyay, A. Rahman, N.M. Reddy,
B.M. Choudary, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 133 (1998) 293.
[392] M.L. Kantam, A. Rahman, T. Bandyopadhyzy, Y. Haritha,
Synth. Commun. 29 (1999) 691.
[393] T. Joseph, S.S. Deshpande, S.B. Halligudi, A. Vinu, S. Ernst,
M. Harmann, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 206 (2003) 13.
[394] S.-G. Shyu, S.-W. Cheng, D.-L. Tzou, Chem. Commun. (1999)
2337.
[395] C.M. Crudden, D. Allen, M.D. Mikoluk, J. Sun, Chem.
Commun. (2001) 1154.
[396] A. Marteel, J.A. Davies, M.R. Mason, T. Tack, S. Bektesevic,
M.A. Abraham, Catal. Commun. 4 (2003) 309.
[397] C.E. Song, S.G. Lee, Chem. Rev. 102 (2002) 3495.
[398] J. Jamis, J.R. Anderson, R.S. Dickson, E.M. Campi, W.R.
Jackson, J. Organomet. Chem. 627 (2001) 37.
[399] C. Pe
´rez, S. Pe
´rez, G.A. Fuentes, A. Corma, J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chem. 197 (2003) 275.
[400] M.D. Jones, R. Raja, J.M. Thomas, B.F.G. Johnson, D.W.
Lewis, J. Rouzaud, K.D.M. Harris, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42
(2003) 4326.
[401] J.K. Park, S.-W. Kim, T. Hyeon, B.M. Kim, Tetrahedron:
Asymmetry 12 (2001) 2931.
[402] A. Corma, H. Garcı
´a, A. Moussaif, M.J. Sabater, R. Zniber, A.
Redouane, Chem. Commun. (2002) 1058.
[403] R.J. Clarke, I.J. Shannon, Chem. Commun. (2001) 1936.
[404] H. Kosslick, I. Mo
¨nnich, E. Paetzold, H. Fuhrmann, R. Fricke,
D. Mu
¨ller, G. Oehme, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45 (2001)
537.
[405] E. Paetzold, G. Oehme, H. Fuhrmann, M. Richter, R. Eckelt,
M.-M. Pohl, H. Kosslick, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 44–45
(2001) 517.
[406] K. Melis, D. De Vox, P. Jacobs, F. Verpoort, J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chem. 169 (2001) 47.
[407] M. Pillinger, I.S. Gonc
¸alves, A.D. Lopes, P. Ferreira, J. Rocha,
G. Zhang, M. Scha
¨fer, O. Nuyken, F.E. Ku
¨hn, Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 4 (2002) 696.
[408] R.R. Rao, B.M. Weckhuysen, R.A. Schoonheydt, Chem. Com-
mun. (1999) 445.
[409] B.M. Weckhuysen, R.R. Rao, J. Pelgrims, R.A. Schoonheydt,
P. Bodart, G. Debras, O. Collart, P. Van Der Voort, E.F.
Vansant, Chem. Eur. J. 6 (2000) 2960.
[410] J. Tudor, D. OHare, Chem. Commun. (1997) 603.
[411] S. OBrien, J. Tudor, T. Maschmeyer, D. OHare, Chem.
Commun. (1997) 1905.
[412] H. Rahiala, I. Beurroies, T. Eklund, K. Hakara, R. Gougeon,
P. Trens, J.B. Rosenholm, J. Catal. 188 (1999) 14.
[413] T. Sano, K. Doi, H. Hagimoto, Z. Wang, T. Uozumi, K. Soga,
Chem. Commun. (1999) 733.
[414] H. Schneider, G.T. Puchta, F.A.R. Kaul, G. Raudaschl-Sieber,
F. Lefebvre, G. Saggio, D. Mihalios, W.A. Herrmann, M.
Basset, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 170 (2001) 127.
[415] K. Kageyama, J. Tamazawa, T. Aida, Science 285 (1999) 2113.
[416] K. Tajima, G. Ogawa, T. Aida, J. Polym. Sci. A: Poly. Chem. 38
(2000) 4821.
[417] Z. Yang, Z. Niu, X. Cao, Z. Yang, Y. Lu, Z. Hu, C.C. Han,
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 (2003) 4201.
[418] R. Anwander, I. Nagl, C. Zapilko, M. Widenmeyer, Tetrahedron
59 (2003) 10567.
[419] A. Fischbach, M.G. Klimpel, M. Widenmeyer, E. Herdtweck,
W. Scherer, R. Anwander, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 43 (2004)
2234.
[420] X. Feng, G.E. Fryxell, L.Q. Wang, A.Y. Kim, J. Liu, K.M.
Kemmer, Science 276 (1997) 923.
[421] J. Brown, L. Mercier, T.J. Pinnavaia, Chem. Commun. (1999)
69.
[422] J. Weitkamp, M. Hunger, U. Rymsa, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 48 (2001) 255.
[423] I. Rodriguez, S. Iborra, A. Corma, F. Rey, J.L. Jorda, Chem.
Commun. (1999) 593.
[424] I. Rodriguez, G. Sastre, A. Corma, S. Iborra, J. Catal. 183
(1999) 14.
[425] A. Corma, S. Iborra, I. Rodrı
´guez, F. Sa
´nchez, J. Catal. 211
(2002) 208.
[426] S.T. Tavener, J.H. Clark, G.W. Gray, P.A. Heath, D.J.
Macquarrie, Chem. Commun. (1997) 1147.
[427] D.J. Macquarrie, S.J. Tavener, G.W. Gray, P.A. Heath, J.S.
Rafelt, S.I. Saulzet, J.J.E. Hardy, J.H. Clark, P. Sutra, D.
Brunel, F. di Renzo, F. Fajula, New. J. Chem. 23 (1999)
725.
[428] D. Brunel, F. Fajula, J.B. Nagy, B. Deroide, M.J. Verhoef, L.
Veum, J.A. Peters, H. van Bekkum, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 213
(2001) 73.
[429] M.P. Kapoor, A. Bhaumik, S. Inagaki, K. Kuraoka, T. Yazawa,
J. Mater. Chem. 12 (2002) 3078.
[430] M.J. MacLachlan, N. Coombs, G.A. Ozin, Nature 397 (1999)
681.
[431] P.N. Trikalitis, K.K. Rangan, T. Bakas, M.G. Kanatzidis,
Nature 410 (2001) 671.
[432] C. Serre, A. Auroux, A. Gervasini, M. Hervieu, G. Re
´rey,
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41 (2002) 1594.
[433] M. Onaka, T. Oikawa, Chem. Lett. (2002) 850.
[434] A. Bhaumik, S. Inagaki, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123 (2001)
691.
[435] S. Velu, M.P. Kapoor, S. Inagaki, K. Suzuki, Appl. Catal. A:
Gen. 245 (2003) 317.
[436] V.F. Stone Jr., R.J. Davis, Chem. Mater. 10 (1998) 1468.
[437] Y. Takahara, J.N. Kondo, T. Takata, D. Lu, K. Domen, Chem.
Mater. 13 (2001) 1194.
[438] M. Uchida, J.N. Kondo, D. Lu, K. Domen, Chem. Lett. (2002)
498.
[439] M. Vettraino, X. He, M. Trudeau, J.E. Drake, D.M. Antonelli,
Adv. Func. Mater. 12 (2002) 174.
[440] M. Vettraino, M. Trudeau, A.Y.H. Lo, R.W. Schurko, D.
Antonelli, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 (2002) 9567.
[441] D. Farrusseng, K. Schlichte, B. Spliethoﬀ, A. Wingen, S. Kaskel,
J.S. Bradley, F. Schu
¨th, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40 (2001)
4204.
[442] S. Yoon, J. Lee, T. Hyeon, S.M. Oh, J. Electrochem. Soc. 147
(2000) 2507.
44
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
[443] H. Zhou, S. Zhu, M. Hibino, I. Honma, J. Power, Source 122
(2003) 219.
[444] H. Zhou, S. Zhu, M. Hibino, I. Honma, M. Ichihara, Adv.
Mater. 15 (2003) 2107.
[445] M. Choi, R. Ryoo, Nature Mater. 2 (2003) 473.
[446] A. Lu, W. Schmidt, N. Matoussevitch, B. Spliethoﬀ, B. Tesche,
E. Bill, W. Kiefer, F. Schu
¨th, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 43 (2004)
4303.
[447] M. Iwamoto, H. Kitagawa, Y. Watanabe, Chem. Lett. (2002)
814.
A. Taguchi, F. Schu
¨th / Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 77 (2005) 1–45
45
