I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Applied Catalysis, 30 (1987) 69-80 Elsevier Science Publishers B.V., Amsterdam - Printed in The Netherlands 69 HYDROCARBON ADSORPTION AND COKE FORMATION ON Pt/Al203 AND Pt-Sri/Al203 CATALYSTS Heiner LIESKE', Antal SARKANY' and Joachim V6LTER' 1 Zentralinstitut fllr physikalische Chemie, Akademie der Wissenschaften der DDR, Rudower Chausee 5, DDR-1199 Berlin, DDR. 2 Institute of Isotopes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-1525 Budapest,
P.O. Box 77, Hungary.
(Received 15 April 1985, accepted 9 October 1986)
ABSTRACT
The irreversible adsorption and coke formation from methane, n-hexane, I-hexene and 1,5-hexadiene were investigated on Pt/A1203 and Pt-Sri/Al203 between 25 and
450C. Depending on temperature,
chemisorption,coke precursor and coke formation have been observed. Coke precursors are formed on Pt sites and transferred to alumina. Two routes of coking were observed. Presence of tin decreases the adsorption bond strength of I-hexene and at low concentrations increases the amount chemisorbed.
This phenomenon is explained by the ensemble effect. A drain- off effect is proposed to explain the decrease of the coke coverage on the metallic sites upon addition of Sn.
INTRODUCTION
The adsorption of hydrocarbons on Pt is a necessary first step in hydrocarbon conversions,i.e., in the reforming process, but the adsorbed species are only partly transformed into aromatics and isomers. A small part is more or less completely dehydrogenated and forms a carbonaceous overlayer on the catalyst,causing severe deactivation,which is the main draw-back of the Pt/A1203 reforming catalyst [I]. Nevertheless a small amount of carbon is a necessary component of a selective reforming catalyst [2-41. The pure, more or less reversible adsorption under mild conditions,i.e., at low temperatures,has been widely studied,especially on single crystal surfaces [5-81, rather less on supported catalysts [9]. Coking, too, has been studied extensively [1,4,10-121.Our aim was to bridge the gap between investigations of adsorption and of coke formation, and to find the differences between supported Pt and Pt-Sn cata- lysts. Using methane, n-hexane, I-hexene and 1,5-hexadiene as hydrocarbons,we examined the role of Pt and of the supporting alumina and the specific role of added tin in the whole temperature range between room temperature and 450C.Tin additions are known to cause profound improvements in the catalytic properties of Pt/Al,O, reforming catalysts [13]. 0166-9834/87/$03.50 0 1987 Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. 70
EXPERIMENTAL
Catalysts 1 wt% Pt/A1203 and xPt-ySn/Al203 (x = 1 wt%; y = 0.15, 0.6, 1.2 wt%) samples were prepared by impregnating y-Al203 (Degussa C) respectively with solutions of H,PtC16 and SnCl2 in diluted hydrochloric acid, followed by drying at 120C and
L
calcination at 500C. The metal free alumina sample was pretreated in the same way using only diluted hydrochloric acid. The Pt-Sn/A1203 catalysts were pre- pared consecutively in the sequence: impregnation with SnC12, calcination at 5OO"C, impregnation with H2PtC16. Pt dispersions of the catalysts are given under "Methods".
Methods The dispersion, H/Pt, or the number of Pt surface atoms (Pt,) of the CatalYStS was measured by H2 adsorption at 0C using a pulse technique. With the 1 Pt./A1203 catalyst a H/Pt ratio of 0.97 was found; the dispersion of the IPt-ySn-Al203 samples was assumed to be the same [14]. H2 adsorption is not suitable to determine the dispersion of Pt-Sri/Al203 catalysts [15]. TEM experiinents indicate an increased Pt dispersion following tin addition [16]; in the present case,maximum dispersion is already obtained with the tin free catalyst. The H2 adsorption capacity of the samples, which gives some information about the number of unperturbed Pt sites, has been presented earlier [17]. Moreover the hydrogen adsorption on coked samples has been taken as a measure of the "free" (i.e.,uncovered by coke) Pt surface area, Ptfs.
The irreversible adsorption of hydrocarbons and the formation of carbonaceous deposits were determined by means of a Sartorius microbalance (Typ 4102),connected to a vacuum (%I0 -6 Torr) and gas handling system. The catalyst samples (0.2 g) were calcined in an O2 flow reduced in an H2 flow and evacuated. All steps took place in situ at 450C and for 15 min.
In order to measure the irreversible adsorption,the sample was exposed to 10 Torr of the hydrocarbon for a given time, followed by evacuation at the adsorption temperature until a constant weight of the sample was reached. The formation of coke and coke precursor was continuously monitored in the presence of 15 Torr of the respective hydrocarbon.
RESULTS
Adsorption on Al223 The irreversible adsorption of several hydrocarbons was determined between 25 and 300C. The results of the adsorption on alumina can be seen in Figure 1.
The paraffins methane (M) and n-hexane (n-H) are not adsorbed across the whole temperature range. The olefines I-hexene (I-H=)and 1,5-hexadiene (1,5-HD==) are adsorbed. Increasing the temperature decreases the adsorption.
Tin addition also decreases the adsorption,(I-H=/Sn). The amounts adsorbed increase dramatically 71
I,
M,n-H 7 lil0 260 3bo adsorption temperature,
"C
0.6
L
.= 0.1 0
1.5
-HD ==
100 200 300 adsorption temperature,
OC
FIGURE 1
Irreversible adsorption on P-t-free alumina as a function of adsorption temperature; M, n-H, l-H=, 1.5-HO==: methane, n-hexane, I-hexene, 1.5-hexadiene on tin-free alumina: l-H=/%: I-hexene on alumina impregnated with 1.2 wt% Sn.
FIGURE 2 Temperature dependence of irreversible adsorption on 1Pt/A1203; M:methane, n-H: n-hexane, l-H=: I-hexene, 1,5-HD==: 1,5-hexadiene. in the sequence alkane < alkene < alkadiene. For polyenes the assumption of still higher values seems justified. The adsorption on the support is low in comparison with the Pt loaded samples. The adsorption data in Figures 2, 3 and 4 for the supported Pt and Pt-Sn samples are corrected for the adsorption on the support.Adsorption on Pt/A12g3 In Figure 2, the irreversible adsorption on 1Pt/A1203 is plotted as molecules of hydrocarbon per Pt surface atom (HC/Pt).On this Pt containing sample, not only the olefines but also the alkanes,methane and n-hexane, are adsorbed. The adsorption increases in the same sequence as on alumina M < n-H < 2-H= < 1,5-HO==. Contrary to the adsorption on the support,the adsorption on Pt/A1203 increases with increasing temperature,especially between 200 and 300C.
L
73
TABLE 1
Steady state adsorption of n-hexane on lPt/A1203 at 200 and 300C and the removability of the deposit.
Adsorption Steady ads. rate
/"C
/us nWgcat min Deposit removable 200 23 300 118 in vacuum: completely in vacuum: IO-20% in vacuum: after H2 treatment at 480C: 97% Adsorption on Pt-Sn/A12g3 Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the adsorption of I-hexene on lPt/A1203 and on Pt-Sn/A1203 samples and for comparison that of n-hexane on Pt-Sn/A1203.
The I-hexene adsorption is influenced by tin in the following way: i) at room temperature the adsorption is increased. ii) towards higher temperatures up to about 200C the adsorption decreases, whereas on the Pt sample the adsorption increases. Above 200C an increase of adsorption starts due to the onset of coking. This will be discussed later. The tin effect depends on the amount of tin.
This is explicitly shown in Figure 4 for the room temperature adsorption.
The I-hexene adsorption is increased by the addition of small amounts of tin. Larger amounts of tin have an inhibiting effect; the adsorption decreases after passing a maximum. Analogous dependencies were observed at 100, 200 and 300C.
In Figure 4, the adsorption of n-hexane on a Pt-Sn sample is shown. The effect of tin is small.
Coke formation At 450C "coke" formation was observed from all hydrocarbons investigated and with all catalysts. The term "coke" denominates carbonaceous deposits which are not volatile in vacuum after hydrogen treatment at 480C. As shown in Table 1 coke precursors could be removed by evacuation at elevated temperatures.
The qualitative difference between these two types of deposits has additionally been confirmed by TPO [17].
In Figure 5 curve a, an example of the progress of the coke formation from I-hexene on 1Pt/A1203 followed by thermobalance,can be seen. The process starts very rapidly. Later on the weight of the samples increases nearly linearly, without a distinct tendency to saturation [17]. This "steady state" is stable for at least a few hours. Curve b demonstrates the development of the Pt surface area during the coking process. This "free" (i.e., remaining uncovered by coke) Pt surface area is denoted as Ptfs. Hydrogen adsorption,determined after coke 74
0.75
1.5
2.25
3.0
coking time ,h FIGURE 5 Coke amount (a) and "free" Pt surface area, Ptfs (b), as a function of coking time. Conditions:15 Torr I-hexene over lPt/A1203 at 450C.
TABLE 2
Coke formation on Pts Pt/A1203(pt
= H
=
0.97) from methane and 1-hexene at
total Pt
450C.
Hydro- carbon Coke amount Free Pt-surface (after 135 area after min) coking atoms C/Pt,(Ptfs) H/Pt Steady state coking rate atoms C atoms C Ptfs . h Pts . h methane 5
0.66
2.1
1.4
I-hexene 40
0.10
87 9 deposition,has been taken as a measure of Ptfs (curve b). The curve declines steeply in the initial phase of coke formation,indicating a strong decrease of Ptfs; during the steady state period of coke formation H/Pt does not change,indicating a constant Ptfs in the steady state. With oxygen adsorption an analo- gous curve was observed.
The decrease of H/Pt is not due to sintering. Additional experiments showed that mild oxidation at 4OO"C, below the range of Pt redispersion (55O"C), restores the original Ptfs.
Experiments on deposit formation show that each steady state is stable only at the actual temperature.
At a higher temperature a new steady state with higher coking rate is established;returning to the original temperature,a lower coking rate than formally existed is found. At the higher temperature further Pt regions are blocked by coke because of faster coke production and therefore when returning to the original temperature,less coke is formed.
FIGURE 6 Steady state rate of coke formation from different hydrocarbons on the support, on 1Pt/A1203 and on IPt-1.2Sn/A1203.
In Table 2 coke formation on 1Pt/A1203 from methane and I-hexane is compared.
Only small amounts of coke are formed from methane, the steady state rate is low and coke only covers a small part of the original Pt surface area. With I-hexene the amount of coke and the steady state rate exceed the values observed with methane by about one order of magnitude.
Coke covers the main part of the original Pt surface area. Figure 6 shows the influence of tin on the coking of different hydrocarbons.
More detailed information is given in [17]. It can be seen that i) addition of tin suppresses coke formation from methane (slightly at low Sn concentrations and almost completely with 1.2 wt% Sn), ii) addition of tin strongly enhances coke formation from the C6 hydrocarbons,iii) coking increases considerably in the sequence M < n-H < 2-H= < 1.5 HO==, iv) on the Pt-free support only negligible amounts of coke are formed. The influence of tin on the blocking of the Pt surface area by coke deposits is shown in Figure 7. The coke covered Pt surface area (%) was calculated by 100 x (I-Ptfs). The presence of Sn greatly reduces the coke coverage of the Pt sites. This is apparently not due to lowered coke production. The total amount of coke is nearly the same on 1Pt/A1203 as on IPt-0.15Sn/A1203.
DISCUSSION
Adsorptionon It is generally accepted that, on Pt, hydrocarbons are adsorbed up to 150C without C-C bond splitting [S]. In this low temperature range the alkanes, methane and n-hexane, are adsorbed on Pt/A1203, whereas no adsorption takes place on the 76 FIGURE 7 Produced coke (black) and coke-covered Pt surface area (white) on lPt/A1203 and IPt-O.l5Sn/A1203;coking conditions:15 Torr methane, 456"C, 2.25 h. alumina (Figures 1 and 2). This proves the adsorption on the metal surface.
Surprisingly;about twice the number of larger n-hexane mOleCUleS is adsorbed at 100C per Pt jite compared with the small methane molecules and the number of adsorbed I-hexene molecules is still higher. Knowing that olefins can be adsorbed on pure alumina, the following explanation is given: n-hexane is adsorbed on the Pt and there it is at least partially dehydrogenated;the olefins thus formed are transferred by spillover to the alumina where additional adsorption sites are available. This mechanism is in accordance with the preferred adsorption of I-hexene and 1,5-hexadiene.
This transfer process can be considered as the first step towards the formation of carbonaceous deposits on alumina. On the other hand methane is not likely to be transformed into an olefin and must remain on the Pt sites. This restriction could cause the observed low HC/PtS value.
In the higher temperature range between 200 and 300C adsorption is characteri- sed by: i) a continuous formation of deposits with lasting exposition to hydro- carbon, ii) a decreasing volatility of the deposits with increasing adsorption temperature.-These observations can tentatively be explained by the formation of oligomers:the polymers might flow continuously from Pt sites to the support or they are built up from alkenes (alkadienes,etc.,) on the acidic sites.
Adsorption on Pt-Sn/A12CJ3 A small amount of added tin significantly modifies the adsorption properties of Pt towards I-hexene. At room temperature the adsorption is increased. With increasing temperature the adsorption passes through a minimum in contrast to a steady increase on the tin free Pt/A1203. This behaviour can be explained by an ensemble effect of Pt-Sn clusters [I43 and a model of flat and tilted adsorption configurations might be proposed [20]. The rupture of C-H bonds on adjacent Pt sites in Pt/A1203 might cause chemisorbed I-hexene to be attached to the surface by several carbon atoms. As a result of this strong interaction the adsorbed hydrocarbon is essentially in a "flat" position. The row of contiguous Pt sites 17 is interrupted by tin atoms in the bimetallic clusters so that only a part of the chemisorbed molecule might be fixed to the surface sites, which might result in a "tilted or perpendicular" position of the adsorbed molecule.
Investigations with butenes on Pt(ll1) surfaces have indicated both butylidin, and flat chemi- sorption forms [ZO].
The smaller ensemble size of Pt atoms in Pt-Sn catalysts and the change of the adsorption configuration,explain why tin increases the adsorption capacity of I-hexene (Figure 4). The bonding 1-hexene should be stronger on large Pt ensembles. The weaker adsorption on Pt-Sn/Al203 could explain why the adsorption of l-hexene decreases in the temperature range between room temperature and
IW'C
(Figure 3), whereas with Pt/A1203 an increase was observed (Figures 2 and 3).
This model is supported by additional i-r. investigations of adsorbed I-hexene [18]. The bands of the CH-stretching region are more intense with Pt.-W/A1203 than with Pt/A1203. This is in accordance with the proposed additional dehydro- genation and formation of a strongly bonded species on Pt/A1203.
The specific tin effect was hardly seen in the n-hexane adsorption (Figure 4).
In contrast to 1-hexene, n-hexane should only be adsorbed dissociatively.
It could be that with n-hexane only one C-atom of the molecule is involved in the adsorption bond. In this case the ensemble effect of tin should not essentially influence the n-hexane adsorption,as has been observed.
Transfer of coke precursors It is well known that coke can be formed on active metals C201 as well as on acidic oxides [Zl]. In the present case Pt is the active metal and the HCl treated alumina is an acidic oxide, both of them being capable of coking; the results shown in Figure 6 indicate that, under the present conditions,coke formation remains negligible only on alumina. Moreover the observed increased coking by tin cannot be due to an increased acidity of the alumina as the chlorine content of the samples increased only slightly from 1.3 wt% to 1.4 wt% by adding
1.2 wt% tin. According to recent results chlorine has an inhibiting effect on
coke formation [ZZ]. It should also be noted that adsorption of NH3 on Pt/A1203 and Pt-Sri/A1203 indicated no significant differences in acidity [23]. Consequently coking will be discussed primarily as a function of the metal and not of alumina.
This is in accordance with recent findings that coking of the metal function controls the deactivation [24].
The observed deposit formation with l-hexene displays two characteristic results: i) the coking takes place at a constant rate, i.e., a steady state is reached, ii) during the steady state the free Pt surface area remains constant.
The conclusion from these observations is that all the coke, or perhaps its precursor being formed on the free Pt sites, should be transferred to regions already covered by coke or to free support areas.
In order to interpret coking and the development of a steady state, a connectior 78 between coke formation and coke transport has to be considered. In the first moment of contact with the hydrocarbon, carbonaceous deposits are formed very rapidly on the Pt sites. More deposit is formed than can be transported away,i.e., a substantial part of the Pt becomes covered by coke. After this first period the "surviving" Pt sites produce coke with a lower but constant rate.
Now all the precursors are immediately transferred from Pt to acidic sites of the alumina, where the final coke formation takes place. This is in accordance with the conclusions of Barbier et al. [25,26] that the carbon coverage of the metal remains constant while coke is deposited on the support.
The transfer of coke precursors is obviously influenced by tin. As shown in Figure 7, the coke coverage of Pt in the bimetallic sample is distinctly less than the coverage in the monometallic one although the total amount of produced coke is nearly the same on both catalysts. A larger free Pt surface has also been observed with a number of the second metals [28]. Moreover it is known that tin promotes the activity and especially the stability of Pt/A1 203 reforming catalysts although coke production is not reduced [13]. Both tin effects, the less coke on Pt surface and the increased stability against coking, can be explained by a proposed drain-off mechanism. It is suggested that the coke pre- cursors, polymer olefinic and aromatic species, are adsorbed less strongly on the tin containing samples due to an ensemble effect of tin. Consequently they are more mobile and can more easily migrate to the alumina where they are finally deposited as coke. This drain-off effect guarantees that a larger portion of active Pt sites will remain free from blocking coke precursors and provides higher activity for the bimetallic samples.
Coking routes According to the results in the previous section, little coke is formed from methane but large amounts from C 6 hydrocarbons. Tin inhibits or blocks coke formation from methane, but enhances coke formation from C 6 olefines. Therefore,coke formation from methane and from C 6 olefines represent two different types of mechanism.
C
1 route: Coke formation from methane is a slow process.
Although the amount of coke in the steady state would be sufficient to cover each Pt atom by several C atoms (see Table 2) only a small part of Pt is actually covered.
Therefore it is the formation of coke on Pt that is slow and transport is not a limiting step. The formation of isolated C atoms from adsorbed ethane and their mobility on the Pt surface has recently been observed by NMR [27]. The relatively high reaction order with respect to ethane (0.83) [17] is another factor.
The mechanism of the C 1 route should involve a combination of C 1 species formed during adsorption on Pt into graphite-like structures. This combination seems to be inhibited by an ensemble effect of tin. Tin may block Pt ensembles necessary for the combination of C 1 species into large structures or, as is more likely,the deep dehydrogenation of the C 1 species is hindered by tin. 80 6 7 8 9
1:
12 17 18 $4" 25 26 27 28 29
E.L. Mutterties,
in "Reactivity of Metal-Metal Bonds", M.H. Chisholm (editor), ACS Symposium Series No.'155, p. 273 (1981).
A. Gavezotti, M. Simonetta, M.A. van Hove and G.A. Somorjai, Surface Sci.,
122 (1982) 192.
R.J. Koestner, M.A. van Hove and G.A. Somorjai, Chemtech.,
13 (1983) 376.
A. Palazov, J. Catal., 30 (1975) 13.
S.M. Davis, F. Zaera and G.A. Somorjai, J. Catal., 77 (1982) 439.
L.W. Jossens
and E.E. Petersen, J. Catal., 73 (1982) 377.
J. Margitfalvi,
5. Gtlbdltis
and M. Hegedlls, in "Mechanism katalizu", Vol. p. 112, Nauka, Moscow, 1984. 1,
J. VL17ter, 6. Lietz, M. Uhlemann and M. Hermann, J. Catal., 68 (1981) 42
H. Lieske and J. Vtllter, J. Catal., 90 (1984) 96.
_ ,.___.
J. Vblter, H. Lieske and G. Lietz, React. Kinet. Catal. Lett., lb (IY8ll 87.
F.G. Gault, 0. Zahraa, J.M. Datiques, G. Maire, M. Peyrot, J.E. Weisang and
P.A. Enselhardt,
Proc. 7th Int. Cow-.
Catal., Tokyo 1980, Elsevier, Amsterdam,1981, Part A, pi 199.
A. Sarkany, H. Lieske, T. Szilagyi and L. Toth, Proc. 8th International
Congr. Catal., West Berlin, 1984, 01.2, p. 613.
A. Palazov, Ch. Bonev, D. Shopov, G. Lietz, A. Sarkany and J. Volter, J. Catal.,
accepted.
Z. Paal, Adv. Catal., 29 (1980) 273.
N.R. Avery and N. Sheppard, Surf. Sci., 169 (1986) L367.
Il.
Eisenbach and E. Gallei, J. Catal., 56 (1979) 377.
R.J. Verderone. C.L. Pieck. M.R. Sad and J.M. Parera. Awl.
Cata .
239.
., 21 (1986)
W. Walkov and J. Vtllter, unpublished
results.
V.K. Shum, J.B. Butt and W.M.H. Sachtler, Appl. Catal., 11 (1984
J! Barbier, G. Corro and Y. Zhang, Appl. Catal., 13 (1985) 245.
151.
J. Barbier, E. Churing, J.M. Parera and J. Riviere, React. Kinet. Catal. Lett.,
29 (1985) 323.
P.K. Wan ,
4
J.P. Ansermet, C.P. Slichter and J.H. Sinfelt, Phys. Rev. Lett.,
55 (1985
2731.
N.R. Bursian, B.B. Zharkov, S.B. Kogan, G.A. Lastovkin
and M.M. Potkletnova, Proc. 8th International Congr. Catal., West Berlin, 1984, 01.2, p.481.
Z. Paal and P. TBtCnyi, J. Catal., 30 (1973) 350.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 