<quotes>

[1] "The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C)."
[2] "With (Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H, ethane was transformed at room temperature into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane."
[3] "Higher and lower homologs were obtained from propane,butane, and pentane as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane."
[4] "The mechanism of the step leading to carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane."
[5] "When [Ta],-H was contacted at room temperature with a cyclic alkane (4, 13),no catalytic reaction occurred."
[6] "When pa],-H was contacted with an acyclic alkane, a catalytic metathesis reaction occurred at moderate temperature (25" to 200C), leading to the formation of the higher and lower homologs (Table 1)."
[7] "The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane. which has onlv one C 4 bond and consequently does not present any problem of selectivity."
[8] "When higher linear alkanes were used,several higher and lower homologs were pro- duced, because various G H and C-C bonds can be involved."
[9] "Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also underwent the metathesis reac- tion; however, neopentane only led to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tanta- lum-neopentyl species and did not react fur- ther, probably for steric reasons."
[10] "During the metathesis reaction, infrared spectroscopy showed that the tantalum hy- dride disappeared and was transformed into a tantalum-alkvl intermediate."
[11] "The mechanism of the reaction (15) (Scheme I), we assume that in a first steo. a C-H bond of acvclic alkane (for ex- & , example, ethane) is cleaved by a a-bond met- athesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum- alkyl (for example, ethyl) species;"
[12] "The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the for- mation of C-C bonds."
[13] "A a-bond metathesis mechanism, which we ore- fer because of the highly electrophilic charac- ter of the silica-supported tantalum-alkyl spe- cies, would involve a four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle (Scheme 2)."
[14] "Such a mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes."
[15] "The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n- butane and isobutane as well as the forma- tion of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane."
[16] "The metathesis of isobutane is particu- larly interesting with respect to the product distribution."
[17] "We can expect that the formation of the tantalum-tert- butyl species can be disfavored (relative to that of the other possible tantalum-isobutyl complex) for steric reasons; despite this, the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum- tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Silica-supported transition metal hydrides, such as (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten), catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane is transformed into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are obtained from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to the formation of higher and lower homologs. The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane, which has only one C-C bond and does not present any problem of selectivity. Higher linear alkanes produce several higher and lower homologs due to the involvement of various C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also undergo metathesis reactions, but neopentane only leads to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tantalum-neopentyl species and does not react further, probably due to steric reasons. During the metathesis reaction, the tantalum hydride disappears and is transformed into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. The mechanism involves the cleavage of a C-H bond of an acyclic alkane, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species. The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group, implying the cleavage and formation of C-C bonds. A four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle is involved in the mechanism. This mechanism also operates in the case of higher alkanes. The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n-butane and isobutane, as well as the formation of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn yields ethane. The metathesis of isobutane is particularly interesting with respect to the product distribution. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species can be disfavored due to steric reasons, but the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅支撑过渡金属氢化物，如(23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H和(Si-0-),M-H(M，铬或钨)，在适中温度下催化线性或支链烷烃的下一级和上一级烷烃的转位反应。在室温下，乙烷被转化为丙烷和甲烷的等摩尔混合物。从丙烷、丁烷、戊烷、异丁烷和异戊烷中获得更高和更低的同系物。机制可能涉及钽-烷基中间体和第二分子烷烃的碳-碳a-键之间的四中心过渡态。环烷烃不发生催化反应，而无环烷烃则发生催化转位反应，导致更高和更低的同系物的形成。最简单的情况是乙烷的转位，它只有一个C-C键，因此不存在选择性问题。使用更高线性烷烃时，由于各种C-H和C-C键的参与，产生几种更高和更低的同系物。如异丁烷或甲基丁烷等支链烷烃也发生转位反应，但新戊烷仅导致表面钽-新戊基物种的等摩尔形成，不再进一步反应，可能由于立体原因。在转位反应过程中，钽氢化物消失并转化为钽-烷基中间体。机制涉及无环烷烃的C-H键的裂解，产生氢气和钽-烷基物种。下一步涉及甲基的转移，意味着C-C键的裂解和形成。机制涉及金属环中间体中sp3碳的存在。这种机制也适用于更高烷烃。从第二丙烷分子向丙基中间体转移甲基，使n-丁烷和异丁烷的产生成为可能，同时形成钽-乙基复合物，反过来产生乙烷。异丁烷的转位反应在产物分布方面特别有趣。由于立体原因，钽-叔丁基物种的形成可能被不利，但由钽-叔丁基上的甲基转移步骤产生的新戊烷以大量形式产生。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
