<quotes>

[1] "The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C)."
[2] "With (Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H, ethane was transformed at room temperature into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane."
[3] "Higher and lower homologs were obtained from propane,butane, and pentane as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane."
[4] "The mechanism of the step leading to carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane."
[5] "When [Ta],-H was contacted at room temperature with a cyclic alkane (4, 13),no catalytic reaction occurred."
[6] "When pa],-H was contacted with an acyclic alkane, a catalytic metathesis reaction occurred at moderate temperature (25" to 200C), leading to the formation of the higher and lower homologs (Table 1)."
[7] "The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane. which has onlv one C 4 bond and consequently does not present any problem of selectivity."
[8] "When higher linear alkanes were used,several higher and lower homologs were pro- duced, because various G H and C-C bonds can be involved."
[9] "Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also underwent the metathesis reac- tion; however, neopentane only led to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tanta- lum-neopentyl species and did not react fur- ther, probably for steric reasons."
[10] "During the metathesis reaction, infrared spectroscopy showed that the tantalum hy- dride disappeared and was transformed into a tantalum-alkvl intermediate."
[11] "The mechanism of the reaction (15) (Scheme I), we assume that in a first steo. a C-H bond of acvclic alkane (for ex- & , example, ethane) is cleaved by a a-bond met- athesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum- alkyl (for example, ethyl) species;"
[12] "The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the for- mation of C-C bonds."
[13] "A a-bond metathesis mechanism, which we ore- fer because of the highly electrophilic charac- ter of the silica-supported tantalum-alkyl spe- cies, would involve a four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle (Scheme 2)."
[14] "Such a mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes."
[15] "The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n- butane and isobutane as well as the forma- tion of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane."
[16] "The metathesis of isobutane is particu- larly interesting with respect to the product distribution."
[17] "We can expect that the formation of the tantalum-tert- butyl species can be disfavored (relative to that of the other possible tantalum-isobutyl complex) for steric reasons; despite this, the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum- tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane is transformed into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are obtained from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do at moderate temperatures. The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane, which has only one C-C bond and does not present any problem of selectivity. Higher linear alkanes produce several higher and lower homologs because various C-H and C-C bonds can be involved. Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also undergo the metathesis reaction, but neopentane only leads to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tantalum-neopentyl species and does not react further, probably for steric reasons. During the metathesis reaction, the tantalum hydride disappears and is transformed into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. The mechanism involves the cleavage of a C-H bond of an acyclic alkane by a a-bond metathesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species. The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group, which implies the cleavage and formation of C-C bonds. A a-bond metathesis mechanism is preferred due to the highly electrophilic character of the silica-supported tantalum-alkyl species, involving a four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle. This mechanism also operates in the case of higher alkanes. The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n-butane and isobutane as well as the formation of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane. The metathesis of isobutane is particularly interesting with respect to the product distribution. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species can be disfavored for steric reasons, but the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅胶支持的钽氢化物在中等温度下催化线性或支链烷烃的转位反应，生成相邻的高和低烷烃。乙烷在室温下转化为丙烷和甲烷的等摩尔混合物。从丙烷、丁烷和戊烷以及异丁烷和异戊烷等支链烷烃中获得高和低的同系物。机制涉及钽-烷基中间体和第二分子烷烃的碳-碳a-键之间的四中心过渡态。环烷烃不发生催化反应，而无环烷烃在中等温度下发生催化转位反应。最简单的情况是乙烷的转位，它只有一个C-C键，因此不存在选择性问题。使用高线性烷烃时，由于各种C-H和C-C键的参与，产生几种高和低的同系物。异丁烷或甲基丁烷等支链烷烃也发生转位反应，但新戊烷仅导致表面钽-新戊基物种的等摩尔形成，不再进一步反应，可能是因为立体原因。在转位反应期间，钽氢化物消失并转化为钽-烷基中间体。机制涉及无环烷烃的C-H键通过a-键转位断裂，产生氢气和钽-烷基（如乙基）物种。下一步涉及甲基的转移，必然意味着C-C键的断裂和形成。由于硅胶支持的钽-烷基物种的高亲电性，a-键转位机制是首选的，涉及一个四中心过渡态，其中在金属环中间存在一个sp3碳。这种机制也适用于高烷烃。从第二个丙烷分子向这些丙基中间体转移一个甲基，使n-丁烷和异丁烷的产生以及钽-乙基复合物的形成成为可能，反过来，这将产生乙烷。异丁烷的转位在产物分布方面特别有趣。由于立体原因，钽-叔丁基物种的形成可能被不利，但由钽-叔丁基上的甲基转移步骤产生的新戊烷以相当大的量产生。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
