<quotes>

[1] "The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C)."
[2] "With (Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H, ethane was transformed at room temperature into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane."
[3] "Higher and lower homologs were obtained from propane,butane, and pentane as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane."
[4] "The mechanism of the step leading to carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane."
[5] "When [Ta],-H was contacted at room temperature with a cyclic alkane (4, 13),no catalytic reaction occurred."
[6] "When pa],-H was contacted with an acyclic alkane, a catalytic metathesis reaction occurred at moderate temperature (25" to 200C), leading to the formation of the higher and lower homologs (Table 1)."
[7] "The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane. which has onlv one C 4 bond and consequently does not present any problem of selectivity."
[8] "When higher linear alkanes were used,several higher and lower homologs were pro- duced, because various G H and C-C bonds can be involved."
[9] "Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also underwent the metathesis reac- tion; however, neopentane only led to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tanta- lum-neopentyl species and did not react fur- ther, probably for steric reasons."
[10] "During the metathesis reaction, infrared spectroscopy showed that the tantalum hy- dride disappeared and was transformed into a tantalum-alkvl intermediate."
[11] "In the case of ethane, this step of C-C bond formation and cleavage enables the liberation of pro- pane and the formation of a tantalum- methyl surface complex."
[12] "The last step in the catalytic cycle must liberate methane and regenerate the active species, the tan- talum-ethyl surface complex; a new four- centered transition state is assumed in which a hydrogen is transferred from an ethane molecule to the methyl ligand (Scheme 1)."
[13] "Regarding the mechanism of the reaction (15) (Scheme I), we assume that in a first steo. a C-H bond of acvclic alkane (for ex- & , example, ethane) is cleaved by a a-bond met- athesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum- alkyl (for example, ethyl) species; this ele- mentary step is indeed observed during the C-H bond activation of cycloalkanes on the [Ta],-H species, yielding the corresponding tantalum-cycloalkyl surface complexes (Eq. I), and occurs without modification of the oxidation state of the metal (4)."
[14] "The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the for- mation of C-C bonds."
[15] "Such a mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes. For example, the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane is determined in the first step of C-H bond activation, which yields two spe- cies, tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-iso- propyl surface complexes (Scheme 3)."
[16] "The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n- butane and isobutane as well as the forma- tion of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane."
[17] "The metathesis of isobutane is particu- larly interesting with respect to the product distribution. In agreement with the pro- posed mechanism, the C-H bond activa- tion step can produce two tantalum-alkyl intermediates (Scheme 4)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The silica-supported transition metal hydrides catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane is transformed into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are obtained from propane, butane, and pentane as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane. When contacted with a cyclic alkane, no catalytic reaction occurs, but when contacted with an acyclic alkane, a catalytic metathesis reaction occurs at moderate temperatures, leading to the formation of the higher and lower homologs. The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane, which has only one C-C bond and consequently does not present any problem of selectivity. When higher linear alkanes are used, several higher and lower homologs are produced because various C-H and C-C bonds can be involved. Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also undergo the metathesis reaction; however, neopentane only leads to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tantalum-neopentyl species and does not react further, probably for steric reasons. During the metathesis reaction, infrared spectroscopy shows that the tantalum hydride disappears and is transformed into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. In the case of ethane, the step of C-C bond formation and cleavage enables the liberation of propane and the formation of a tantalum-methyl surface complex. The last step in the catalytic cycle must liberate methane and regenerate the active species, the tantalum-ethyl surface complex. A new four-centered transition state is assumed in which a hydrogen is transferred from an ethane molecule to the methyl ligand. The mechanism of the reaction assumes that in a first step, a C-H bond of an acyclic alkane is cleaved by a a-bond metathesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species. The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the formation of C-C bonds. This mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes. For example, the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane is determined in the first step of C-H bond activation, which yields two species, tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-iso-propyl surface complexes. The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n-butane and isobutane as well as the formation of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane. The metathesis of isobutane is particularly interesting with respect to the product distribution. In agreement with the proposed mechanism, the C-H bond activation step can produce two tantalum-alkyl intermediates.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅支撑过渡金属氢化物催化线性或支链烷烃的下一级和上一级烷烃的甲基化反应，在中等温度下进行。乙烷在室温下转化为丙烷和甲烷的等摩尔混合物。从丙烷、丁烷和戊烷以及异丁烷和异戊烷等支链烷烃中获得更高和更低的同系物。该机制可能涉及钽-烷基中间体和第二分子烷烃的碳-碳α键之间的四中心过渡态。当与环烷烃接触时，不会发生催化反应，但当与非环烷烃接触时，在中等温度下会发生催化甲基化反应，导致形成更高和更低的同系物。最简单的情况是乙烷的甲基化，它只有一个C-C键，因此不存在选择性问题。当使用更高线性烷烃时，由于各种C-H和C-C键可以参与，产生几种更高和更低的同系物。异丁烷或甲基丁烷等支链烷烃也经历了甲基化反应；然而，新戊烷仅导致表面钽-新戊基物种的计量形成，不会进一步反应，可能是因为立体原因。在甲基化反应过程中，红外光谱显示钽氢化物消失并转化为钽-烷基中间体。在乙烷的情况下，C-C键的形成和断裂步骤使丙烷的释放和钽-甲基表面复合物的形成成为可能。催化循环的最后一步必须释放甲烷并再生活性物种，即钽-乙基表面复合物。假设一个新的四中心过渡态，其中氢从乙烷分子转移到甲基配体。反应机制假设在第一步中，非环烷烃的C-H键通过α键甲基化断裂，产生氢气和钽-烷基物种。下一步涉及甲基基团的转移，必然意味着C-C键的断裂和形成。这种机制也适用于更高烷烃。例如，从丙烷形成n-丁烷和异丁烷是在C-H键活化的第一步中确定的，产生两种物种，即钽-n-丙基和钽-异丙基表面复合物。从第二个丙烷分子向这些丙基中间体转移甲基基团使n-丁烷和异丁烷的产生以及钽-乙基复合物的形成成为可能，反过来又会产生乙烷。异丁烷的甲基化在产品分布方面特别有趣。根据提出的机制，C-H键活化步骤可以产生两种钽-烷基中间体。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
