I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Seinfeld, Environ. S
C
I
.
Techno/. 21, 1224 (1987); M
W. Gery, D L. Fox, H. E. Jeffres, Int. J. Chem. Kinet.
17, 931 (1985); J. A. Leone, R. C. Flagan, D.
Grosjean, J. H. Seinfeld, ibid., p. 177; D. Grosjean,in Ozone and Other Photochemical Oxldants (National Academy of Sciences, Washngton,
DC, 19771,
c h a  .
3.
9. R. A. Harley, M. P. Hanngan, G. R. Cass, Atrnos.
Environ. A 26, 2395 (1992).
10. J. R. Odum et a/.
, Environ. Sci. Techno/. 30, 2580 (1 996). 11, Initial hydrocarbon concentrations ranged from 400 to 5000 pg m-3 for the indvduai aromatic experi- ments and from 2700 to 7000 pg m-3 for the gas- olne experiments. Concentratons of N
O
,
(NO +
N
O
,)
were selected so that HC/NO, ratios typical of those n an urban environment (5 to 10 ppbC/ppb
N
O
,)
were achieved. The ratio of NO/NO, was al- ways set ,at 2
12. Scanning. electrcal
moblity spectrometers were used to obtain complete particle number and size distributons with a I-min frequency. Time-depen- dent particle volume concentrations were calculated from these distributons. The time-dependent cumu- latve organic volume concentration was calculated by subtractng the volume concentration at time t (corrected for deposton) from the initial volume con- centration. Total organic mass concentrations were calculated from the total cumulative organic volume concentraton assumlng the density of the con- densed organic phase was 1 g m -
13. J. F. Pankow, Atmos. Envlron. A 28, 185 (1
994)
14. Parameter
KO, IS an equiiibrium constant descrbng the parttioning of semvolatle organics between the vapor phase and an absorbing organc condensed phase: K
O
,
= (F/M,)/A,
where F and A are a semi- volatle compound's concentration in the absorbng organc and vapor phases, respectvely, and M ,is the concentraton of the absorbing organic aerosol.
15. AQIRP was a cooperative program whose members
included three domestc auto companies and 14 pe- troleum companies, the objectve of which was to develop data on the potential improvements n vehi- cle emissons and ar quality, prmarly O ,,
from re- formulated gasoline, varlous other alternative fuels,and developments In automotive technology. V. R.Burns et a/,, SAE Tech. Pap. 972320 (Society of Automotive Engineers, Warren, PA, 1991); A. M.
Hochhauser et a/., SAE Tech. Pap. 912322 (Socety of Automotive Engneers, Warren, PA, 1991).
16. R.
H.
Paul and M.
J. McNally,
SAE Tech. Pap. 902098 (Society of Automotive Engineers, Warren,
PA, 1991);
W. 0.
Siegl et a/. , SAE Tech. Pap. 930742 (Socety of Automotive Engineers, Warren, PA, 1993).
17. Hydroxyl radical and 0
,rate constants were taken from review literature (20) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) chemical kinetics database (27) or, when experimentally not known,were estimated wth the structure reactvity relations (SARs) (22). The SAR expressions for alkanes and alkenes were used unchanged; we modified those for aromatics by deriving a new Hammet constant for metasubstituents (u;).
We optimized u ;
for the ring addition rate constant (k,,,) of 15 alkyl-substituted aromatics. The expression derived for use within SAR was log,,k ,,,
(cm3 molecule-' s-') = -1 1.89 - 1 .828ut,where u+ = u ;
and c r ;,,
with u ;
= -0.190 for all meta-alky substituents and Hammet constants for ortho and para substtuents ( u ;,)
as used in (22). The quality of the fit for the overall OH rate constant estimatesfor aromatics was improved to 30% maximum error, compared to 110% using the parameters in (22).
18. The value of Aaromatc was calculated by summing
the reacted amount of each aromatic species in a fuei for a glven experiment. The ratio of AM,/Aaro- matic is a measure of the SOA yeld of a fuel in terms of its aromatic fracton only. For the individual aro- matc experments, AM,/Aaromatic
= Y.
19. For most fuels, 92 to 99% of the mass was specated
n AQIRP (76).
Only 83% of the mass of fuel RF-L,whch was the only high T ,,
A
Q
l
R
P
Phase I fuel used in ths study, was specated in AQIRP (23). Much of the remaining 17% of the mass of this fuel is most likely heavy aromatic speces that contribute to the SOA formed from the oxdation of this fuel. Because this 17% was not speciated, Aaromatic for this fuel is most Ikely underestimated, explaining why this fuel does not fall withn the envelope as all other fuels specfled by curves 1 and 2 (Fg. 2).
20. R. Atkinson, J. Phys. Chem. Ref, Data Monogr. 2
(1 994).
21. NIST Chemcal
Kinetics Database ver 6.01
; W. G.
Mallard, F. Westley, J. T. Herron, R. F. Hampson, NiST Standard Reference Data, Gaithersburg, MD (1 994).
22. E. S. C. Kwok and R. Atkinson, Atmos. Environ. A
29, 1685 (1 995).
23. Temperature T
,,
is the distillation temperature at which 90% of the fuel evaporates. It relates to a fuel's heavy-end volatility: Fuels with high T ,,
con- tain a signficant fraction of heavy components. In Phase I of the AQIRP, only 143 compounds were specated, and many of the heavy components (in- cludng aromatcs) were not accounted for. In Phase 1 1 ,320 compounds were speciated, and many of the heavier aromatcs were accounted for.
Thus, more than 94% of the carbon, on average,was accounted for In all Phase II fuels (both hiah and low T ,,) .
24. We would Ike to acknowledge support by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency Center on Air- borne Organics, the ational Science Foundaton,the Deutsche Forschungsgemenschaft,the Coord- nating Research Councl,and the Chevron Corpora- ton. We would also Ike to thank S. Kent Hoekman for his helpful comments 2 December 1996; accepted 5 February 1997 Metathesis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Silica-Supported Transition Metal Hydrides Veronique Vidal, Albert Theolier, Jean Thivolle-Cazat, Jean-Marie Basset* The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C). With (Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H, ethane was transformed at room temperature into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane.
Higher and lower homologs were obtained from propane,butane, and pentane as well as from branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane.
The mechanism of the step leading to carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation likely involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon a-bond of a second molecule of alkane.
Paraffins, particularly methane and light alkanes, constitute an abundant yet low- value fossil feedstock. Light alkanes would c z
be very valuable if they could be trans- formed into higher molecular weight hydro- carbons (1); this represents a continuing scientific challenge (2). Here, we report observations of a catalytic reaction that we designate "metathesis of alkanes" and which, to our knowledge, has not previously been reported (3). The metathesis reaction proceeds by both the cleavage and the for- mation of the C-C bonds of acyclic alkanes,which are transformed into a mixture of higher and lower homologs. It was observed in the presence of various silica-supported metal-hydride catalysts, particularly tanta- lum hydride (4),all prepared by the surface organometallic chemistry route (5,6). Met- athesis reactions of alkenes and alkynes,discovered a few decades ago, are now well " ,documented and understood and are used in several industrial chemical Drocesses. In contrast to the metathesis of alkenes (7) or alkynes (8),for which the cleavage of the molecule occurs selectively at the C==C or Laboratore de Chimie Organometallque de Surface, UMR CNRS-CPE 9986, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre 191
8. 6961
6 Villeurbanne Cedex, France *To whom correspondence should be addressed
G C
bond, the metathesis of acyclic al- kanes seems to involve, at least to some extent. the reaction of all C-C bonds.
Thus, the reaction, even if it is selective in terms of the formation and cleavage of C-C bonds, is not restricted to the formation of the first higher and lower homologs but also can yield the next several higher and lower ones. The metathesis of acyclic olefins is hindered by thermodynamic limitations;such a reaction is close to thermoneutrality for most alkanes (9).
We recently reported that the reaction of Ta(-CH,CMe,),(=CHCMe,) (Me, methyl) (1 0) with the surface hydroxyl groups of a dehydroxylated silica (1 I) leads to the for- mation of a mixture of two species: (Si-0-) Ta(-CH2CMe3),(=CHCMe,) (-65%) and (Si-0-),Ta(-CH2CMe3) (=CHCMe3) (-35%) (12). Treatment of these two sur- face complexes under hydrogen at 150C overnight yields mainly a surface tantalum (111) monohydride, (=Si-o-Si)(=Si-o-) Ta-H ([Ta],-H), which has been fully char- acterized by infrared spectroscopy, extended x-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis, microanalysis, and quantitative chemical reactions (4).
When [Ta],-H was contacted at room temperature with a cyclic alkane (4, 13),no catalytic reaction occurred. Only a C-H v.sciencemag.org
SCIENCE
VOL. 276
4 APRIL 1997
99 Table 1. Metathesis reaction o f acyclic alkanes catalyzed b y the [Ta],-H complex at 150C.
Selectivity o f alkanes produced (%) Alkanes' Meth- Eth- Pro- Bu- Iso- n-Pen- Iso- Neo- n-Hex- Iso- Hep- Oc- ane ane pane tane butane tane pentane pentane ane hexane tanes$ tanes$ Ethane 46 53 - 44
2.4
0.6
Ethane$ 3 37 63 Propane 47
15.7
37.4
-
27.2
6.7
6.5
3.2
2.2
1.2
Propanell 12
1.9
59 - 31 2
4.8
0.6
0.7
Butane 66 2
12.5
36 -
3.5
26.5
3 0 10 1
4.5
1 lsobutane 17 12 22
20.5
0.6
- 0
18.6
5.2
0 13 7 4 Pentane 12
0.8
4
16.5
32
0.5
- - -
24.5
3
12.7
6 'Gaseous alkanes: 1 atm, alkanma ratio . -
800; pentane: 400 torr, Cfla ratio - 400; reaction time: 50 to 80 hours. tThe turnover number (TON) is the average number of alkane molecules transformed per mole of Ta during the experiment. $Linear and branched alkanes. $Catalyzed by silica-supported chromium hydride.
IICataIyzed by silica-supported tungsten hyd&e. bond activation was observed, which led to the stoichiometric formation of a tantalum (111)-cycloalkyl species with the evolution of 1 mol of hydrogen. Tantalum is ex- tremely electrophilic, and thus we assume that this activation occurs by a a-bond metathesis [Ta],-H + (RH) + [Ta],-(R) + Hz (1) (where R = cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclo- heptyl, or cyclooctyl), rather than by an oxidative addition-reductive elimination pathway (13). When pa],-H was contacted with an acyclic alkane, a catalytic metathesis reaction occurred at moderate temperature (25" to 200C), leading to the formation of the higher and lower homologs (Table 1).
The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane. which has onlv one C 4 bond and consequently does not present any problem of selectivity. This alkane yielded propane and methane in comparable amounts, as well as trace amounts of n-butane and isobutane (Fig. 1). In this example, it is clear that a methyl fragment is transferred from one mol- ecule of ethane to a second one. A labeling experiment carried out with l3C-monola- beled ethane yielded unlabeled, monola- beled, dilabeled, and trilabeled propane (5:44:43:8), which proved the cleavage of the 13C-12C bond of ethane and the redis- Butane + isobutane -0 20 40 60 80
I&
Time (hours) Fig. 1. Metathesis reaction o f ethane catalyzed by the silica-supported [Ta],-H complex at 150C under 1 atm (C,H,/Ta ratio, -800). tribution of the 13C atoms into the propane molecules.
When higher linear alkanes were used,several higher and lower homologs were pro- duced, because various G H and C-C bonds can be involved. For example, metathesis of propane yielded mainly n-butane and isobu- tane together with ethane, and n-butane yielded n-pentane and isopentane as well as propane; besides these main products, some higher and lower alkanes were also produced (Fig. 2). This suggests, as observed for ethane,that the main reaction involves the transfer of a methyl fragment from one molecule of the initial alkane to a second one; the wider prod- uct distribution observed with higher alkanes (for example, butane and pentane) (Fig. 2) also suggests the probable occurrence of sec- ondary reactions, the possible transfer of high- er alkyl fragments such as ethyl, or both. The occurrence of the two processes can hardly be distinguished; secondary reactions can take place as the reaction proceeds and the con- version increases. (The two related processes Alkanes produced Fig. 2. Distribution o f the various hydrocarbons produced during the metathesis reaction o f the first lower linear alkanes (at 3% conversion),cat- alyzed by the silica-supported [Ta],-H complex at 150C (ethane,propane, or butanena ratio,-800, P = 1 atm; pentanena ratio, -400, P = 400 torr). The starting alkane i n excess i s not represented. may possibly be distinguished by a kinetic study in a dynamic reactor with varying wn- tact time.) All the alkanes present in the medium can be presumed to wmpete for the adsorption. In the case of ethane, secondary reactions seem to occur verv soon with the appearance of butane and especially isobu- tane. the formation of which necessarilv arises from a secondary reaction of propane.
Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also underwent the metathesis reac- tion; however, neopentane only led to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tanta- lum-neopentyl species and did not react fur- ther, probably for steric reasons.
During the metathesis reaction, infrared spectroscopy showed that the tantalum hy- dride disappeared and was transformed into a tantalum-alkvl intermediate. At 150C. aging of the catalyst was observed, prevent- ing higher conversions. In a few exploratory experiments, it was observed that similar CH3-CH3 h ,
I
s -
C
&
A3,,
Scheme 1.
Scheme 2 100
SCIENCE
VOL. 276
4 APRIL 1997
http://www.sciencemag.org silica-supported hydrides of tungsten or chromium (14) were also able to catalyze the alkane metathesis reaction (Table I ) ,whereas silica-supported hydrides of zirco- nium, hafnium, or aluminum (14) did not show any activity. To our knowledge, this alkane metathesis reaction is an unprece- dented catalytic reaction; it can be de- scribed by the general equation C n H 2 n + 2  * Cn+tHZ(n+i)+Z+ Cn-iHZ(n-i)+Z (2) with i = 1, 2, . . . ,n - 1,but where i = 1 is generally favored.C-H bond activation of alkanes (1 7); oth- er four-centered intermediates have been proposed in the dehydropolymerization of silane compounds (18). In the case of ethane, this step of C-C bond formation and cleavage enables the liberation of pro- pane and the formation of a tantalum- methyl surface complex. The last step in the catalytic cycle must liberate methane and regenerate the active species, the tan- talum-ethyl surface complex; a new four- centered transition state is assumed in which a hydrogen is transferred from an ethane molecule to the methyl ligand (Scheme 1).
Scheme 3.
Scheme 4.
Regarding the mechanism of the reaction (15) (Scheme I), we assume that in a first steo. a C-H bond of acvclic alkane (for ex- & ,
ample, ethane) is cleaved by a a-bond met- athesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum- alkyl (for example, ethyl) species; this ele- mentary step is indeed observed during the C-H bond activation of cycloalkanes on the [Ta],-H species, yielding the corresponding tantalum-cycloalkyl surface complexes (Eq.
I), and occurs without modification of the oxidation state of the metal (4).
The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the for- mation of C-C bonds. Among the known elementary steps, two possibilities can be con- sidered: (i) The oxidative addition of the ethane C-C bond (16) would yield the dim- ethyl(ethyl)tantalum(V) surface complex; re- ductive elimination of propane from this com- vlex could follow, with the concomitant re- iease of a tantallm-methyl species. (ii) A a-bond metathesis mechanism, which we ore- fer because of the highly electrophilic charac- ter of the silica-supported tantalum-alkyl spe- cies, would involve a four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle (Scheme 2).
Such a mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes. For example, the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane is determined in the first step of C-H bond activation, which yields two spe- cies, tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-iso- propyl surface complexes (Scheme 3). The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n- butane and isobutane as well as the forma- tion of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane.
The metathesis of isobutane is particu- larly interesting with respect to the product distribution. In agreement with the pro- posed mechanism, the C-H bond activa- tion step can produce two tantalum-alkyl intermediates (Scheme 4). We can expect that the formation of the tantalum-tert- butyl species can be disfavored (relative to that of the other possible tantalum-isobutyl complex) for steric reasons; despite this, the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum- tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 