element not found

Organic Process Research & DevelopmentVol 5/Issue 6Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
BOOK REVIEWOctober 26, 2001
Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalytic Hydrogenation for Organic Synthesis By S. Nishimura. Wiley-VCH:  New York. 2001. 700 pp. $175.00. ISBN 0-471-39698-2.
Open PDF
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2001 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Catalysis
Catalytic Reactions
Hydrogenation
Redox Reactions
Transfer Reactions
In the preface to the book, the author states that the “book is intended primarily to provide experimental guidelines for organic synthesis”. I would disagree on the use of the words experimental guidelines, since there are no typical experimental procedures, no safety and handling information, and there is little practical detail on how to conduct a heterogeneous hydrogenation. Reactors are covered in one and a half pagesmostly a list of references to other sourcesand scale-up issues are hardly mentioned, even in the section on nitro reductions.
Nevertheless, this is a very useful book, since it covers the topic from an organic chemist's viewpoint (rather than a catalysis expert's view). The chapters are arranged logically by type of reaction (reduction of alkenes, alkynes, carbonyls, nitriles, imines, nitros, acids and esters, aromatics, heterocycles as well as reductive alkylation, and hydrogenolysis. With over 700 pages the coverage is fairly comprehensive, and anyone doing a catalytic hydrogenation should consult the relevant chapter for referencethe detail is excellent and should allow the chemist to choose how to carry out the processI suspect this is what the author intends by the words “experimental guidelines”.
Of course, a major disadvantage of any work on heterogeneous hydrogenation is that synthetic chemists in the lab just want a good synthetic methodthey are not so concerned about whether it is heterogeneous or homogeneous. In fact they would like to compare the two types of hydrogenation. Perhaps the author will now produce a second volume on homogeneous hydrogenation.
A further disadvantage is that the book's references tend to be towards the older literature, with only a few to the 1990s literaturemost of these are referenced to books derived from conference proceedings or to the author's own work.
Despite these criticisms, chemists will find this a useful guide, and it should be in all organic chemistry libraries. The volume will inevitably be compared to Augustine's Heterogeneous Catalysis for the Synthetic Chemist (Marcel Dekker, 1995) which has much more fundamental information about catalysis, catalytic mechanisms, and kinetics. The books are complementaryyou should buy both!
Cited By
This article is cited by 1 publications.
Mohammed Sadou, Adel Saadi, Khaldoun Bachari, Rami Suleiman, M. Hadj Meliani. MCM-41 Supported Copper-Based Catalysts: Physicochemical Characterizations and Catalytic Performances in the Gas Phase Hydrogenation of Benzaldehyde. Journal of Bio- and Tribo-Corrosion 2018, 4 (4) https://doi.org/10.1007/s40735-018-0177-5
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
Organic Process Research & Development
Cite this: Org. Proc. Res. Dev. 2001, 5, 6, 669–670
https://doi.org/10.1021/op0100798
Published October 26, 2001
Copyright © 2001 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
1038
Altmetric
-
Citations
1
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Selective Hydrogenation over Supported Metal Catalysts: From Nanoparticles to Single Atoms
September 24, 2019Chemical Reviews
Leilei Zhang, Maoxiang Zhou, Aiqin Wang*, and Tao Zhang
Heterogeneous catalytic transfer hydrogenation and its relation to other methods for reduction of organic compounds
May 1, 2002Chemical Reviews
Robert A. W. Johnstone, Anna H. Wilby, and Ian D. Entwistle
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
This publication has no figures.