<quotes>
[1] "The effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of the ceria(111) surface are studied using first-principles density functional theory with the inclusion of on-site Coulomb interaction."
[2] "It is found that (i) Zr doping induces a severe distortion of the unreduced surface structure; (ii) at the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, the oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy show much larger displacements than those on the pure CeO2(111) surface; (iii) an oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, and the reduction energy is lowered by about 0.5 eV; (iv) the excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations neighboring the vacancy and thus brings about the reduction of the two Ce4+ ions; and (v) the atomic structure modification induced by the Zr doping plays a vital role in facilitating the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution as compared to the pure ceria."
[3] "The reduction leads to a new gap state appearing above the O 2p band edge and below the Fermi level which is shown in Fig. 5d. The integration of this new peak gives again the total number of two electrons, which are almost completely localized on two of the nearest neighbor Ce cat- ions of the vacancy. Also in this case, each of the two Ce cations receives about 0.94 electrons and is reduced to a Ce3+. The electron localization is clearly seen from the par- tial charge density plots for the new DOS peak as shown in Fig. 6b."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study examines the impact of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic characteristics of ceria(111) surfaces using first-principles density functional theory with on-site Coulomb interaction. Zr doping causes a significant distortion of the surface structure, particularly at the reduced state. Oxygen vacancies are more easily formed around the Zr dopant, reducing the reduction energy by approximately 0.5 eV. Excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on two Ce cations adjacent to the vacancy, leading to the reduction of these Ce4+ ions. The atomic structure modifications due to Zr doping facilitate the reduction of the ceria-zirconia solid solution more effectively than pure ceria. The reduction process creates a new gap state above the O 2p band edge and below the Fermi level, with the electrons localized on two Ce cations, resulting in their reduction to Ce3+ ions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究使用第一原理密度泛函理论和局域电荷相互作用，探讨了锆掺杂对铈(111)表面的原子和电子性质的影响。锆掺杂导致表面结构显著扭曲，特别是在还原态下更为明显。氧空位更容易在锆掺杂点形成，降低还原能约0.5 eV。被移除的氧原子留下的多余电子局部化在与空位相邻的两个铈离子上，导致这些铈4+离子的还原。由于锆掺杂引起的原子结构修改，锆铈氧化物固溶体的还原比纯铈更为有效。还原过程在费米能级以下产生新的带隙状态，位于O 2p能带边缘之上，电子局部化在两个铈离子上，导致它们还原为铈3+离子。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
