<quotes>
Facilitated vacancy formation at Zr-doped ceria(111) surfaces Zongxian Yang a,*, Yanwei Wei a, Zhaoming Fu a, Zhansheng Lu a, Kersti Hermansson b,* a College of Physics and Information Engineering, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, Henan 453007, Peoples Republic of China b Materials Chemistry, The A ngstro m Laboratory, Uppsala University, Box 538, SE-75121 Uppsala, Sweden Received 12 October 2007; accepted for publication 11 January 2008 Available online 24 January 2008 Abstract The effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of the ceria(111) surface are studied using first-principles density functional theory with the inclusion of on-site Coulomb interaction. The atomic structures, electronic structure, and the vacancy forma- tion energies of the Zr-doped and undoped ceria(111) surfaces are compared. It is found that (i) Zr doping induces a severe distortion of the unreduced surface structure; (ii) at the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, the oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy show much larger displacements than those on the pure CeO2(111) surface; (iii) an oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, and the reduction energy is lowered by about 0.5 eV; (iv) the excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations neighboring the vacancy and thus brings about the reduction of the two Ce4+ ions; and (v) the atomic structure modification induced by the Zr doping plays a vital role in facilitating the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution as compared to the pure ceria. 

After a few very early first-principles studies of bulk cer- ia using density functional theory (DFT) [19] and periodic HartreeFock calculations [20,21] many new first-principle studies have appeared in the last 5 years especially. The vast majority of these have focused on the bulk and sur- faces of pure ceria [2226]. First-principles studies for Zr- doped ceria and its reduction properties are very few, how- ever. Rodriguez et al. [26] used plane wave pseudopotential DFT calculations to study the bulk properties of ceria with different Zr dopant concentrations and reproduced the X- ray diffraction-determined contraction of the cell parame- ters with increasing Zr content. Yang et al. [27] elaborated in detail on the differences in atomic structure, electronic structure, and reduction properties between undoped and Zr-doped CeO2 bulk using DFT methodology with the inclusion of an on-site Coulomb interaction (the DFT + U method [28,29]) and came to the conclusion that the Zr doping enhances the formation of the oxygen vacancy in the vicinity of the Zr centers.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of ceria(111) surfaces. It highlights several key findings:

1. Zr doping significantly alters the surface structure, causing substantial distortion.
2. At the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy exhibit much greater displacements compared to the pure CeO2(111) surface.
3. An oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, reducing the reduction energy by about 0.5 eV.
4. Excess electrons from the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations near the vacancy, leading to the reduction of these Ce4+ ions.
5. The atomic structure modification by Zr doping facilitates the reduction process in ceria-zirconia solid solutions compared to pure ceria.

Rodriguez et al. and Yang et al. also contribute to this research, providing insights into the bulk properties of ceria with Zr doping and the differences in atomic structure, electronic structure, and reduction properties between undoped and Zr-doped CeO2 bulk.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文档讨论了锆掺杂对铈(111)表面的原子和电子性质的影响。它强调了几个关键发现：

1. 锆掺杂显著改变了表面结构，导致了明显的扭曲。
2. 在还原的锆掺杂铈(111)表面上，围绕氧空位的氧离子显示出与纯铈氧化物(111)表面相比更大的位移。
3. 氧空位更容易在锆掺杂中心附近形成，降低了约0.5 eV的还原能。
4. 被移除的氧原子剩余的多余电子局部化在靠近空位的两个铈离子上，导致这些铈4+离子的还原。
5. 锆掺杂引起的原子结构修改使铈锆固溶体中的还原过程相对于纯铈更为有利。

罗德里格斯等人和杨等人也为此研究做出了贡献，提供了关于锆掺杂铈的宏观性质的信息以及未掺杂和锆掺杂铈氧化物块状的原子结构、电子结构和还原性能差异的见解。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
