<quotes>
Facilitated vacancy formation at Zr-doped ceria(111) surfaces Zongxian Yang a,*, Yanwei Wei a, Zhaoming Fu a, Zhansheng Lu a, Kersti Hermansson b,* a College of Physics and Information Engineering, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, Henan 453007, Peoples Republic of China b Materials Chemistry, The A ngstro m Laboratory, Uppsala University, Box 538, SE-75121 Uppsala, Sweden

The effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of the ceria(111) surface are studied using first-principles density functional theory with the inclusion of on-site Coulomb interaction. The atomic structures, electronic structure, and the vacancy forma- tion energies of the Zr-doped and undoped ceria(111) surfaces are compared. It is found that (i) Zr doping induces a severe distortion of the unreduced surface structure; (ii) at the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, the oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy show much larger displacements than those on the pure CeO2(111) surface; (iii) an oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, and the reduction energy is lowered by about 0.5 eV; (iv) the excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations neighboring the vacancy and thus brings about the reduction of the two Ce4+ ions; and (v) the atomic structure modification induced by the Zr doping plays a vital role in facilitating the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution as compared to the pure ceria.

The reduction leads to a new gap state appearing above the O 2p band edge and below the Fermi level which is shown in Fig. 5d. The integration of this new peak gives again the total number of two electrons, which are almost completely localized on two of the nearest neighbor Ce cat- ions of the vacancy. Also in this case, each of the two Ce cations receives about 0.94 electrons and is reduced to a Ce3+. The electron localization is clearly seen from the par- tial charge density plots for the new DOS peak as shown in Fig. 6b.

The effects of Zr doping on the electronic structure can be seen in the DOSs for the unreduced and reduced Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) (the Vb model) in Fig. 5c and d. It is found that the DOSs for the Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) and the CeO2(111) systems are very similar, which suggests that the Zr doping has no obvious effect on the electronic struc- ture when the O vacancy is created: the two excess electrons left by the released oxygen still localize on two Ce ions neighboring the vacancy, in agreement with the experimen- tal results [12,51].

The structure and electronic properties of CeO2(111) and Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) surfaces were investigated in detail applying DFT + U method which ensures a better descrip- tion for the strong electron correlation effects in the Ce4f states. It is found that the formation of an oxygen vacancy is greatly facilitated at the Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) surface close to the Zr centers, with a reduction of the formation energy by as much as 0.52 eV per vacancy. The formation of each oxygen vacancy results in the reduction of two Ce cations neighboring the O vacancy. The effect of Zr doping on the electronic structures of the unreduced system is very mild,with no obvious difference between Ce0.75Z- r0.25O2(111) and CeO2(111).

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Zirconium (Zr) doping significantly affects the atomic and electronic properties of ceria (CeO2) (111) surfaces. It facilitates the formation of vacancies and lowers the reduction energy by about 0.5 eV per vacancy. The excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two cerium (Ce) cations neighboring the vacancy, causing the reduction of these Ce4+ ions to Ce3+ ions. The atomic structure modification induced by Zr doping plays a crucial role in enhancing the reducibility of ceria-zirconia solid solutions compared to pure ceria.

2. Doping with Zr reduces the formation energy of an oxygen vacancy on the (111) surface of ceria-zirconia solid solutions by approximately 0.52 eV per vacancy. This is attributed to the distortion of the surface structure and the larger displacements of oxygen anions around the vacancy. 

3. The effects of Zr doping on the electronic structure are minimal. The two excess electrons left by the released oxygen atom still localize on two Ce ions neighboring the vacancy. This electron localization occurs regardless of whether the system is unreduced or reduced.

4. Zr doping facilitates the formation of oxygen vacancies on the (111) surface of ceria-zirconia solid solutions, reducing the formation energy of these vacancies. This effect is more pronounced near the Zr centers. The presence of Zr centers offers many sites for oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the overall reducibility of the material.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在CeO2（111）表面中，锆（Zr）掺杂显著影响原子和电子性质。它促进了空位的形成，并将还原能降低约0.5 eV/个空位。被移除的氧原子留下的多余电子局部化在与空位相邻的两个铈（Ce）离子上，导致这些Ce4+离子还原为Ce3+离子。由Zr诱导的原子结构修改对增强纯CeO2与CeO2-ZrO2固溶体之间的可还原性起着关键作用。

2. Zr掺杂减少了（111）表面的CeO2-ZrO2固溶体中氧气空位的形成能量，大约为0.52 eV/个空位。这是由于表面结构的扭曲以及围绕空位的氧离子更大位移的结果。

3. Zr掺杂对电子结构的影响很小。释放的氧原子留下的两个多余电子仍然局部化在与空位相邻的两个Ce离子上。无论系统是未还原还是还原状态，这种电子局部化都发生。

4.Zr掺杂在CeO2-ZrO2固溶体的（111）表面上促进氧气空位的形成，降低了形成空位的能量。这种效应在Zr中心附近更为明显。存在Zr中心提供了许多氧气空位形成的位置，增强了材料的整体可还原性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
