<quotes>

[1] "Ethylene, propylene, and butylenes are key building blocks in the chemical industry. Throughout this review we refer to C2C4 olefins as lower or light olefins. These base chemicals are among the organic chemicals with the largest production volumes worldwide (Table 1). Their broad spectrum of derivatives result in a very diverse end market ranging from packing materials and synthetic textiles to antifreezing agents, solvents, and coatings."
[2] "Ethylene is the largest-volume petrochemical produced worldwide. It is used to produce intermediate chemicals of high importance in industry such as ethyl benzene, ethylene oxide, and ethylene dichloride, which were listed, along with ethylene, in the top 30 highest volume chemicals in the United States in 2000. (2) The major chemicals derived from ethylene and their derivatives are shown in Figure 1. Ethylene is mainly used by the plastics industry. In 2010, approximately 61% of the total consumption of ethylene was for production of polyethylene in the Western European countries (Figure 2). Ethylene is also used in the production of other plastics such as polystyrene (PS), polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which are widely used in the packaging, textile, and construction industries."
[3] "Propylene is a versatile petrochemical which has even more derivatives than ethylene. However, the tremendous growth of polypropylene consumption over the past 15 years has been the main driver of the large increase of the demand of propylene. In 2010, more than 55% of propylene consumption was dedicated to the production of polypropylene in the Western European countries. Approximately 13% of the propylene was used in the production of propylene oxide, which is a chemical precursor for the synthesis of propylene glycol and polyols. The rest of the production was used in the synthesis of cumene (about 8%), acrylonitrile, isopropyl alcohol, and many other industrially relevant chemicals. (3)"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Light olefins, such as ethylene and propylene, are key building blocks in the chemical industry. They are among the organic chemicals with the largest production volumes worldwide. Ethylene is the largest-volume petrochemical produced worldwide. It is used to produce intermediate chemicals of high importance in industry such as ethyl benzene, ethylene oxide, and ethylene dichloride. Ethylene is mainly used by the plastics industry. In 2010, approximately 61% of the total consumption of ethylene was for production of polyethylene in the Western European countries. Ethylene is also used in the production of other plastics such as polystyrene (PS), polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which are widely used in the packaging, textile, and construction industries. Propylene is a versatile petrochemical which has even more derivatives than ethylene. However, the tremendous growth of polypropylene consumption over the past 15 years has been the main driver of the large increase of the demand of propylene. In 2010, more than 55% of propylene consumption was dedicated to the production of polypropylene in the Western European countries. Approximately 13% of the propylene was used in the production of propylene oxide, which is a chemical precursor for the synthesis of propylene glycol and polyols. The rest of the production was used in the synthesis of cumene (about 8%), acrylonitrile, isopropyl alcohol, and many other industrially relevant chemicals.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.轻烯烃，如乙烯和丙烯，是化工行业中的关键基础原料。它们是全球产量最大的有机化学品之一。乙烯是全球产量最大的石化产品。它用于生产工业中具有重要地位的中间化学品，如乙苯、环氧乙烷和二氯乙烯。乙烯主要用于塑料行业。2010年，西欧国家乙烯总消费量的约61%用于聚乙烯的生产。乙烯还用于生产其他塑料，如聚苯乙烯（PS）、聚对苯二甲酸乙二醇酯（PET）和聚氯乙烯（PVC），这些塑料广泛用于包装、纺织和建筑行业。丙烯是一种比乙烯具有更多衍生物的多功能石化产品。然而，过去15年聚丙烯消费量的大幅增长是丙烯需求大幅增加的主要驱动力。2010年，西欧国家超过55%的丙烯消费量用于聚丙烯的生产。约13%的丙烯用于生产环氧丙烷，这是合成丙二醇和聚醚的化学前体。其余的生产用于合成酮（约8%）、丙烯腈、异丙醇和许多其他工业相关的化学品。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
