<questions>

What role does CO2 play in catalysis as a soft oxidant and promoter?

How do various support materials and reaction conditions influence chromium oxide catalysts in CO2 oxidative dehydrogenation reactions?

</questions>

<quotes>
The utilization of CO2 as a soft oxidant and promoter is a promising concept for industrial applications that could not only contribute to the mitigation of CO2 levels, but also the development of economical and energy efficient syntheses of various chemicals.

At present, only a few processes based on CO2 as a soft oxidant have been realized on a technical scale in spite of dedicated research. 

The effect of carbon dioxide in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethyl benzene to styrene was studied by Park et al. over a zeolite-supported iron oxide catalyst, which exhibited superior conversions compared with that of a simple dehydronation in a nitrogen atmosphere.

The studies by Nakagawa et al. on the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane in the presence of carbon dioxide over Cr2O3 supported on oxidized diamond evidenced a synergy between the support and Cr2O3, which promoted the catalytic performance.

The oxidative coupling of methane with CO2 Methane reacts with water at elevated temperatures to form hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a reforming reaction. The alternative approach with regards to its utilization is by oxidative coupling to form C2H6 and C2H4 using O2 as an oxidant, which is limited largely by the undesirable formation of CO2 and CO as by-products.

The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane with CO2 over catalytic systems will not only proceed in a completely oxidative manner, but also partially by a simple dehydrogenation.

Propene is produced from fossil fuelspetroleum, natural gas and, to a much lesser extent, coal. There have been several alternative technologies that have been developed, such as olefin metathesis, which involves disproportionation between ethylene and butene, methanol-to-propene conversion and olefin cracking.

The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane with CO2 over a CrMnLaV/Al2O3 catalyst and the conversion of C4H10 was found to be 8184% with selectivity for C2C4 in the range of 7678% at 630650 C.

The conversion of p-xylene was 84.1% in O2/CO2, whereas in an O2 stream it was 60.7%.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
CO2 plays a pivotal role in catalysis as a soft oxidant and promoter, enabling industrial applications that mitigate CO2 levels while fostering the synthesis of various chemicals efficiently. Despite some research, only a few technical-scale processes have been developed. CO2 facilitates the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethyl benzene to styrene, showing superior conversion rates compared to nitrogen atmospheres. Supports like oxidized diamond can synergistically boost catalytic performance in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The oxidative coupling of methane to C2H6 and C2H4 is an alternative to traditional reforming reactions, albeit limited by by-product formation. CO2 can be used in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, both in a completely oxidative manner and partially through simple dehydrogenation. For propene production, alternative technologies such as olefin metathesis, methanol-to-propene conversion, and olefin cracking are also employed. The oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane (C4H10) is another area of focus, with studies showing high conversions and selectivities for C2C4 products. In the oxidation of p-xylene, the presence of CO2 significantly boosts the conversion rates compared to an O2-only atmosphere.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
二氧化碳在催化反应中作为软氧化剂和促进剂扮演着关键角色，为减少二氧化碳水平、推动各种化学物质高效合成提供工业应用。尽管进行了研究，但只有少数技术规模的过程得到实现。二氧化碳促进了乙基苯乙烯到苯乙烯的氧化脱氢，显示出与氮气大气相比更高的转化率。氧化金刚石等支持材料可以协同提高乙烷的氧化脱氢性能。甲烷的氧化耦合形成C2H6和C2H4是传统重整反应的替代方法，但由副产品形成限制较大。二氧化碳可以在乙烷的氧化脱氢过程中使用，既可以完全氧化也可以部分通过简单脱氢。对于丙烯生产，其他技术如烯烃互变异构、甲醇至丙烯转化和烯烃裂解也被采用。n-丁烷（C4H10）的氧化脱氢是另一个研究焦点，研究表明高转化率和C2C4产物的选择性。在p-二甲苯的氧化中，二氧化碳的存在显著提高了与纯氧气环境相比的转化率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
