<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          The energy (Evf) required for removing one of the oxygen atoms to form a vacancy in the surface layer and half an oxygen molecule in the gas phase.
          On the other hand, CO oxidation by using any one of the four oxygen atoms of the AuxTi1xO2 surface is exothermic; on this surface CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored.
          After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate (figure 1e), with a very substantial release of energy (about 4 eV). This complex decomposes to release CO2 and leaves behind an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy. This restores the surface to its initial state, which means that this set of reactions is catalytic.
          The essential elements of the oxidation mechanism proposed here involve the weakening, by the dopant, of the bond between the oxygen atoms in the top surface layer and the oxide, and the reactivity of the oxygen vacancy and of the molecules adsorbed at an oxygen vacancy site.
          The stability of the doped oxide depends on the method of preparation and the composition of the reacting gases.
          A good oxidation catalyst in this class of compounds requires a fine balance between the rate of oxide reduction and oxidation.
          The error is caused by the electron self- interaction in DFT, which favors the delocalization of the electron in the d- or f-bands where the electron should be localized on individual atoms.
          A good catalyst in this class must strike a balance between the ability to donate an oxygen atom during oxidation, and that of taking oxy- gen from the gas phase to heal the oxygen vacancy formed by the oxidation reaction.
          The oxidation takes place by a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism;
          To determine to what extent the oxide becomes a better oxidant when doped with Au, we have calcu- lated the energy (Evf) required for removing one of the oxygen atoms to form a vacancy in the surface layer and half an oxygen molecule in the gas phase.
          Doping weakens dramatically the bond of surface oxygen to the oxide, even when a Ti atom is substituted by Au in the slab sub layer (not shown).
          However, O2 binds more weakly on an bridging-oxygen vacancy on the Au-doped (DeO2  0:68 eV) than on a pure TiO2(110) surface (DeO2  2:80 eV).
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions by the removal of an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which then reacts with a gas-phase reactant, such as CO, to form a product and leave behind an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is significant in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and a better catalyst. In the case of AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using any of the four oxygen atoms on the surface is exothermic, making CO oxidation thermodynamically favored. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate, releasing a substantial amount of energy. This complex then decomposes to release CO2 and leaves behind an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface to its initial state and making the set of reactions catalytic. The mechanism involves the weakening of the bond between surface oxygen atoms and the oxide by the dopant, making the oxygen vacancy more reactive. A good catalyst needs to balance the rate of oxide reduction and oxidation, ensuring that the oxygen vacancy is quickly replenished after an oxidation reaction. Doping with Au significantly weakens the bond of surface oxygen to the oxide, making it easier to form oxygen vacancies and thus enhancing the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. This results in a more favorable thermodynamic condition for CO oxidation on the doped oxide surface compared to the undoped one.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          火星-范克雷维尔机制在氧化物催化的氧化反应中通过从氧化物表面移除一个氧原子形成空位，然后与气相反应物（如CO）反应形成产物并留下氧空位来运作。形成氧空位所需的能量（ΔEv）在确定氧化物表面的催化活性和氧化能力方面具有重要意义。较低的ΔEv表明表面更具有反应性，是一个更好的催化剂。在AuxTi1xO2的情况下，使用表面的任何四个氧原子之一的CO氧化是放热的，使CO氧化在热力学上是有利的。吸附后，氧分子与气相CO反应形成碳酸盐，释放大量能量。然后，该复合物分解，释放CO2，并留下一个氧原子填充空位，使表面恢复到初始状态，使这一系列反应成为催化反应。该机制涉及掺杂剂削弱表面氧原子与氧化物之间的键，使氧空位更具反应性。一个好的催化剂需要平衡氧化还原和氧化的速率，确保氧化反应后氧空位迅速得到补充。用Au掺杂会显著削弱表面氧与氧化物的结合，使形成氧空位变得更容易，从而增强了氧化物表面的氧化能力。这导致与未掺杂的氧化物表面相比，在掺杂氧化物表面上CO氧化的热力学条件更为有利。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
