I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


A review of multiscale modeling of metal-catalyzed reactions: Mechanism development for complexity and emergent behavior Abstract We review and provide a perspective on multiscale modeling of catalytic reactions with emphasis on mechanism development and application to complex and emergent systems. We start with an overview of length and time scales, objectives, and challenges in first-principles modeling of reactive systems. Subsequently, we review various methods that ensure thermodynamic consistency of mean-field microkinetic models. Next, we describe estimation of reaction rate constants via quantum mechanical and statisticalmechanical methods as well as semi-empirical methods. Among the latter, we discuss the bond-order conservation method for thermochemistry and activation energy estimation. In addition, we review the newly developed group-additivity method on adsorbate/metal systems and linear free energy or BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relations, and their parameterization using DFT calculations to generate databases of activation energies and reaction free energies. Linear scaling relations, which can enable transfer of reaction energetics among metals, are discussed. Computation-driven catalyst design is reviewed and a new platform for discovery of materials with emergent behavior is introduced. The effect of parameter uncertainty on catalyst design is discussed; it is shown that adsorbateadsorbate interactions can profoundly impact materials design. Spatiotemporal averaging of microscopic events via the kinetic Monte Carlo method for realistic reaction mechanisms is discussed as an alternative to mean-field modeling. A hierarchical multiscale modeling strategy is proposed as a means of addressing (some of) the complexity of catalytic reactions. Structure-based microkinetic modeling is next reviewed to account for nanoparticle size and shape effects and structure sensitivity of catalytic reactions. It is hypothesized that catalysts with multiple sites of comparable activity can exhibit structure sensitivity that depends strongly on operating conditions. It is shown that two descriptor models are necessary to describe the thermochemistry of adsorbates on nanoparticles. Multiscale and accelerated methods for computing free energies in solution, while accounting explicitly for solvent effects in catalytic reactions, are briefly touched upon with the acid catalyzed dehydration of fructose in water as an example. The above methods are illustrated with several reactions, such as the CO oxidation on Au; the hydrogenation of ethylene and hydrogenolysis of ethane on Pt; the glycerol decomposition to syngas on Pt-based materials; the NH3 decomposition on single metals and bimetallics; and the dehydration of fructose in water. Finally, we provide a summary and outlook.
Highlights A perspective on multiscale modeling of mechanism development.  Estimation of thermochemistry and kinetics via hierarchical multiscale methods.  Computation-driven catalyst design and discovery of materials with emergent behavior.  Uncertainty on catalyst design, particle effects, and structure sensitivity of reactions.  Free energies in solution and solvent effects in catalytic reactions.
1. Introduction
With the interest for more energy efficient, selective and renewable chemical processes intensifying, the need to control chemical reactions at the molecular level is also rapidly increasing. Controlling reactions at the molecular level depends critically on our ability to describe the elementary reaction steps involved in a chemical transformation from reactants to products and assign a rate constant to each individual step. With this knowledge, one can predict the work-flow of a chemical transformation and develop methods and catalysts to direct a chemical reaction toward a lower energy direction (easier or faster) and/or more selective pathways.
While the above goal has been the dream of the catalysis community for the past century, computational techniques have been lagging spectroscopic characterization. Also, experiments conducted on ideal catalysts (single crystals), under well-defined conditions (ultrahigh vacuum (UHV)), have not been bridged with those on supported catalysts working under realistic operating conditions. These well-known materials and pressure gaps have seriously impeded progress in heterogeneous catalysis driven by fundamentals. With the advent of abundant computational power and more accurate methods over the past decade, first-principles techniques, and specifically Density-Functional Theory (DFT), are revolutionizing our thinking of catalytic reactions. Still, our ability to describe, and eventually control, chemical transformations by first-principles modeling, at the molecular level, is hindered by multiple challenges.
In this paper, we provide a perspective on multiscale modeling for the development and simulation of catalytic reaction mechanisms. First, we provide an overview of the length and time scales in reacting systems, of the objectives of multiscale modeling, and of the challenges in first-principles modeling of chemical reactions and reactors. We also underscore the need for detailed reaction models by way of a few examples. The greater part of the review then focuses on mean-field microkinetic models and their hierarchical multiscale refinement. Emerging topics in computation-driven catalyst design and uncertainty quantification are also reviewed. Recent developments in ab initio kinetic Monte Carlo simulations are then presented, and structure-dependent microkinetic models are discussed. New methods to describe catalytic chemistry in solution are outlined and an example from the homogeneous catalytic dehydrogenation of fructose to 5-hydroxylmethylfurfural is summarized. Finally, concluding remarks and an outlook are given.
2. Overview of multiscale modeling of chemical reactions and reactors
2.1. Scales in reacting systems
There are at least three scales encountered in a chemical reactor ( Fig. 1 ). At the microscopic, or electronic, length and time scales (bottom of Fig. 1 ), adsorbatecatalyst and adsorbateadsorbate interactions determine the potential energy surface and thus the free energy barrier and entropy of the chemical transformation. A coarse description at this scale is the free energy of transformation from reactants to the transition state (TS) and then to products. The thermal rate constant is a convenient way of coarse-graining the information from this scale, and quantum mechanical methods are ideally suited, at least in principle (see below), for this task.
Download: Download high-res image (281KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. Schematic of three scales and a possible hierarchy of models at each scale. At each scale, additional models may exist. The accuracy and cost increase from left to right. Acronyms from top to bottom: PRF, plug flow reactor; CSTR, continuously stirred tank reactor; ODE, ordinary differential equation; PDE, partial differential equation; CG-KMC, coarse-grained kinetic Monte Carlo; KMC, kinetic Monte Carlo; UBI-QEP, unity bond index-quadratic exponential potential; TST, transition state theory; DFT, density functional theory; GA, group additivity; BEP, BrnstedEvansPolanyi; QM/MM, quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics.Given a list of reaction events and their rate constants, adsorbates arrange themselves in spatial configurations or patterns, as a result of the collective behavior of the ensemble of all species. At this mesoscopic scale (middle of Fig. 1 ), the collective behavior has to be averaged over length and time scales that are much larger than the characteristic length and time scale of the underlying pattern  or what is known as the correlation length  in order to compute the reaction rate. This can be achieved via non-equilibrium statistical mechanics techniques. Due to the fast vibrations of adsorbates with respect to the reaction time scales, adsorbates are typically thermally equilibrated, and reaction events can be thought of as rare events, i.e., over the time scale of a chemical reaction, the system loses its memory and can be approximated as a Markov process. The kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) method is the most commonly used statistical technique for averaging spatiotemporal events and providing the reaction rate ( Bortz et al., 1975 , Chatterjee and Vlachos, 2007 ).At the macroscopic (reactor) scale (top of Fig. 1 ), there are gradients in fluid flow, concentration and temperature fields over scales that are typically much larger than the spatial inhomogeneity of the patterns of adsorbates. As a result, the reaction rate computed at the mesoscopic scale can be applied over a certain length scale (discretization size) of a chemical reactor. Due to spatial macroscopic gradients, the rate has to be evaluated at all discretization points of the macroscopic (reactor) domain.
At each scale, computation can be done with various methods whose accuracy and cost vary. As one moves from left to right of the graph at each scale, the accuracy increases at the expense of computational intensity. Thus, at each scale, one can think of a hierarchy of methods. The accuracy of these methods does not vary in a continuous fashion, i.e., each method is different. Typical methods are depicted in Fig. 1 . Hierarchy adds a new dimension to multiscaling: at each length and time scale, more than one model can be employed in the same simulation scheme, in order to refine the results or calculate error estimates.
2.2. Objectives of multiscale modeling
The early vision of multiscale modeling was rooted in the bottom-up modeling strategy for predicting the macroscopic (reactor) behavior from microscopic scale calculations ( Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 ), as shown in Fig. 2 . This approach naturally leads to process design, control, and optimization with unprecedented accuracy. It departs significantly from the empirical process design and control strategies of the past, whereby fitting to experimental data was essential to model building.
Download: Download high-res image (241KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Schematic of various models operating at various scales. Redrawn from Vlachos (2005 ).Due to the disparity in length and time scales over which various tools apply ( Fig. 2 ), the straightforward, if not the only, way to reach macroscopic scales is by coupling models describing phenomena at different scales. Over the past 15 years or so, several algorithms have been developed to achieve this bi-directional or two-way coupling (the branches of multiscale modeling are discussed elsewhere ( Vlachos, 2005 ). The structural difference of models across scales (continuum vs. discrete and deterministic vs. stochastic) leads naturally to hybrid simulations, whose numerical solution poses new challenges and opportunities for multiscale mathematics. The hybrid multiscale integration algorithm ( Christofides, 2001 , Drews et al., 2004 , Lou and Christofides, 2003 , Rusli et al., 2004 , Vlachos, 1997 ), the equation-free approach ( Gear et al., 2003 , Kevrekidis et al., 2004 ) and the heterogeneous multiscale method ( E et al., 2003 ) are typical names and variations of coupling algorithms.The aforementioned coupled multiscale simulations have been applied to prototype systems where the emphasis was on method development rather than on the physical systems themselves. As a result, the models were oversimplified. In catalysis, the majority of hybrid multiscale models with detailed mechanisms has tacitly ignored the coupling i.e., only one-way coupling was considered whereby the smaller scale model passed information to the next (larger) scale model. One of the most physically interesting, one-directional multiscale models for reactions in zeolites has recently been reported by Hansen et al. (2010 ). Some examples of two-directional coupling have also been reported ( Makeev et al., 2002 , Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 ).Molecular modeling, such as molecular dynamics (MD) and kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC), is often limited to short length and time (mesoscopic) scales. Over the past 10 years, various coarse-graining and acceleration methods have been developed to enable molecular simulation of larger systems. The coarse-grained KMC method reviewed herein is such an example. Accelerated MD methods are briefly discussed below ( Section 11 ). Similar to hybrid multiscale modeling, most coarse-grained KMC and to some extent MD simulations have again focused on method development. The coupling of mesoscopic and macroscopic scales of chemical reactors is covered in Raimondeau and Vlachos (2002) and Vlachos (1997 ) and will not be further discussed here. Instead our focus will be on the micro- and meso-scales where several exciting developments have taken place over the past decade.Coupling of models across scales enables top-down modeling whereby one defines optimization targets (e.g., maximum activity and/or selectivity) and then searches for materials with suitable electronic properties. This opens up exciting opportunities for product design, rather than just process design ( Vlachos et al., 2006 ). In Section 6 we discuss how this concept is put to use for computation-driven catalyst design, especially of materials exhibiting emergent behavior.
2.3. Challenges in multiscale modeling of catalytic systems
Multiscale modeling of reactions and reactors imposes multiple challenges, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3 . The first challenge in describing heterogeneous catalytic chemistry via first principles is that phenomena involving chemical reactions and reactors are multiscale in nature ( Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 , Vlachos, 2005 ). Individual reaction events take place on specific sites of a catalyst, at the sub-nanometer length scale and over picosecond to nanosecond time scales. Yet, the macroscopic behavior is determined by the collective behavior of reaction events (ensemble average), which emerges over length scales ranging from nanometers to millimeters and evolves over time scales from picoseconds to milliseconds or longer. Internal and external transport processes further complicate the observed behavior by creating an intimate coupling between microscopic events and macroscopic reactor processes. As a result, first principles methods alone cannot predict common experimental observables (e.g., reaction rates, selectivity, coverage of intermediates, etc.).
Download: Download high-res image (806KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. Overview of challenges in the multiscale modeling of catalytic systems and specific examples. In the many body effects, selected configurations (top view) in the presence of 0, 1, and 3 oxygen atoms for the 1.2 H shift reaction (ethylene isomerization of CH2CH2CHCH3) and corresponding activation energy (kcal/mol) from periodic DFT calculations on Pt(111) indicate that the presence of co-adsorbates can strongly affect the reaction barriers. White: H atoms, gray: C atoms, red: O atoms. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) A second and often overlooked challenge is the many-body nature of a catalytic reaction. Unlike gas-phase reactions, where reaction events are a result of a bimolecular collision and associated energy transfer, the local environment of co-reactants in a surface reaction can have a profound effect on the speed of a transformation (catalyst activity) and the specific pathway it follows (catalyst selectivity). The local environment entails co-adsorbates or the specific arrangement of catalyst atoms in close proximity to the reactant pair. As a result, the parameterization of a rate constant with a simple Arrhenius form with constant parameters (pre-exponential, activation energy), as in gas-phase reactions, is generally inadequate for surface reactions. The functional dependence of kinetic rate constant parameters on coverage (e.g., linear dependence of activation energy on coverage) is a simplistic (mean-field) way of dealing with these many body effects that fundamentally does not address the challenge itself.Catalytic reactions exhibit intrinsic heterogeneity in both adsorbate distribution and catalyst sites. Adsorbate inhomogeneity is the result of intermolecular forces and/or chemical reactions and is manifested as spatiotemporal patterns of adsorbates with a characteristic length that depends on the chemical reaction and operating conditions. The p(2×2) adsorbate structure or the spatiotemporal patterns in CO oxidation are such examples ( Ertl, 1991 ). As a result, the adsorbates' distribution cannot be assumed uniform, even at a length scale that is small (pellet size or even smaller) compared to that of a chemical reactor, as typically done in the so called mean-field approximation. Catalyst inhomogeneity can be manifested in multiple ways ( Fig. 3 ). One example entails nanoparticles and clusters, consisting of distinctly different types of catalyst sites. Another example is a particle size distribution due to competition of nucleation and growth during synthesis. Such adsorbate and catalyst non-uniformities can span length scales from nanometer to millimeter and control macroscopic reaction rates at the pellet scale.Another challenge in modeling catalytic reactions arises from the multiphase nature of chemical reactions in condensed matter. Reactions carried out in solvents, such as aqueous reforming of biomass over noble metals or dehydration of fructose to hydroxyl methyl furfural in HCl, are strongly affected by the solvent. For example, the solvent can participate in the TS, e.g., via hydrogen bonding or even in the reaction itself, e.g., via solvent-assisted proton transfer, and affect the reaction mechanism or the reaction rate. As a result, free energies rather than energies in the presence of explicit solvent are necessary for computing reaction rate constants. This task requires conformation sampling and averaging using statistical mechanics. MD is an ideally suited method for this task, but large free energy barriers render classical and ab initio MD methods impractical. Similarly, the catalyst support can often strongly affect reactivity by modifying the catalyst nanoparticle size and shape, via creating interfacial support/metal sites, and by electronic coupling, such as electron exchange with the metal.Finally, it is commonplace to assume that the catalyst is static over the time scale of a chemical reaction. In reality, the catalyst is dynamic in response to its local environment, such as the gases and adsorbates present, the temperature, the pressure, etc. Catalyst dynamics, such as reconstruction and isomerization between various conformations, maybe more common than we currently think, but their effect on the kinetics of catalytic reactions is poorly understood.
3. Closed-form empirical kinetic models
Here we give a brief overview of the types of empirical reaction models discussed in Raimondeau and Vlachos (2002 ) to underscore the need for detailed surface reaction mechanisms. The connection between multiscaling and detailed reaction mechanisms becomes transparent later.
3.1. Power-law kinetics
In early days, the power-law functional form was the most common type of rate expression:(1) Eq.
(1) estimates the rate using an effective rate constant, reaction orders, and activation energy. Despite its fundamental limitations and lack of predictive power, power-law rate expressions are still commonly used in reactor and process design since they involve a small number of parameters that can easily be regressed to a limited number of experimental data. Given its limited value, this type of model is not further discussed here.
3.2. LangmuirHinshelwoodHougenWatson (LHHW) models
A LHHW model starts with a detailed surface reaction mechanism. Subsequently, a priori assumptions about fast and slow processes are made. For example, it is commonly assumed that adsorptiondesorption processes of reactants and products are in partial equilibrium (PE) and one of the surface reaction steps is the rate-determining step (RDS). Upon development of a closed form rate expression, one examines whether the rate expression provides a qualitative description of the experimental data. If not, a different set of assumptions is made and a new rate expression is developed (an iterative process). If the model appears to qualitatively capture experimental data, the rate and equilibrium constants of the LHHW expression are fitted using (a limited number of) experimental data from a single kind of experiment, e.g., ignition or conversion and selectivity data.Due to their empirical nature, multiple rate expressions can describe the same data with similar statistics, i.e., the rate expressions are not unique (rate expression multiplicity ( Prasad et al., 2009 )). In addition, multiple parameter values, which describe experimental data reasonably well, may exist for the same rate expression (rate constant multiplicity). Even when a rate expression reproduces the data reasonably well, it may describe the wrong physics (assumptions are incorrect) or the parameters may be physically unrealistic. Consequently, the model may be unable to predict underlying properties such as the most abundant surface intermediate (MASI), which controls blocking of catalyst sites, or quantities such as the effective reaction orders. Finally, LHHW rate expressions, even if correct, are typically limited to one regime of operating conditions where the rate changes monotonically with respect to a parameter. They cannot describe changes in the RDS with varying operating conditions, often manifested with maxima or minima in the response (e.g., activity).In order to illustrate the aforementioned limitations, we provide some examples. In the steam reforming of methane over Ni catalyst, the well-known Xu and Froment model ( Xu and Froment, 1989 ), shown in Table 1 , is used. The model indicates a complex dependence on concentration of reactant species. In contrast, experiments conducted under kinetically relevant, well-controlled conditions indicate that the overall reaction is fairly simple first-order in methane and zero-order in steam ( Wei and Iglesia, 2004 ). In addition, the reaction rate and its dependence on pressure developed by Numaguchi and Kikuchi (1988 ) (also shown in Table 1 ) differ significantly from those of Xu and Froment, seriously questioning the validity of these empirical rate expressions.Table 1. Overall reactions used to describe methane steam reforming. The reactions are catalytic combustion, steam reforming, watergas shift and reforming combined with watergas shift reaction. Kinetic rate expressions from ( Xu and Froment, 1989 ) and ( Numaguchi and Kikuchi, 1988 ).Reaction Rate equation ( Xu and Froment, 1989 ) Rate equation ( Numaguchi and Kikuchi, 1988 )
CH4+2O2CO2+2H2O
CH4+H2OCO+3H2
CO+H2OCO2+H2
CH4+2H2OCO2+4H2
As a last example, a LHHW model was recently developed for the partial oxidation of methane over a Rh/a-Al2O3 catalyst ( Tavazzi et al., 2006 ). Even though the model describes data fairly well over a range of operating conditions, the parameters are not physically relevant, as shown in Table 2 . These examples underscore the fact that although LHHW models are capable of fitting experimental data reasonably well, the fundamental mechanisms may still be elusive and the physical significance of parameters can be questionable.
Table 2. Comparison of estimated from fitting and literature (either DFT or experimental) values for heats of adsorption. Since the coverage of H2O and OH on Rh under typical conditions is low, the fitted heat of adsorption of H2O (second column) differs considerably from that of DFT and experiment (third column). Similarly, even if the coverage of CO on Rh is high, there is significant discrepancy between fitted (second column) and experimental and DFT values (third column).
Surface species Heat of adsorption (Q) from fitting (kcal/mol); from Tavazzi et al. (2006 ) Heat of adsorption (Q) from experiments or DFT (kcal/mol); see Mhadeshwar and Vlachos (2005b )
H2O 39.5 10.8+4.5
25θOH CO 6.2 38.5+17θCO+3.7θH
4. Mean-field microkinetic modeling
Given the limitations of LHHW models, it is becoming increasingly clear that detailed surface reaction mechanisms need to be developed. The term microkinetic model implies the use of a detailed reaction mechanism describing elementary-like processes occurring on a catalyst. Detailed reaction mechanisms have been used in gas-phase reactors, such as flames and chemical vapor deposition reactors, for decades. Detailed catalytic reaction models have been reported as early as in 1986 and a few papers have appeared thereafter ( Hickman and Schmidt, 1993 , Oh et al., 1986 ). The microkinetic modeling framework was formalized by the book of Dumesic et al. (1993 ). In these models, one lays down all relevant elementary steps and solves the mathematical problem without any assumptions about a RDS, PE of reactions, quasi-steady state (QSS) assumption of intermediates, or a specific MASI.Unlike power-law expressions, which are regressed to a specific range of experimental conditions, detailed kinetic models are predictive over an extended range of experimental conditions ( Prasad et al., 2009 ). Ultimately, this sequence of elementary reactions gives fundamental insights into surface intermediates, reaction rates, reaction rate sensitivity to specific model parameters, and can be used as a predictive tool for reactor optimization. General chemical kinetic codes, such as CHEMKIN ( Coltrin et al., 1991 , Kee et al., 1991a ), used for detailed reaction mechanism studies, enable a straightforward reaction mechanism implementation.Such implementations have the great advantages of being widely applicable and modular. Conventionally, a mechanism containing elementary steps can be applied to various chemistries that contain similar reactant, product and reactive intermediates ( Gokhale et al., 2004 ). For example, the watergas shift reaction, the CO oxidation, and the selective oxidation of CO share several elementary steps. In addition, one can build mechanisms of larger species from those of smaller ones, making mechanism-building easier. For example, the steam reforming of ethane encompasses also the elementary steps of methane steam reforming and of the watergas shift reaction.
In the first generation of microkinetic models (up to the late 1990s), the rate constants were fit to experimental data. The lack of methods for estimating a large number of parameters limited the use of microkinetic modeling and confidence in their predictive ability abated. Over the past decade (2000s), semi-empirical methods offered an inexpensive and fairly accurate approach for estimating activation energies of simple adsorbates participating in small reaction networks. This approach worked well for small molecules, such as CO, NH3 and CH4. The abundant computer power available nowadays has made possible the estimation of rate constants through first-principles methods, and in particular density functional theory (DFT). A summary of estimation methods is shown at the bottom of Fig. 1 .
Table 3 depicts examples of recently published microkinetic models developed using different estimation methods, along with their applications.
Table 3. Examples of microkinetic models in recent literature.Application Model type/method (see Fig. 1 ) Model description Reference Fundamental mechanistic insights DFT DFT-based NO oxidation on Pt (emphasis on coverage dependent model parameters) Getman and Schneider (2010 ) DFT DFT-based CH4 steam reforming on Ni (thorough implementation of statistical mechanics for temperature dependent kinetic parameters) Blaylock et al. (2009 ) DFT DFT-based watergas shift mechanism on Pt Grabow et al. (2008 ) DFT and BOC NH3 decomposition on Ru (applying DFT calculated coverage dependent atomic binding energies into semi-empirical methods) Mhadeshwar et al. (2004 ) BOC Hydrocarbon-based selective catalytic reduction of NOx on Ag Mhadeshwar et al. (2009 )
Catalyst design DFT, linear scaling and BEP BEP and linear scaling relationships. CH4 steam reforming activity across transition metals Jones et al. (2008b ) DFT and BOC NH3 decomposition on several metals (uses model to find optimal N binding energy) Hansgen et al. (2010 ) DFT Ethanol synthesis from syngas on Rh (sensitivity analysis is used to probe for catalyst promoters) Choi and Liu (2009 ) DFT and BEP CO oxidation activity of nanoparticles (simplified model to explain activity of gold nanoparticles at low temperatures and pressures) Falsig et al. (2008 ) DFT, linear scaling and BEP Watergas shift model with DFT derived linear free energy relationships to probe the CO and O binding energy phase space for active catalysts Schumacher et al. (2005 )
Reactor design BOC and experimental tuning CH4 reforming chemistries on Rh (multiscale refinement and adjustments to predict experimental results; derived reduced rate expression) Maestri et al. (2008 ) Experimental tuning CH4 partial oxidation over Pt microkinetic model inserted into CFD model Quiceno et al. (2006 ) Mean-field models are based on the assumption of a uniform distribution of adsorbate and catalyst sites. They couple mechanistic energetics with reaction rates and species concentrations, and thus, they link fundamental quantum mechanical and statisticalmechanical calculations to reactor scale phenomena.
A reaction is represented as , where vk is the stoichiometric coefficient of species Sk. The reaction rate of an elementary, irreversible reaction follows mass action kinetics as follows:(2) Here ki is the forward rate constant reaction i, Ai is the pre-exponential factor, ΔEi is the activation energy, kB is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature, and Cj is the reactant concentration. This parameterization of surface reaction rates follows the same logic as that of bimolecular gas-phase reactions, i.e., the rate constant is taken to be independent of the local environment in which a reaction takes place. Due to the many-body nature of catalytic reactions, this is a major conceptual limitation. In this section, we follow this common assumption and describe corrections in later sections.Kinetic models used to describe wide temperature ranges often employ the modified Arrhenius equation. The pre-exponential factor is written as, e.g., ( Maestri et al., 2008 , Maestri et al., 2009 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005c , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Salciccioli et al., 2011a ):(3) This modified form is used in the thermodynamic ( Kee et al., 1991a ) and kinetic modeling tool CHEMKIN ( Coltrin et al., 1991 , Kee et al., 1991a ) and provides flexibility for fitting β of sensitive reactions to experimental data or for temperature dependent pre-exponential factors calculated from transition state theory (TST). As alluded to above, TST relates rate constants with the Gibbs free energy of reactant, product and transition states (4) (5) Eq.
(4) describes the irreversible elementary reaction rate constant of reaction i (ki) as a function of the change in Gibbs free energy from reactant to transition state (ΔGi), and further as a function of change in entropy (ΔSi) and enthalpy (ΔHi) from reactant to transition state. An additional factor consisting of the Boltzmann constant, absolute temperature and Planck's constant (kBT/h) approximates the contribution from the frequency associated with the negative curvature of the potential energy surface in the direction of the reaction coordinate ( Houston, 2001 ).Fig. 4 a shows a schematic of thermochemical property evolution along the reaction coordinate of an elementary reaction. The reaction coordinate is the arc-length along the path of minimum potential energy from reactant to product. Eq. (5) gives the equilibrium constant as a function of free energy of reaction (first equality) and entropy and enthalpy of reaction (second equality).Download: Download high-res image (210KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Schematic of sample thermochemical property evolution with elementary reaction progression (a). Diagram of thermochemical property changes in the simple ABC surface reaction mechanism (b).
4.1. Thermodynamic consistency in microkinetic modeling
An important aspect of microkinetic model development that is often overlooked when combining the kinetic and thermodynamic parameters of individual species and elementary reactions into a mechanism is thermodynamic consistency. The importance of ensuring thermodynamic consistency in kinetic mechanism development cannot be overstated. First, the underlying equilibrium constants of reaction mechanisms are directly tied to thermodynamic quantities. If these equilibrium constants are incorrect, predictions pertaining to equilibrium limited processes will be inaccurate. Secondly, under non-isothermal conditions inconsistencies between the kinetic parameters and thermodynamic properties result in incorrect solutions of the energy balance and thus of temperatures and compositions ( Mhadeshwar et al., 2003 ).
The forward (f) and backward (b) kinetic parameters are related to the equilibrium constant as follows:(6) Thermodynamic constraints were described comprehensively by Dumesic and co-workers in four equations ( Dumesic et al., 1993 ). First, thermodynamic consistency of individual elementary reactions implies that:(7) (8) Here, ΔEi,b is the backward activation energy, ΔEi,f is the forward activation energy, and ΔHi is the standard enthalpy change of reaction. Ai,b is the reverse pre-exponential factor, Ai,f is the forward pre-exponential factor, ΔGi is the change in standard Gibbs free energy of reaction, T is the absolute temperature, and R is the ideal gas constant ( Dumesic et al., 1993 ). The term in parenthesis is the equivalent of the standard change in entropy of reaction (ΔSi) divided by R.A net reaction, starting from gaseous reactants and ending with gaseous products ( Fig. 4 b), can often be expressed as a linear combination of several reactions. The following equations then apply:(9) (10) In Eqs.
(9) ,(10) ( Dumesic et al., 1993 ), the subscript net denotes the change in the thermodynamic state properties from net reactants to net products. The factor of σi denotes the coefficient of elementary reaction i in the linear combination composing the desired net reaction. If one further considers a gas-phase reaction having the same stoichiometry as the net reaction just noted, a thermodynamic cycle is formed, along which free energies and entropies are conserved (Hess's law).Fig. 4 b illustrates the interplay between the gas and surface-phase thermochemical properties of gas and surface intermediates and transition states for the simplified ABC mechanism. ζ denotes any thermochemical property involved in rate and equilibrium constant evaluation (H, S, G). In Fig. 4 b property changes associated with the elementary gas-phase reactions AB and BC are Δζ1,gas and Δζ2,gas, respectively, and for the overall gas-phase reaction AC is Δζ3,gas=Δζ1,gas+Δζ2,gas. If not experimentally known, these gas-phase properties are often calculated from high level ab initio calculations (accurate within a couple of kcal/mol) described elsewhere ( Baboul et al., 1999 , Curtiss et al., 2007 , Raghavachari et al., 1997a , Raghavachari et al., 1997b , Wang and Brezinsky, 1998 ). While these methods have recently been shown to be accurate for energies of transition metal-containing molecules ( Mayhall et al., 2009 ), the expense associated with calculating properties for adsorbates on several metal atom clusters for entire reaction mechanisms is unreasonable. For this reason, generalized gradient approximation (GGA) functionals are commonly employed for calculating structures and properties of adsorbatemetal configurations. This type of method strikes a reasonable compromise between accuracy and cost, and satisfies the uniform density limit (which is an important constraint for predicting bulk metal properties) ( Sholl and Steckel, 2009 ). It is also important to note that distinct GGA functionals are developed for specific calculations and for specific types of molecules. Venturing outside of these limitations will result in questionable results ( Sholl and Steckel, 2009 ). Additionally, when considering the most common computational methods used (which balance accuracy and expense) for surface-phase vs. gas-phase thermochemical properties, the accuracy of surface thermochemistry is lower than that of the gas-phase thermochemistry. So while Eqs. (6) ,(7) ,(8) ,(9) ,(10) that govern the thermodynamic constraints of the kinetic parameters in microkinetic models (shown in Fig. 4 b) are exact, the difficulty arises in their implementation.
4.1.1. Examples of model thermodynamic consistency and violation
To illustrate this difficulty in implementation, parameters of a subset of the watergas shift chemistry are shown in Table 4 (taken from the thermodynamically consistent model of Mhadeshwar and Vlachos (2007 )). Specifically, this is the reaction pathway from CO and H2O, through the carboxyl intermediate (COOH), to form CO2 and H2. The reaction is slightly exothermic, and thus thermodynamically limited at higher temperatures. This makes the thermodynamic consistency of watergas shift mechanism extremely important in terms of being able to predict equilibrium conversion accurately. Using the subset of reactions below, the resulting equilibrium constant of the watergas shift reaction (CO+H2OCO2+H2O) is calculated from the linear combination of all seven reactions (the product with Ki calculated from Eqs. (3) ,(4) ,(6) ). At 300 K, KWGS calculated from this catalytic cycle is 109,100. This value agrees reasonably with that obtained from NIST gas-phase thermochemical properties ( Burgess, 2009 ) of 93,500. The slight discrepancy arises from the implementation of the thermodynamic constraints. Since irreversible reactions were defined (one forward and one backward for each elementary reaction), exact thermodynamic consistency at all temperatures is difficult to ensure; relative tolerances result in errors that are amplified due to the exponential relationship between Gibbs free energy and the equilibrium constant (Eq. (5) ). This results in a small (15%) error in KWGS at 300 K with respect to the NIST value.
Table 4. Arrhenius parameters for a subset of the watergas shift chemistry.
Empty Cell Elementary reaction Pre-exponential factor (1/s) β ΔEi (kcal/mol) ΔEi,r×n b (kcal/mol)
1 CO+CO 1.00
a
0.000 0.0 42.0
COCO+ 5.66×1015 0.500 40.0
2 H2O+H2O 0.108
a
1.162 0.0 6.2
H2OH2O+ 2.03×1012 1.372 10.0
3 H2O+H+OH 9.36×1012 0.118 17.8 16.1
H+OHH2O+ 9.99×1012 1.049 13.5
4 CO+OHCOOH+ 1.19×109 0.024 19.1 10.4
COOH+CO+OH 8.43×108 0.024 5.3
5 COOH+CO2+H 1.06×1011 0.549 1.0 0.2
CO2+HCOOH+ 9.45×1010 0.549 2.4
6 2HH2+2 7.95×1012 0.001 19.8 19.6
H2+22H 0.129
a
0.858 0.0
7 CO2CO2+ 3.63×1012 0.250 3.6 2.5
CO2+CO2 0.195
a
0.250 0.0
All Arrhenius values taken from Mhadeshwar and Vlachos (2007 ). a Value shown is a sticking coefficient (unitless). b Values for ΔE are DFT numbers taken from ( Grabow et al., 2008 ) (not corrected for ZPE).As an example of violation of the thermodynamic constraints, consider altering one reaction's activation energy by 2 kcal/mol in order to better describe experimental data in a kinetically limited regime. The adjustment of a single activation energy of irreversible reactions of a thermodynamically consistent mechanism leads to thermodynamic violations. For example, by increasing the ΔEi of the forward reaction 4 (CO+OHCOOH+) from 19.1 to 21.1 kcal/mol, the KWGS calculated from the catalytic cycle is 3800. This value is dramatically different from that calculated from the NIST database and leads to predicting concentration with considerable error in equilibrium-limited regimes. The disturbance of equilibrium constants from their correct values (as seen in the example) can be avoided if kinetic parameters are adjusted in a pairwise fashion for irreversibly defined reactions.Next, we use the same WGS mechanism to illustrate the importance of constraining surface DFT calculations (less accurate) to gas-phase thermochemistry (more accurate) in kinetic model development. As an example, reaction energies from DFT calculations ( Grabow et al., 2008 ) are shown in the last column of Table 4 . Using these energies as the Gibbs free energy (neglecting zero-point energy (ZPE) corrections, temperature corrections at 300 K and the PV correction, as often done in the literature), the KWGS at 300 K is 1.1×1015, several orders of magnitude larger than the NIST calculated equilibrium constant given above. This error in KWGS corresponds to a difference in ΔGrxn of 13 kcal/mol. Use of these uncorrected DFT energies in a microkinetic model would, in this case, over-predict the conversion for equilibrium-limited conditions. While simplistic, this example demonstrates the necessity of enforcing Eqs. (6) ,(7) ,(8) ,(9) ,(10) in kinetic mechanism development, even when using self-consistent DFT calculations.
4.1.2. Thermodynamic consistency through the adjustment of surface reaction properties
Thermodynamic consistency is straightforward to enforce when a single method is employed, but less so when a multitude of estimation-methods are employed. For first-principle or semi-empirical-based microkinetic models, the major difficulty with thermodynamic consistency is merging gas-phase properties with surface properties. The former are computed using ab initio, high level theory and are considered to be exact (with an error of 12 kcal/mol). Additionally, constraining a mechanism to gas-phase properties avoids inconsistencies when combining multiple models that share gas-phase species. For example, one can build an ethane oxidation mechanism into a propane oxidation mechanism, as the C2 and C1 chemistry are submechanisms of the C3 mechanism. There are two major schools of thought on how to constrain the surface mechanism to gas-phase properties. The first centers on using adsorption properties as a basis set. This methodology is useful when integrating semi-empirical thermochemical property techniques or not having the resources to calculate partition functions for all surface intermediates and transition states.
(11) In Eq.
(11) , the surface species properties (ζi,surf) are defined through the corresponding gas-phase species and the change in state property associated with adsorption. This quantity can also be a function of temperature or surface coverages. Upon defining the thermophysical properties of adsorbates, the change in a state function of surface reactions (Δζ1,surf, Δζ2,surf, and Δζ3,surf in Fig. 4 b) can easily be related to those of the gas-phase reactions (Δζ1,gas, Δζ2,gas, and Δζ3,gas in Fig. 4 b) and the adsorption properties of the intermediates (ΔζA,ads, ΔζB,ads, and ΔζC,ads, as shown in Fig. 4 b).In 2003, a methodology for ensuring thermodynamic consistency was presented by Mhadeshwar et al. which involved constraining kinetic parameters by the use of a linearly independent basis set of elementary reactions ( Mhadeshwar et al., 2003 ). This approach essentially connects the thermochemical properties of surface species to the thermochemical properties of gas species through the forward and reverse kinetic parameters of the linearly independent reactions. It was suggested that the difference between originally calculated reaction properties and newly defined reaction properties be divided equally between the forward and reverse rate constant ( Mhadeshwar et al., 2003 ) (this is not a unique way). Building on this notion, methods were later developed to divide this error between the forward and reverse rate constants using as criterion the proximity of the transition state to reactants or products. In these cases, a proximity factor ( Grabow et al., 2008 ) or a modified bond index (used in association with unity bond index-quadratic exponential potential (UBI-QEP) based models, see below) ( Maestri and Reuter, 2011 , Maestri et al., 2009 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 ) is defined and is related to the location of the transition state along the reaction coordinate:(12) Eq.
(12) , taken from a recent watergas shift microkinetic model ( Grabow et al., 2008 ), describes this implementation. The activation energy used in the microkinetic model (ΔEi) is the DFT calculated activation energy, plus the proximity factor (ω) multiplied by the difference between the defined heat of surface reaction (ΔHi,surf) through the gas-phase thermodynamic loop and the energy of reaction from the DFT calculation (ΔEi,DFT). A similar equation can be used to adjust the entropic terms (13) In Eq.
(13) , the pre-exponential factor used is the TST calculated pre-exponential factor (Ai,TST) multiplied by a correction term that includes the proximity factor and the difference in entropy of reaction of the original system and the one constrained to the gas-phase species. One advantage of this type of scheme is the convenient implementation into commercial kinetic modeling software. Thermochemical properties can be stored in a NASA polynomial database (Eqs. (14) ,(15) ,(16) ), as in CHEMKIN ( Kee et al., 1991a ). Then, one can easily adjust the coefficients to convert the properties of a gas-phase species into those of its corresponding surface-phase intermediate (14) (15) (16) Coefficients a1-a7 are those of the gaseous species, often available in gas-phase thermodynamic databases, such as that of NIST. Eqs.
(17) ,(18) show the adjustments needed to define the properties of surface species i (index dropped above for simplicity), based on the corresponding gas species and the change in entropy and enthalpy upon adsorption. It should be noted that to account for coverage, and to some extent temperature, effects, one would need to extend CHEMKIN ( Kee et al., 1991b ) so the last coefficients are temperature and coverage dependent (17) (18) Here and are the heat and entropy of adsorption of species i, which are generally functions of temperature T and coverage of all species, θj. This method is easily implemented. However, one drawback is the adjustment of competing surface reaction activation energies, which will be discussed in the following example. While not necessarily accurate in an absolute sense, one advantage of periodic DFT calculations for energetic profiles is the high relative accuracy ( Blaylock et al., 2009 , Sholl and Steckel, 2009 ). The use of the proximity factor for adjustment of reaction properties can cancel out this benefit from using DFT energies.
As an example, Eq.
(12) is used to adjust two competing reactions for ethanol decomposition on Pd(111): CH3CH2OHCH3CHOH+H and CH3CH2OHCH2CH2OH+H (19) Based on Eq.
(19) , the heat of surface reaction i in Eq.
(12) is defined based on gas-phase heats of formation (Hj,gasf,298), the heat of chemisorption (Qj) and the stoichiometric coefficient (νj) for each reaction intermediate j. Taking DFT data from Li et al. (2009 ) and gas-phase thermochemical data from Dyke et al. (1997 ), Table 5 shows the application of Eq.
(12) to the first dehydrogenation reactions for ethanol on Pd(111). The DFT barriers for decomposition to CH3CHOH or CH2CH2OH are similar (21.3 vs. 21.9 kcal/mol), which would imply competition between reactions with comparable rates. Once the thermodynamic correction (Eq. (12) ) is implemented, the barrier for CH2CH2OH formation becomes 5 kcal/mol lower than the barrier for CH3CHOH formation. In this case, the enforcement of thermodynamic consistency through adsorption properties makes the relative magnitude of rate constants depart from that of the DFT calculations.
Table 5. Adjustment in activation energy based on Eq.
(12) for competitive dehydrogenation reactions of ethanol on Pd(111).
Parameter (kcal/mol) CH3CH2OHCH3CHOH+H CH3CH2OCH2CH2OH+H ΔHi,surf 2.1 3.6 ΔEi,rxn,DFT 2.3 11.0 ΔEi,DFT 21.3 21.9 ΔEi 21.1 16.4 DFT data taken from Li et al. (2009 ). Gas-phase thermochemical data taken from Dyke et al. (1997 ). For this example ω is set equal to 0.75 reflecting a moderately late transition state.
4.1.3. Thermodynamic consistency through the adjustment of adsorption properties
The above problem is avoided if we use another thermodynamic consistency method, which involves adjusting adsorption/desorption reaction energetics (Δζi,ads) to a self-consistent surface mechanism and the properties of gas-phase species. While the first method discussed adjusts surface reaction energies to constrain to gas-phase and adsorption/desorption reaction properties (Δζi,ads and Δζj,gas are constant), this method instead alters adsorption/desorption reaction energetics (Δζi,surf and Δζj,gas are constant). We recommend this method when a surface reaction mechanism is fully defined from first-principle DFT calculations. As discussed by Blaylock et al. the accuracy associated with surface reaction energies is most likely higher than that of adsorption/desorption energies, because reaction energy calculations benefit from partial cancellation of errors between the bonds that are formed and broken ( Blaylock et al., 2009 ). In this methodology, the absolute energy of surface species and transition states should be defined by specific gas-phase references.This second adsorption-based method can also be incorporated in CHEMKIN ( Kee et al., 1991a ), albeit in a less straightforward way than the previous method. First, thermochemical properties of adsorbed intermediates must be regressed into NASA polynomials. Second, pre-exponential factors and activation energies ( Coltrin et al., 1991 , Kee et al., 1991a ) must be defined such that the transition states' thermochemical properties (relative to reactant thermochemical properties) are satisfied through forward rate constants. The temperature exponent β (Eq. (3) ) can be fitted to capture the full extent of the temperature dependence of the rate constant.As an illustration, Fig. 5 compares the two methods for the CH2+HCH3 reaction on Ni(111). DFT total energy and vibrational frequency results reported by Blaylock et al. were used to calculate the rate constant using method 2. The same DFT information was also used, along with gas-phase thermochemical data from the NIST database ( Burgess, 2009 ), to extrapolate ΔH and ΔS at various temperatures using a proximity factor of 0.5. In this case, reasonable agreement is observed between the two methods. This is because the ΔHrxn computed from the thermodynamic loop through the gas-phase is somewhat similar to the ΔEDFT obtained from the DFT calculations (difference of 4.5 kcal/mol at 300 K). In a more extreme case, Grabow et al. found that the difference between ΔEDFT and ΔHrxn (calculated from the thermodynamic loop through the gas-phase intermediates) at 548 K for the COOH+OCO2+OH on Pt(111) is >40 kcal/mol. This would greatly change the DFT calculated activation barrier if method 1 was used.Download: Download high-res image (69KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Comparison of thermodynamic consistency enforcement methods for CH2+HCH3 reaction on Ni(111). Methods 1 and 2 refer to adjustment of surface reactions or adsorption properties, respectively, to match the surface thermochemistry to the gas-phase one (see text in Section 4.1 ). Information for assessment taken from Blaylock et al. (2009 ).The use of either thermodynamic consistency method depends greatly on the source of kinetic model's parameters. The following sections discuss various techniques to calculate and estimate thermodynamic and kinetic model parameters.
4.2. Elementary rate constant estimation from quantum mechanical calculations
This section summarizes recent methods for estimating rate constant parameters in Eq.
(4) . Rate constant parameterization follows an important general theme of scientific modeling in that the methods often balance calculation accuracy with expense. This section focuses on first-principle techniques followed by a next section where less accurate, albeit less expensive semi-empirical techniques are discussed.The details of quantum mechanical calculations relevant to catalytic kinetic mechanism development are beyond the scope of this review and are covered sufficiently elsewhere ( Sholl and Steckel, 2009 ). Instead, the focus of this section is on translating the output of modern quantum mechanical calculations into surface reaction rate constants. Within the context of mean-field kinetic models, the essential piece of information from a DFT calculation is the total energy (Etotal). The DFT total energy is a function of the number and type of atoms, volume of cell, and atom configuration. This total energy corresponds to a relative Helmoltz free energy at 0 K, neglecting ZPE. In the case of molecules adsorbed on a 2-dimensional surface, Reuter and Scheffler have shown through dimensional analysis that the PV contribution to the Gibbs free energy can be neglected and thus, the Hemholtz and Gibbs free energies are approximately equal in this scenario ( Reuter and Scheffler, 2002 ).
Additional information is necessary when ZPE and temperature corrections are included in the calculation of relative free energies of different reactant, product and transition states. Specifically, modes of vibration of the adsorbed species are necessary to compute these corrections. Fortunately, modern DFT codes can compute these frequencies accurately (20) The ZPE correction is a function of the sum of the product of , each vibrational frequency νi, and Planck's constant h ( Sholl and Steckel, 2009 ). Obviously, changes in the high frequencies, through reaction (see below) or isotopic labeling (changing the mass of atoms, specifically hydrogen, will alter the frequencies), can significantly affect the calculated energies. Specifically, dehydrogenation mechanisms are greatly affected by ZPE as the frequencies associated with hydrogen stretching modes are usually the largest.Fig. 6 shows the energies (referenced from isolated ethanol in vacuum and hydrogen adsorbed on separate slabs) of dehydrogenation products of ethanol on Pt(111) ( Salciccioli et al., 2010 ). The solid line is the energy directly from the DFT calculation. The dotted line includes ZPE corrections for each level of dehydrogenation. As dehydrogenation proceeds, ZPE corrections become more significant.Download: Download high-res image (128KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. Comparison of energy profile for initial dehydrogenation reactions of ethanol on Pt(111) (CH3CH2OHCH3CH2O+HCH3CHO+2HCH3CO+3H) with and without ZPE corrections. All energies taken with respect to gas-phase ethanol and hydrogen adsorbed on a separate slab (hydrogen is excluded from graph for clarity). Energetic values and vibrational frequencies taken from Salciccioli et al. (2010) .
4.2.1. Temperature dependent properties of intermediates and transition states
Vibrational frequency calculations are also needed for estimating state properties of species at finite temperatures via statistical mechanics ( McQuarrie, 1976 ). The problem then is to define appropriate degrees of freedom for surface species; to this end, several approaches exist.The simplest approach is to assume that all degrees of freedom are modes of vibration ( Jones et al., 2008b ). Another method, which takes into account the lateral movement of adsorbates, uses surface diffusion barriers along the directions parallel to the surface to estimate a spring constant used to calculate the two low frequencies associated with frustrated translation ( Gokhale et al., 2004 , Salciccioli et al., 2011b ).
(21) With this methodology the number of relaxed atoms (N) in the DFT calculation will dictate the number of vibrational frequencies (νi) to include in Eq.
(21) . This method allows for a partition function made up of only vibrational contributions from harmonic oscillators ( Blaylock et al., 2009 ). This is a low temperature/high binding energy simplification and assumes that barriers to diffusion and rotation are greater than the thermal energy.Recent work by Blaylock et al. has fully taken into account rotation and translational movement of more weakly bound surface species ( Blaylock et al., 2009 ). This particular method assesses the barrier of surface diffusion of an adsorbate, as well as the barrier of Z-axis rotation (normal to the surface), and compares these values to kBT. If the thermal energy exceeds these barriers, the vibrational modes that correspond to these frustrated translations and rotations are identified and replaced with the appropriate partition function ( Blaylock et al., 2009 ).
(22) (23) This method is useful for species that bind weakly to the surface (e.g., water or methane). Eq.
(22) is the partition function for the two translational degrees of freedom parallel to the surface and orthogonal to one another. In this expression, M is the mass of the adsorbate, N0 is the standard state number of binding sites per adsorbate and A is the surface area per binding site ( Blaylock et al., 2009 ). Eq.
(23) can be used as the rotational partition function for free rotations of weakly bound surface adsorbates. Additional information regarding the symmetry number (σs) and the moment of inertia (I) are needed for this contribution, both of which can be calculated from the geometry of the molecule. Given the definition of the partition function for each state, the thermochemical properties of each state can be computed, which can be used to compute Arrhenius parameters.
(24) The activation energy at a given temperature is equal to the change in enthalpy from the reactant state to the transition state (ΔH). It is important to note that in the case of surface species, enthalpy and internal energy are approximated as equal due to neglecting the PV contribution. ΔETotal represents the change in total energy of the DFT output from the reactant state to the transition state. The difference in ZPE correction between states, ΔZPE, is added to this value. Finally, a correction for temperature is added, ΔH0,T, which represents the change of enthalpy from 0 K to the desired temperature. This final term can be calculated given the selected partition function (it is a function of qvib, qrot and q2D-trans).For surface reactions, the pre-exponential factor is related to the activation entropy ΔS or the change in entropy from the reactant to the transition state ( Houston, 2001 ). Again, this quantity can be calculated given the specific partition function being used to describe these states.For adsorption, collision theory is often employed ( Blaylock et al., 2009 , Dumesic et al., 1993 , Grabow et al., 2008 , Kandoi et al., 2006 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Salciccioli et al., 2011a ), which typically contains the sticking coefficient si, which is the probability of a gas-phase species coming into contact with the surface and forming a bond. Thus, the pre-exponential for adsorption is given as:(25) As a last note, DFT calculations are performed at a certain coverage (e.g., 1/4 or 1/9 for a 2×2 or 3×3 unit cell, respectively). As a result, the thermochemistry and reaction barrier do not account for coverage (many-body) effects. They can be thought of as the low-coverage limit that corresponds to the unimolecular or bimolecular rate constants of gas-phase reactions. This idea will be discussed further in a later section (adsorbateadsorbate interactions).
4.3. Elementary rate constant estimation from semi-empirical methods
While semi-empirical methods are rarely as accurate as quantum mechanical approaches, they offer an inexpensive approach to estimating kinetic parameters. This can be extremely useful when mechanisms involve a large number of intermediates and reaction steps. The ability to accurately predict kinetic parameters from thermochemistry can greatly reduce the cost of model development and allow for fast screening of different catalytic surfaces.
Semi-empirical methods relate thermochemical properties of surface adsorbates to atomic properties or properties of smaller units that make up the adsorbate and draw on properties from the corresponding gas-phase molecule. Additionally, semi-empirical methods are often used to correlate thermochemical parameters with kinetic parameters.
4.3.1. Bond-order conservation (BOC) or unity bond index-quadratic exponential potential (UBI-QEP) method
A useful approach, applicable to small molecules, is the bond-order conservation (BOC) or unity bond index-quadratic exponential potential (UBI-QEP) technique ( Shustorovich and Sellers, 1998 ). This technique allows for the estimation of molecular binding energies from atomic binding energies and gas-phase bond dissociation energies. Activation barriers are estimated by minimizing the energy of a two-body adsorbate configuration modeled through a Morse potential ( Shustorovich and Sellers, 1998 ).BOC was originally used to predict activation energies of various elementary steps in order to provide insights into possible pathways, the RDS, and compare various metal catalysts. BOC-based microkinetic modeling was introduced by Vlachos and co-workers in 1999 and found that, with reasonable parameter adjustment, the method can describe quantitatively a breadth of experimental data ( Park et al., 1999 ). The double mapping from atomic biding energies to molecular binding energies and from molecular binding energies to activation energies, shown in Fig. 7 , enables the estimation of entire microkinetic model parameter sets from just atomic binding energies, a technique that has proven extremely powerful ( Hansgen et al., 2010 , Kuz'min and Zeigarnik, 2004 , Maestri et al., 2009 , Maestri et al., 2008 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005c , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Mhadeshwar et al., 2003 , Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 ). A major advantage of the BOC method, besides being inexpensive, is that it automatically ensures thermodynamic consistency at the enthalpic level since the adsorbates form the thermochemical basis from which heat of reactions and activation energies are estimated.Download: Download high-res image (618KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. Schematic of mapping from atomic binding energies Q to molecular species binding energies Q (left map) and from molecular species binding energies to activation energies of a microkinetic model (right map). These mappings can be materialized either via the bond-order conservation method (used for both maps) or via linear scaling relations and group additivity (left map) and BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relations (right map). These relations can be derived via DFT. The double mapping compounded with metal transferability ( Fig. 9 ) enables optimization for optimal catalyst property identification ( Fig. 21 ).This method has been found to be accurate within 24 kcal/mol when compared to experimentally determined binding and activation energies ( Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 ). In addition, the method was found to describe the profound effect of coverage on activation energies and reconcile disparate values reported from different labs ( Park et al., 1999 ). While the limited accuracy of the predicted activation energies was once a deterrent to using BOC, a recently developed variant of this method has successfully addressed this issue, improving the accuracy of the predictions at varying coverages ( Maestri and Reuter, 2011 ). Currently, the major drawback of this semi-empirical technique is the questionable accuracy when predicting reaction parameters for larger (specifically multidentate) species, such as those encountered in oxygenates, biomass, FischerTropsch chemistry, etc. In addition, unless one compares BOC predictions to experimental data, one cannot be certain of how reliable predictions are.
4.3.2. Group additivity method for estimation of surface thermochemistry
In order to predict properties of larger adsorbates, group additivity offers an attractive alternative. Originally developed by Benson for predicting thermochemical properties of gas-phase molecules ( Benson, 1976 , Benson and Buss, 1958 , Benson et al., 1969 ), this method approximates the thermophysical properties of a molecule as the sum of properties of its sub-parts. More recently, this method has been extended to the prediction of properties of hydrocarbons on various transition metal catalysts ( Kua et al., 2000 , Kua and Goddard, 1998 ) and oxygenated hydrocarbons on platinum ( Salciccioli et al., 2010 ). These methods are particularly useful for screening out stable adsorbates to hierarchically study with more accurate methods (see glycerol example in Section 5 ). Unfortunately, the application of these methods to surface intermediates is limited to the group contributions that have been derived, although one can develop new groups at reasonable cost. Additionally, this scheme is limited to thermochemistry and does not predict kinetic parameters for surface reactions. A method for achieving this is described below.The major benefits of this scheme are the simplicity and negligible computational cost. For example, calculating the ΔHf,298 of the n-butyl radical (CH3CH2CH2CH2) adsorbed on Ir amounts to the following summation: [C(Ir)(C)(H)2]+2[C-(C)2(H)2]+[C(C)(H)3]=(3.73)+2(4.93)+(10.20)=23.79 kcal/mol (group values from ( Kua et al., 2000 )). This simplicity is also accompanied by reasonable accuracy.
Fig. 8 shows a comparison of DFT calculated Hf,298 to Hf,298 calculated from group additivity for C2HxO2 and C3HxO3 adsorbed oxygenates (dehydrogenated intermediates of ethylene glycol and glycerol) on Pt ( Salciccioli et al., 2010 ). For many uses, this method offers a great balance between accuracy and expense.
Download: Download high-res image (119KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 8. Comparison of group additivity calculated and DFT calculated Hf,298 for C2 and C3 oxygenates. Replotted from Salciccioli et al. (2010 ).
4.3.3. Estimation of entropic parameters
Entropic contributions to rate constants (pre-exponential factors and sticking coefficients) can be obtained by expensive calculations either through vibrational analysis and TST for activated processes, or molecular dynamics (MD) if the activation barriers are low ( Raimondeau and Vlachos, 2002 ). Further, obtaining the partition function of adsorbed species from first principles can be difficult, and thus, approximate methods can be useful. It has been shown that temperature dependent properties of surface species can be estimated reasonably from a simple analysis of the change in the degrees of freedom upon adsorption ( Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Mhadeshwar et al., 2003 ). Along those same lines, a simple estimation method would entail approximating the entropy associated with an adsorbate as that of the corresponding gas-phase molecule minus the entropic contribution from translational degrees of freedom ( Grabow et al., 2008 , Kandoi et al., 2006 , Salciccioli et al., 2011a , Santiago et al., 2000 ):(26) Eq.
(26) further includes a factor (Floc), which is the fraction of local entropy of the species retained upon adsorption ( Santiago et al., 2000 ). The value of Floc has been used as an adjustable parameter in recent microkinetic models ( Grabow et al., 2008 , Kandoi et al., 2006 ), and is usually close to unity. In the case of Floc=1, Si,trans is equal to the magnitude of the entropy of adsorption (ΔSi,ads) in Eq. 18 .Pre-exponentials can be approximated based on the type of reaction. Dumesic provides order of magnitude estimates of pre-exponential factors based on the class of surface reaction or activation of adsorption ( Dumesic et al., 1993 ). For example, estimates from TST for LangmuirHinshelwood (LH) type reactions are given in Table 6 . In this case, information about surface mobility can be used to better approximate pre-exponential factors. Diffusion barriers of surface intermediates can be estimated from the binding energy ( Nilekar et al., 2006 ). In essence, knowledge about the binding energy of adsorbates allows for more accurate estimates of pre-exponential factors.
Table 6. Estimates of pre-exponential factors for LHHW reactions.
Reaction type: A+BC+D Pre-exponential factor estimate (1/s) Mobile surface species with rotation 108 Mobile surface species without rotation 1011 Immobile surface species without rotation 1013 Information taken from Dumesic et al. (1993 ).
4.3.4. Linear scaling relations and transferability of thermochemistry among metals
Once the thermochemical properties of reaction intermediates in a microkinetic model are defined on a single surface, a recent development by Nrskov and co-workers can be used to transfer these energetics to other surfaces based solely on atomic binding energies ( Abild-Pedersen et al., 2007 , Fernandez et al., 2008 , Jones et al., 2008a ). This method correlates molecular heat of chemisorption linearly to the atomic binding energy of the heteroatom binding to the metal, according to ( Abild-Pedersen et al., 2007 ) (27) Here,is the molecular heat of chemisorption and QA is the (heteroatom) atomic heat of chemisorption. For example, the binding energy of methyl ( ) can be linearly correlated across metals as a function of the carbon binding energy (QC). The slope of this correlation (γ) is a function of the valency of the binding atom (28) where x is the number of ligands (excluding the metal) of the binding atom. xmax corresponds to the maximum number of ligands the central atom can take (i.e., C=4, N=3, O=2). For example, the slope of the CH3 relationship will be (43)/4=0.25. The intercept, ξ, can be set from knowing the adsorbate binding energy on one metal.This method can be extended to multidentate intermediates ( Jones et al., 2008a , Salciccioli et al., 2010 ), an important step toward developing microkinetic models of larger molecules, by taking into account second-order effects, specifically the weak oxygenmetal interactions and strain effects caused by scaling to different sized lattices. With these corrections, it was shown that this linear scaling method can predict the adsorption of C2HxO2 intermediates on Ni(111) and NiPtPt(111) bimetallic surface from only the adsorption energies on Pt(111) ( Salciccioli et al., 2010 ). Parity plots showing the comparison of these scaling predictions to DFT calculated energies of adsorption are shown in Fig. 9 . An obvious limitation of this method is its inability to predict transition state properties directly from the equations above. However, with the assumption that the transition state structure is constant from surface to surface, the energy of the transition state should be a linear function of atomic binding energies for the transition state atoms which interact to the surface ( Falsig et al., 2008 ).
Download: Download high-res image (182KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 9. Transferability of thermochemistry from a single metal to other single and bimetallics: Comparison of energy of adsorption for C2HxO2 species estimated from linear scaling relationships (Eq. (27) ) to DFT calculated energy of adsorption for (a) the NiPtPt(111) bimetallic surface and for (b) the Ni(111) surface. Replotted from Salciccioli et al. (2010 ).
4.3.5. DFT-based linear free energy or BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relations
BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relationships or linear free energy relationships (when associated with Gibbs free energy) enable the prediction of kinetic properties from thermochemical properties of adsorbates ( Brnsted, 1928 , Evans and Polanyi, 1936 ) (middle box of last row in Fig. 1 ). The need for this approach becomes imperative for large reacting systems. Its validity has been known for many decades for gas-phase chemistry but has only recently proved for surface reactions, e.g., ( Alcal et al., 2003 ; Bligaard et al., 2004 ; Nrskov et al., 2002 ).The fundamental aspects of these relationships are discussed in depth in recent works ( van Santen et al., 2010 ) (29) Eq.
(29) shows a general relationship where δΔEi is the change in activation energy, δΔEi,rxn is the change in energy of reaction and α is a constant related to the specific classification of a reaction. Essentially, this model offers a way to predict the activation energy of a reaction using the energy of reaction, from the correlation developed from similar reactions that belong to the same homologous series (these relationships have been used for free energies as well as enthalpies). The idea is to perform a small number (ideally only 2; practically 34) TS searches for a homologous series, i.e., reactions that have a similar TS, such as hydrogen abstractions from C, CC bond scissions, etc. Using such linear free energy relations, one can determine the parameters of the rest of the reactions in each homologous series from the thermochemistry. Such relationships have been developed in recent literature for a variety of chemistries on many metals including but not limited to diatomic gas dissociation ( Cheng et al., 2008 , Falsig et al., 2008 , Gajdos et al., 2006 , Michaelides et al., 2003 , Nrskov et al., 2002 ) and dehydrogenation chemistry ( Chen and Vlachos, 2010 , Cheng et al., 2008 , Garcia-Mota et al., 2010 , Michaelides et al., 2003 , Wang et al., 2006 ).
Fig. 10 shows an example of this type of BEP relationship taken from ( Michaelides et al., 2003 ), where the activation barriers (ΔEi) are plotted as a function of the heat of reaction ΔHi,rxn for CHxCHx1+H reactions over several transition metal surfaces. In this example, the constant α appearing in Eq.
(29) , is equal to 0.72.
Download: Download high-res image (100KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 10. Demonstration of BEPs in terms of reaction barrier vs. heat of reaction. BEP for CHx dehydrogenation reactions (data from Michaelides et al. (2003 ) and line is obtained by regression).
While the BEP relationship defined by Eq.
(29) can be used to describe reaction energetics, a slightly different linear free energy relationship has emerged, which is frequently used. Proposed by Alcal et al. these types of correlations linearly relate the transition state energy to reactant or product energy, referenced from the corresponding gas-phase energy of the reactant ( Alcal et al., 2003 ).The accuracy in estimating the transition state energy has later been shown to improve based on reaction type classification ( Loffreda et al., 2009 ). The schematic in Fig. 11 shows the definition of initial state (EIS), transition state (ETS) and final state (EFS) energies for an elementary reaction. An example of a linear relationship between the final state energies and the transition state energies (for methanol dehydrogenation reactions written in the exothermic direction ( Greeley and Mavrikakis, 2004b )) is shown in Fig. 12 . This type of relationship has primarily been used for dehydrogenation reactions ( Li et al., 2009 , Maestri and Reuter, 2011 ) and CC and CO bond cleaving reactions ( Alcal et al., 2003 , Chen and Vlachos, 2010 , Li et al., 2009 ). These reactions are well suited for this type of BEP, because the transition states are generally either very late or very early. The slope of these regressions is generally below but close to one, which implies that the reverse activation energy of reaction is similar for all reactions (assuming that the x-axis is EFS).
Download: Download high-res image (93KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 11. Elementary reaction diagram showing the definition of initial state (EIS), transition state (ETS) and final state (EFS) energies for linear free energy relationship ( Alcal et al., 2003 ).
Download: Download high-res image (88KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 12. Demonstration of BEPs in terms of transition state energy vs. final state energy: Transition state energies as a linear function of final state energies (both referenced from the gas-phase initial state) for methanol dehydrogenation reactions on Pt. Data replotted from Greeley and Mavrikakis (2004b ).Aside from the ability to inexpensively predict somewhat accurate transition state energies from reactant and product energies, a major advantage of these BEPs is their metal-transferability. When coupled with the aforementioned linear scaling relationships, this creates a powerful tool for probing different metals with the same microkinetic model. This is done via a scheme that uses the linear scaling relationships to transfer thermochemical properties of intermediates from the original metal to a new metal. Then these scaled thermochemical properties are used in BEP relationships to calculate activation energies on the new metal. Ferrin et al. applied this method to ethanol decomposition to compare the relative activity of several noble metals ( Ferrin et al., 2009 ). Similarly, direct regressions from DFT data on multiple metals can be used to correlate transition state properties to atomic binding energy descriptors ( Ferrin and Mavrikakis, 2009 , Jones et al., 2008b , Schumacher et al., 2005 ).
4.3.6. Adsorbateadsorbate interactions in mean-field models
The results of microkinetic models can be greatly affected from adsorbateadsorbate interactions ( Getman and Schneider, 2010 , Mhadeshwar et al., 2004 ). An example for NH3 decomposition is shown in Fig. 13 a. Lateral interactions are typically calculated via DFT or determined from surface calorimetry ( Brown et al., 1998 , Yeo et al., 1997 ) or temperature programmed desorption experiments ( Masel, 1996 ). The inclusion of these interactions into a microkinetic model is not trivial. A certain course-graining needs to take place to convert spatially dependent DFT calculated interaction energies into coverage dependent microkinetic model parameters. Even for smaller, monodentate adsorbates, the configurations that produce minimum energy at specific coverages can be hard to predict. In the case of asymmetric, multidentate adsorbates, the existence and location of spectator molecules can markedly influence the predicted energetics. Mean-field microkinetic models approximate a limit of infinite coordination of the surface lattice. On the other hand, DFT calculations have well defined, finite coordination of surface atoms that depend on the material and surface facet. As a result, information based on DFT energies that change with addition of adsorbates cannot be accurately translated into these mean-field models. For lattice KMC models, this detailed spatial information can be retained.
Download: Download high-res image (282KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 13. Effect of interactions in ammonia decomposition chemistry: (a) conversion vs. temperature without interactions (red, dashed line; first modeling iteration) and with interactions (solid, black line; refined model in second iteration) along with experimental data (blue circles). (b) Most abundant species without interactions (adsorbed N dominates) and with interactions (adsorbed H and N dominate at moderate temperatures). Taken from Mhadeshwar et al. (2004 ). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) DFT calculations are performed to monitor the change in energy with the addition of adsorbates in the proximity of the structure of interest (whether it be an intermediate or transition state). In general, coverage dependencies of mean-field kinetic model parameters are determined from regressions of several DFT data points. Previous models have included linear functions of surface coverage ( Getman and Schneider, 2010 , Kitchin, 2009 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Salciccioli et al., 2011a ) as well as more complicated exponential functions ( Grabow et al., 2008 , Kandoi et al., 2006 ). The expense of performing several DFT calculations for such regressions makes a priori application of DFT to all multicomponent interactions impractical. We revisit this topic below ( Section 5 ) where the hierarchical multiscale modeling framework is presented.
4.4. Analysis of microkinetic modeling results
Analysis of a microkinetic model is important when applying it to reactor and catalyst design. A posteriori analysis is centered on reaction intermediates and reaction fluxes. Organizing and interpreting this data enables a fundamental understanding of the surface chemistry and descriptors that control it.
The simplest analysis is performed by observing the concentration profiles of surface species as a function of time, location, or environmental condition in a chemical reactor model. The MASIs on the surface give insights into active reaction pathways and specific elementary reactions that can increase global rates. By increasing the temperature or by modifying the catalyst, one can free the occupied surface sites, and thus, lower the surface coverage.Analyzing the specific elementary reaction rates is also important in gaining a better understanding of the reaction network. Typically, reaction path analysis (RPA) is used to identify the specific sequence of elementary reactions that convert reactants to products. This is specifically valuable for selectivity ( Grabow et al., 2008 , Kandoi et al., 2006 , Maestri et al., 2009 , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005c , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 , Salciccioli et al., 2011a ). Eq.
(30) shows the general equation for RPA (30) Here rj is the rate of irreversible reaction j, f and b stand for forward and backward, respectively, and νi,j is the stoichiometric coefficient of species i in reaction j (summation over all reactions k). χi,j is the fraction of production (νi,j>0) or consumption (νi,j<0) that reaction j contributes to the flux of species i.Comparing forward and reverse reaction rate pairs is important in identifying elementary reactions that are in PE. PE identifies fast reactions whose reactants' and products' concentrations are controlled by thermodynamics. A simple way identifying reactions in PE is to compute the PE ratio of reaction i (31) Reactions with PE ratios between 0.45 and 0.55 are considered to be in PE for model reduction ( Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005a ). The PE ratio is also important for identifying irreversible reactions. These are reactions whose rate in one direction is at least two orders of magnitude higher than the reverse direction (φ>0.99 or φ<0.01). When reactions are (partially) equilibrated ( ), their net rate is close to zero. In this case, one should also consider the net rates in using Eq. (30) to determine which reactions form and consume each species. It is entirely possible that some slow reactions may affect the fate of species more than fast reactions.Elementary reaction rates can also be used to identify intermediates in quasi-steady state (QSS). If the rate of change of the species concentration (dCi/dt) is small (e.g., 1% is typically used as a threshold) compared to the actual elementary reaction rates in the material balance, the species is considered to be in QSS. This occurs when the elementary reaction rates are much larger than the intermediate's net flux. Neglecting the transient term is useful in model reduction, as it converts differential equations into algebraic equations which can lead to closed form rate expressions that are easily solvable ( Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005a , Salciccioli et al., 2011a ).Finally, important model parameters can be identified using sensitivity analysis (SA). SA identifies the RDS of reaction mechanisms, i.e., the step(s) that control the overall reaction rate, along with steps that control responses beyond the RDS, such as selectivity, the MASI, a hot spot, etc. Additionally, SA results at various conditions can also be used as input to a principal component analysis (PCA), which is an important tool in model reduction ( Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005a ). Eq. (32) is the general form of sensitivity analysis used for microkinetic models (32) This equation describes a log-normalized sensitivity analysis which allows for head to head comparison of model parameters. In this equation, Rj is the measured response, which is an important metric of model performance. For example, conversions of reactants, global reaction turnover frequency (TOF), or selectivity to a desired product are common metrics used as a response. Ai corresponds to the model parameter which is being perturbed to change the response. The specific sign of the normalized sensitivity coefficient (NSCi,j) also gives information on whether differential increase of the parameter enhances or represses the metric of interest. Ai is typically the pre-exponential factor of reaction i or the forward rate constant of reaction i (these two lead to equivalent results in Eq. (32) ).SA indicates which elementary reactions are most important in achieving the desired metric. If the metric is global reaction rates, the RDS is determined. SA can be conducted on any model parameter. For example, the sensitivity of enthalpy of intermediates can be probed to better understand thermodynamically which surface species' stability most greatly affects reaction rates or product selectivity. This can be a valuable analysis for catalyst design by understanding trends of intermediate binding energy on different catalyst surfaces. For instance, one would expect the net reaction rate to exhibit a high sensitivity on the enthalpy of the MASI, since the latter blocks active surface sites. The sign of the corresponding sensitivity coefficient will indicate that a lower enthalpy (a stronger binding energy) results in lower global reaction rates, since the species blocks more active sites.Application of these analyses is illustrated in a recent publication describing a mechanism for C2 hydrocarbon chemistry on Pt ( Salciccioli et al., 2011a ). The elementary reactions involved in this model are shown in Table 7 . PE analysis is shown in Fig. 14 a. This plot shows that the CC cleaving of adsorbed ethyl (C2H5) and adsorbed ethylidene (CHCH3) are the only irreversible active reactions in hydrogenolysis of ethane. The SA of Fig. 14 b reveals that these CC bond cleaving reactions are rate determining in ethane hydrogenolysis.Fig. 15 contains PE analysis and SA for the same mechanism, but in conditions where ethylene hydrogenation is active. The juxtaposition of Fig. 14 , Fig. 15 illustrates that while one single mechanism can describe multiple chemical processes and conditions, active elementary reactions and sensitive model parameters vary with feedstock composition, process, and operating conditions. More details of this example, including the full RPA, can be found elsewhere ( Salciccioli et al., 2011a ).Table 7. Full C2 mechanism for ethane hydrogenolysis and ethylene hydrogenation.Reaction Index Reaction
R1 H2+22H
R2 CH4+2CH3+H
R3 C2H4 +2π-C2H4 R4 C2H4+4σ-C2H4
R5 C2H2+2C2H2
R6 C2H6+3C2H5+H
R7 π-C2H4+2σ-C2H4 R8 π -C2H4+HC2H5+ R9 C2H5 + 3σ-C2H4+H R10 σ-C2H4C2H3+H+
R11 C2H2+HC2H3+
R12 C2H+HC2H2+
R13 CHCH3CCH3+H
R14 CCH3+2CCH2+H
R15 C2H5 +   CHCH3+H
R16 CHCH3+C2H3+H
R17 C2H3+CCH2+H
R18 C2H+HCCH2+
R19 C2H5CH3+CH2
R20 2CH2+2σ-C2H4
R21 C2H3CH+CH2
R22 C2H22CH
R23 C2HCH+C
R24 CHCH3CH3+CH
R25 CH3+CCCH3+
R26 CCH2CH2+C
R27 CHCH3+2C2H4
R28 C2H3CCH3+
R29 C2H2CCH2
R30 C+HCH+
R31 CH2+CH+H
R32 CH3+CH2+H
Download: Download high-res image (306KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 14. (a) Partial equilibrium ratio (Eq. (31) ) and (b) normalized sensitivity coefficients (Eq. (32) ) at 623 K for ethane hydrogenolysis. Analysis done at two feed conditions:=25 Torr and =25 Torr (shaded) and =349 Torr and =122 Torr (striped). Data replotted from Salciccioli et al. (2011a) .
Download: Download high-res image (323KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 15. (a) Partial equilibrium ratio (Eq. (31) ) of each reaction at 298 K and (b) normalized sensitivity coefficient (Eq. (32) ) of each reaction at 298 K for ethylene hydrogenation. Analysis done at two conditions of varying hydrogen pressure:=50 Torr (shaded) and =665 Torr (striped). Data replotted from Salciccioli et al. (2011a) .
5. Hierarchical multiscale mechanism development
The inclusion of highest level theory at each scale ( Fig. 1 ) is computationally intractable. For this reason, the hierarchical multiscale modeling framework was introduced ( Vlachos et al., 2006 ) the essence of which is a simple, yet powerful procedure. One starts with a sufficiently simple but physically relevant model at each scale and performs a sensitivity analysis ( Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005b , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2005c , Mhadeshwar and Vlachos, 2007 ), i.e., one uses a model at or near the left of the hierarchy of each scale in Fig. 1 . Upon identification of the important scale and parameter(s), higher level theory can be used to improve the accuracy of the parameter(s) in the relevant scale. The procedure needs to be iterated until the important parameters do not change between iterations. Below we discuss examples of hierarchical multiscale modeling with focus on treating some of the complexity of catalytic reactions ( Fig. 3 ) arising from the sheer size of reaction mechanisms of large molecules and the many-body nature of kinetic rate constants.
5.1. Accounting for adsorbateadsorbate interactions


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the thermodynamic stability of specific bimetallic structures, particularly in Pt-3d systems with subsurface 3d atoms, contribute to the strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts in hydrogenation reactions, and what are the implications of this correlation for designing more effective catalysts using first principles on model surfaces?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 