<quotes>
[1] "Some of the finer details of the interaction of benzene with the surface of an alumina catalyst have been in- vestigated with the use o f deuterium tracers. Exchange of benzene H atoms with DZ occurred readily at room temperature, but intermolecular redistribution of H and D atoms between CeHe and CeDe occurred at least 10-20 times as rapidly under the same conditions."
[2] "Several other compounds (NO, CO, 02, HzO, and 3) had little poisoning effect on the exchange reaction."
[3] "The exchange reaction with D z exhibited a primary kinetic isotope effect by being faster than CeDe-Hz exchange; the kCH/kcD = 2 was attributed to a dissociative exchange mechanism in which CH (or CD) cleavage wa3 rate limiting."
[4] "Catalyst. * To whom all correspondence should be sent."
[5] "All investigators2-416 have observed that the re- action multiplicity, M ,  is unity and have concluded that the exchange reactions are all stepwise."
[6] "The poisoning experiments have supplied consider- able information about the concentration and chemical nature of the active sites, Perhaps the most surprising result was the absence of significant poisoning with NO, CO, HzO, 0 2 ,  and NHs."
[7] "The fact that fairly large doses of ammonia caused no drastic poisoning suggests that the exchange reac- tions do not occur on the acid-base pair sites originally proposed by Peril4 Unfortunately, it is not known whether the ammonia,adsorbed at all nor if the NH bonds underwent exchange with Dz."
[8] "An affirmative answer to this last uncertainty would clearly indicate that a chemical interaction had occurred between am- monia and the alumina surface, but this interaction (if it did occur) did not affect the exchange rate."
[9] "The observation that there was no significant change in any of the exchange reaction characteristics when the catalyst was fully deuterated indicates that the vast majority of the catalyst H atoms, whose concentration is about 2 X 1014/cm2,s cannot be involved in the re- action mechanism."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The interaction of benzene with the surface of an alumina catalyst has been studied using deuterium tracers. Exchange of benzene hydrogen atoms with deuterium occurred readily at room temperature, whereas intermolecular redistribution of hydrogen and deuterium atoms happened at least 10-20 times faster under the same conditions.
2. Several other compounds like nitrogen oxides (NO), carbon monoxide (CO), oxygen (O2), water (HzO), and ammonia (NHs) had little impact on the exchange reaction.
3. The exchange reaction with deuterium displayed a primary kinetic isotope effect, being faster than the exchange with hydrogen. This was attributed to a dissociative exchange mechanism where cleavage of CH (or CD) was rate-limiting.
4. The catalyst was prepared by the MK Research and Development Co. in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
5. Most researchers have observed that the reaction multiplicity, M, is unity, indicating that the exchange reactions are stepwise.
6. Poisoning experiments provided insights into the concentration and chemical nature of the active sites. Surprisingly, there was minimal impact from compounds like NO, CO, water vapor (HzO), oxygen (O2), and ammonia (NHs).
7. Large doses of ammonia did not cause significant poisoning, suggesting that the exchange reactions do not occur on the acid-base pair sites originally proposed by Peril. It is unclear if ammonia binds to the surface or undergoes exchange with deuterium.
8. A positive answer to whether ammonia interacts chemically with the alumina surface would clearly show that such an interaction did not affect the exchange rate.
9. When the catalyst was fully deuterated, there was no significant change in the exchange reaction characteristics, indicating that most of the catalyst's hydrogen atoms, whose concentration is about 2 X 1014/cm2, are not involved in the reaction mechanism.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对苯与氧化铝催化剂表面的相互作用进行了研究，使用氘标记物。在室温下，苯氢原子与氘的交换易于发生，但氢和氘原子在分子间的重分配至少快了10到20倍。
2. 几种其他化合物如氮氧化物（NO）、一氧化碳（CO）、氧气（O2）、水蒸气（HzO）和氨（NHs）对交换反应影响较小。
3. 与氘的交换反应显示了主要的同位素效应，即比与氢的交换更快。这归因于一个解离性交换机制，在这种机制中，CH（或CD）的断裂是决定性的速率限制步骤。
4. 催化剂由MK研究与发展公司在匹兹堡的实验室制备。
5. 大多数研究人员观察到反应多重性M为1，表明交换反应是分步进行的。
6. 毒害实验提供了关于活性位点浓度和化学性质的重要信息。令人惊讶的是，对NO、CO、水蒸汽（HzO）、氧气（O2）和氨（NHs）的大量剂量没有产生显著影响。
7. 较大的氨剂量没有造成剧烈的毒害，暗示交换反应不发生在最初由Peril提出的酸-碱配对位点上。不清楚氨是否吸附在表面上或与氘进行交换。
8. 明确回答氨与氧化铝表面发生化学相互作用将清楚地表明这种相互作用没有影响交换率。
9. 当催化剂完全氘化时，交换反应特性没有显著变化，表明大多数催化剂的氢原子，其浓度约为2 X 1014/cm2，不参与反应机制。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
