<quotes>
[1] "Supported vanadiaalumina catalysts were modified with secondary group VI (Cr, Mo, and W) metal oxide additives. Raman spectroscopy revealed that the metal oxide additives were present as surface MOx species and that they did not form crystalline CrVO, MoVO, or WVO mixed-oxide phases."
[2] "Ra- man spectroscopy and H2-TPR studies also demonstrated that the secondary surface metal oxides behaved as noninteracting additives that did not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface VOx species."
[3] "However, during propane ODH to propylene, a significant promotional effect was seen due to the presence of the secondary surface metal oxide additives."
[4] "It appears that the relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives (MoOx and WOx) are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene."
[5] "Unlike the relatively inert surface WOx and MoOx modifiers, the surface CrOx modifier has greater intrinsic activity for propane activation than the surface VOx sites."
[6] "Consequently, the enhanced activity of the alumina-supported CrOxVOx catalyst is related to the partial supply of weakly adsorbed propane from the somewhat less active surface VOx sites to the more active surface CrOx sites."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The metal oxide additives were identified as surface MOx species, and they did not form crystalline CrVO, MoVO, or WVO mixed-oxide phases. 
2. The secondary surface metal oxides acted as non-interacting additives that didn't significantly change the molecular structure of the surface VOx species.
3. The presence of the secondary metal oxide additives led to a notable promotion effect during the propane ODH to propylene process.
4. The inert secondary metal oxide additives (MoOx and WOx) could weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state to supply the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene.
5. The surface CrOx modifier had greater intrinsic activity for propane activation compared to the surface VOx sites.
6. The enhanced activity of the alumina-supported CrOxVOx catalyst was attributed to the supply of weakly adsorbed propane from the less active surface VOx sites to the more active surface CrOx sites.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 金属氧化物添加剂被确认为表面MOx物种，并且没有形成结晶的CrVO、MoVO或WVO混合氧化物相。
2. 次级表面金属氧化物作为非相互作用的添加剂存在，没有显著改变表面VOx物种的分子结构。
3. 在丙烷ODH到丙烯过程中，次级金属氧化物添加剂的存在产生了明显的促进效果。
4. 相对惰性的次级金属氧化物添加剂（MoOx和WOx）能够弱吸附丙烷在前体状态，以提供催化活性的VOx物种用于丙烷激活到丙烯。
5. 表面CrOx修饰剂在丙烷激活方面具有比表面VOx物种更高的内在活性。
6. 铝基支持的CrOxVOx催化剂的增强活性归因于从较不活跃的表面VOx物种向更活跃的表面CrOx物种提供弱吸附的丙烷。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
