<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide a detailed analysis of the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, nor does it explain why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. However, it does mention that Sn-Beta zeolites, which contain the single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, have gained great applications in catalytic biomass conversion for the C-C bond coupling and C-O bond breakage in various reactions. The Sn-Beta zeolite was applied in the propane dehydrogenation reaction in a previous report. The literature also states that the exploitation of Sn-Beta zeolites by the incorporation of Sn(IV) into the BEA framework structure has been regarded as a big progress in the development of environmental-friendly solid Lewis acid catalysts for sustainable chemistry. The indirect synthesis of Sn-Beta involves two basic steps: removal of Al atoms from the zeolite framework structure to generate the lattice defects, and incorporation of Sn atoms into the vacancies to form Sn containing zeolite. The crystalline Al-Beta zeolite with a nSi/nAl ratio of 13.4 was used as a precursor for the synthesis of Sn-Beta zeolite. The efficiency of the dealumination greatly affects the subsequent Sn atoms incorporation process, so an attempt was made by the treatment of Al-Beta with different concentrations of HNO3 to remove Al from its structure. The literature does not provide information on why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in PDH applications or how their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness. However, it does suggest that the Sn-Beta zeolite with Lewis acid sites is able to activate the C-H bond and exhibits high catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation. Theoretical calculations suggest that the propane dehydrogenation occurs on the Lewis acid sites arising from the single-site Sn in the zeolitic framework. The implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design are not explicitly stated in the literature.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有详细分析用于丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应的金属-沸石催化剂的主要合成方法，也没有解释为什么MFI和BEA拓扑沸石在这一应用中占据主导地位。但是，它确实提到Sn-Beta沸石，其中单点Sn原子等形态地替代了BEA框架中的Sn原子，在催化生物质转化中用于C-C键偶联和C-O键断裂的各种反应中获得了广泛的应用。Sn-Beta沸石在之前的报告中被应用于丙烷脱氢反应。文献还指出，通过将Sn(IV)掺入BEA框架结构中开发Sn-Beta沸石被认为是可持续化学中环保固体Lewis酸催化剂发展的一大进步。Sn-Beta的间接合成涉及两个基本步骤：从沸石框架结构中去除Al原子以产生晶格缺陷，以及将Sn原子掺入空位以形成含Sn沸石。结晶Al-Beta沸石，其nSi/nAl比率为13.4，被用作Sn-Beta沸石的前体。脱铝效率极大地影响了随后的Sn原子掺入过程，因此，通过使用不同浓度的HNO3处理Al-Beta以从其结构中去除Al进行了尝试。文献没有提供为什么MFI和BEA拓扑沸石在PDH应用中占据主导地位，或者它们的结构特征和其他因素如何促进其有效性的信息。但是，它确实表明，具有Lewis酸位点的Sn-Beta沸石能够激活C-H键，并在丙烷脱氢中表现出高催化性能。理论计算表明，丙烷脱氢发生在源自沸石框架中单点Sn的Lewis酸位点上。PDH催化剂设计未来发展的含义在文献中没有明确说明。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
