<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide a detailed analysis of the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, nor does it explain why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. However, it does mention that Sn-Beta zeolites, which contain the single-site Sn atoms isomorphously substituted in the BEA framework, have gained great applications in catalytic biomass conversion for the C-C bond coupling and C-O bond breakage in various reactions. The Sn-Beta zeolite was applied in the propane dehydrogenation reaction in a previous report. The literature also discusses the synthesis of Sn-Beta zeolites via a well-established two-step post-synthesis procedure, which is composed of the dealumination of parent H-Beta and then incorporation of Sn species into the framework of dealuminated Si-Beta through an impregnation process. The crystalline Al-Beta zeolite with a nSi/nAl ratio of 13.4 was used as a precursor for the synthesis of Sn-Beta zeolite. The efficiency of the dealumination greatly affects the subsequent Sn atoms incorporation process. The treatment of Al-Beta with a high concentration of HNO3 is beneficial to the removal of Al atoms from the zeolite framework. The indirect synthesis of Sn-Beta involves two basic steps: (1) removal of Al atoms from the zeolite framework structure to generate the lattice defects, (2) incorporation of Sn atoms into the vacancies to form Sn containing zeolite. The crystalline structure and pore architecture of the Sn-Beta(13.0 M HNO3) sample are well maintained. The incorporation of Sn species into Beta zeolite structure has no evident effect on its structure. The Sn species in these samples were tetrahedrally coordinated into the framework. The Sn species in zeolitic lattice becomes less reducible. The incorporation of Sn species into the zeolite framework will definitely change the acid property of Beta zeolite and thus create some Lewis acid sites. The catalytic performance of Sn-Beta is essentially related to the nature of acidity in its structure. The Lewis acid rather than Brnsted acid is the active site for propane dehydrogenation. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst that possesses the highest Lewis acid but the lowest B/L ratio delivers the best performance in propane dehydrogenation. Theoretical calculations in closed Sn-Beta demonstrated that the direct pathway rather than the indirect pathway is kinetically more feasible for the dehydrogenation, and it seems that open sites are more reactive than closed one depending on the hydroxylation extents. These efficient Na-Sn-Beta zeolites could provide a new possibility for the development of a new generation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts for the production of propylene.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有详细分析用于丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应的金属-沸石催化剂的主要合成方法，也没有解释为什么MFI和BEA拓扑沸石在这一应用中占据主导地位。但是，它确实提到Sn-Beta沸石，其中单个Sn原子等形态地替代在BEA框架中，在催化生物质转化中用于C-C键偶联和C-O键断裂的各种反应中获得了广泛应用。Sn-Beta沸石在之前的报告中被应用于丙烷脱氢反应。文献还讨论了Sn-Beta沸石的合成，通过一个成熟的两步后合成程序，包括对母体H-Beta的脱铝，然后将Sn物种通过浸渍过程掺入到脱铝Si-Beta的框架中。结晶Al-Beta沸石，nSi/nAl比为13.4，用作Sn-Beta沸石的前体。脱铝的效率极大地影响了随后的Sn原子掺入过程。用高浓度的HNO3处理Al-Beta有利于从沸石框架中去除Al原子。Sn-Beta的间接合成涉及两个基本步骤：(1)从沸石框架结构中去除Al原子以产生晶格缺陷，(2)将Sn原子掺入空位以形成含Sn沸石。Sn-Beta(13.0 M HNO3)样品的结晶结构和孔结构保持良好。将Sn物种掺入Beta沸石结构对结构没有明显影响。这些样品中的Sn物种四面体地配位到框架中。沸石晶格中的Sn物种变得不那么可还原。将Sn物种掺入沸石框架肯定会改变Beta沸石的酸性，从而产生一些Lewis酸位点。Sn-Beta的催化性能本质上与结构中的酸性性质有关。Lewis酸而不是Brnsted酸是丙烷脱氢的活性位点。Na-Sn-Beta-30催化剂，具有最高的Lewis酸但最低的B/L比，在丙烷脱氢中表现出最佳性能。封闭Sn-Beta中的理论计算表明，直接途径而不是间接途径在动力学上更可行于脱氢，似乎开放位点根据羟基化程度比封闭位点更具反应性。这些高效的Na-Sn-Beta沸石可以为丙烷脱氢催化剂的新一代开发提供新的可能性，用于生产丙烯。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
