<quotes>
[1] "The addition of niobium oxide has two main effects, which are predominant depending upon the Nb loading. At low loading, niobium oxide spreads at the surface of the NiO phase where it reduces the amount of accessible O. The remaining more isolated O species which are active sites turned to be highly selective for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation."
[2] "At loading higher than 37% the active sites are not modified anymore since a maximum of interaction between the two oxides is obtained but since the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase, the total conversion of ethane increases."
[3] "The results obtained show that surface interaction with niobium oxide is not the only way to lower the O concentration at the surface of NiO but partial reduction with oxalic acid thermally decomposed during preparation, has also to be considered."
[4] "The stability on stream of the catalysts has been studied. A continuous monotonous decrease in the activity of all the catalysts was observed over various periods of time. These deactivations over time on stream have been explained by the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and the reduction of the oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO to a point where no more O active species were present at the surface of NiO."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The addition of niobium oxide at low loading reduces the amount of accessible oxygen at the surface of NiO, which leads to more isolated oxygen species becoming highly selective for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. 
2. At higher loading, the active sites are not modified, but the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase, resulting in a higher total conversion of ethane. 
3. Partial reduction of NiO with oxalic acid, along with surface interaction with niobium oxide, are both effective ways to lower the oxygen concentration at the surface of NiO. 
4. The continuous decrease in activity over time on stream is due to the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and the reduction of the oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO to the point where no active oxygen species are present at the surface of NiO.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 添加铌氧化物在低负载下会减少NiO表面的可接近氧，导致更孤立的氧物种成为乙烷氧化脱氢反应的高选择性催化剂。  
2. 在更高负载下，活性位点未改变，但催化剂的特定表面积继续增加，导致乙烷的总转化率提高。  
3. 将NiO部分还原与铌氧化物的表面相互作用都是有效降低NiO表面氧浓度的方式。  
4. 随着时间的持续增加而活动连续下降的原因是NiNb2O6相的形成和NiO氧过量系数的减少，直到表面NiO上不再存在活性氧物种。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
