RESEARCH PAPER 
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT  
Volume 45, Issue 4, August 2018 
Online English edition of the Chinese language journal 
Cite this article as: PETROL. EXPLOR. DEVELOP., 2018, 45(4): 589–603. 
 
 
Received date: 16 Apr. 2018; Revised date: 21 Jun. 2018.  
* Corresponding author. E-mail: yongshma@126.com 
Foundation item: Supported by the Chinese Academy of Engineering Consultancy Project (2018-xz-09-01). 
Copyright © 2018, Research Institute of Petroleum Exploration & Development, PetroChina. Publishing Services provided by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Com-
munications Co., Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).  
China’s shale gas exploration and development:  
Understanding and practice  
MA Yongsheng*, CAI Xunyu, ZHAO Peirong  
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, Beijing 100728, China 
Abstract:  Through detailed analyses of the distribution characteristics of organic-rich shale, appearance features of high-quality shale, 
microscopic characteristics of shale reservoir rocks, fracability, and the relationship between preservation conditions and shale gas en-
richment in Upper Ordovician Wufeng FormationLower Silurian Longmaxi Formation in Sichuan Basin, theoretical understandings and 
specific suggestions with respect to the exploration and development of shale gas in China are summarized and proposed respectively. 
Important geological understandings in the exploration and development of shale gas of the Wufeng Formation–Longmaxi Formation in 
the Sichuan Basin can be summarized into the following aspects: depositional environment and depositional process control the distribu-
tion of organic-rich shale; high quality shale in “sweet spot segments” are commonly characterized by high content of organic carbon, 
high brittleness, high porosity and gas content; organic pores are important storage space for the enrichment of shale gas; preservation con-
ditions are the key factor for the geological evaluation of shale gas in structurally complex regions; shale gas can be considered as “artificial 
gas reservoirs” and the fracability assessment is essential for high-production; nanoscale storage space and the mode of occurrence con-
trol the special seepage characteristics of shale gas. The following suggestions are proposed for the development of China’s shale gas in-
dustry: (1) focus more on fundamental research to achieve new breakthrough in the geological theory of shale gas; (2) emphasize explora-
tion practices to have all-round discoveries in multiple strata; (3) study the regularities of development and production to establish new 
models of shale gas development; (4) think creatively to invent new technologies to tackle key problems; (5) explore the management in-
novation to create new mechanisms in shale gas development. 
Key words:  shale gas; exploration and development; geological understanding; integration; sweet spot; Upper Ordovician Wufeng 
Formation; Lower Silurian Longmaxi Formation 
Introduction 
The successful exploration and development of unconven-
tional resources represented by shale gas is a huge step for-
ward in the global oil and gas industry in terms of theoretical 
and technological innovation. The successful development of 
shale gas has broken through the lower limit of conventional 
reservoir and the traditional concept of trap accumulation, and 
reinvested the geological theory of petroleum and gas with 
new connotations[12]. It has expanded the exploration and 
development types and the amount of hydrocarbon resources, 
and overturned theories known as “peak oil” and “oil deple-
tion”. Massive application of innovative technologies repre-
sented by multistage fracturing of horizontal wells has up-
graded the technology of energy industry[1]. Through shale gas 
revolution, America’s external dependence on oil and gas has 
been declining continuously. Global energy structure has also 
been altered significantly. As China’s economy is stepping  
into high-quality development and the environmental protec-
tion is upgraded, there is a rapid growth in China’s demand 
for hydrocarbon resources, particularly for natural gas. 
Therefore, the exploration and development of shale gas is of 
great significance for ensuring China’s energy security, re-
forming the energy structure, and promoting technological 
progress in China’s oil and gas industry. China has attached 
great importance to the utilization of unconventional natural 
gas, such as shale gas. The top-level design and supporting 
polices have been made for the development of shale gas in-
dustry. Since the initiation of China’s shale gas exploration in 
2009, the commercialized shale gas development in marine 
shale of the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation made China one of 
a few countries which have realized industrial shale gas ex-
ploitation. In this study, the important geological understand-
ings and successful practical experiences from the recent ten 
years’ exploration and development of shale gas in the Wufeng–  
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 590 
Longmaxi Formation are summarized, and suggestions for the 
future development of China’s shale gas industry are pre-
sented.   
1.  Current situation of China’s shale gas  
exploration and development 
China has discovered natural gas flow in mud shale while 
carrying out exploration and development of conventional 
hydrocarbons in the Sichuan and Ordos Basins since the 
1960s. In 1966, Well Wei-5 obtained a daily gas production of 
2.46×104 m3 in the Lower Cambrian Qiongzhusi Formation. 
Well Yang 63 tested a daily gas production of 3 500 m3 from 
the Upper Ordovician–Lower Silurian Longmaxi Formation 
after acidification[3]. Chinese researchers[46] started to pay 
close attention to shale gas resources since the 1980s. Starting 
from 2000, research groups from the Strategic Consulting 
Center of Oil and Gas Resources of the former Ministry of 
Land and Resources, China University of Geosciences (Bei-
jing), Sinopec, and PetroChina etc. initiated the investigation 
on geological conditions of shale gas and the evaluation of 
resource potential through reviews on old data and outcrop 
studies based on their understandings of the geology theory 
and technology of shale gas development in United States. In 
2009, the former Ministry of Land and Resources initiated the 
project “Evaluation of shale gas resource potential and selec-
tion of favorable zones in important regions of China”, and 
drilled the first well, Yuye 1[3], to evaluate the shale gas re-
source potential in Pengshui Town, Chongqing. In 2011, the 
former Ministry of Land and Resources organized na-
tional-wide investigation of shale gas resource potential and 
selection of favorable zones, and announced to the public, on 
March 1st, 2012, that the amount of geological resources of 
shale gas in China were up to 134.42×1012 m3, and the amount 
of recoverable shale gas resources were 25.08×1012 m3. In 
March, 2011, the Chinese Academy of Engineering started the 
strategic research on the exploration and development of 
China’s unconventional natural gas and concluded that the 
recoverable amount of shale gas resources in China were 
10.50×1012 m3, and proposed the trend and the roadmap for 
the development and exploitation of shale gas in China[7].  
In 2009, major oil companies represented by PetroChina 
and Sinopec initiated shale gas exploration. In 2010, a vertical 
well, Well Wei 201, drilled by PetroChina in Weiyuan region 
in the south of Sichuan obtained shale gas flow from the 
Lower Silurian Longmaxi Formation by fracturing[23,8]. In 
April 2012, Well Ning 201-H1 in Changning region obtained 
a daily shale gas production of 15×104 m3 from the Wufeng 
Formation and the Longmaxi Formation[89], marking China’s 
breakthrough in commercial shale gas exploration. In No-
vember of the same year, Well Jiaoye 1HF drilled by Sinopec 
in Jiaoshiba region in the southeast of Sichuan obtained a 
daily shale gas production of 20.3×104 m3 from the Wufeng 
Formation and the Longmaxi Formation[10]. In the year 2014, 
Sinopec submitted the first time proved shale gas reserves of 
106.75 billion m3. By the end of 2017, Fulin shale gas field 
had cumulative reserves of over 600 billion m3, shale gas 
production capacity of 10 billion m3, and annual gas produc-
tion of 6.04 billion m3. Besides, Sinopec has made break-
throughs in shale gas exploration in the Wufeng–Longmaxi 
Formation in the Weiyuan, Rongchang and Dingshan areas, 
and in the Lower Cambrian Qiongzhusi Formation in Jin-
gyan–Jianwei area in the Sichuan Basin. At the same time, 
Sinopec has made new discoveries in the continental shale of 
the Jurassic Ziliujing Formation in the Fulin, Yuanba and Ji-
annan areas, and in the Xujiahe Formation in western Sichuan 
area of the Sichuan Basin[11]. Meanwhile, PetroChina has built 
commercialized shale gas development areas in Weiyuan, 
Changning and Shaotong in Chuannan region[12], discovered 
proved shale gas reserves of more than 300 billion m3 cumu-
latively, and had a shale gas production of 3 billion m3 in 2017. 
The Yanchang Petroleum Group drilled tens of wells in the 
continental shale of the Chang 7 Member, Yanchang Forma-
tion, and obtained shale gas flows[13]. China Geological Sur-
vey carried out shale gas geological survey in non-hydro-
carbon exploration areas in South China and North China and 
made new discoveries in the Lower Cambrian and Silurian in 
Yichang region[14]. Energy corporations such as China 
Huaneng, China Huadian and Shenhua joined the shale gas 
exploration actively and made progresses. By the end of 2016, 
2D seismic lines of 24 760 km, 3D seismic data of 4013 
square kilometers and 1161 wells[15] had been completed in 
total for China’s shale gas exploration and development. Four 
commercialized shale gas development areas have been built 
up in Fulin, Weiyuan, Changning and Shaotong in the Sichuan 
Basin, with both shale gas reserves and production rate grow-
ing rapidly. By the end of 2017, the proved shale gas reserves 
in China have approached about 1 trillion m3, and the shale 
gas production increased from 25 million m3 in 2012 to more 
than 9 billion m3, heralding a promising prospect of shale gas 
exploration and development in China. 
Through the practices of exploration and development, 
Chinese researchers[10,1622] proposed “two-element enrich-
ment rule” for marine shale gas in regions with complex 
structures, and enrichment models of “structure type sweet 
spot” and “continuous type sweet spot”. The procedure of 
selection and evaluation of favorable zones and targets has 
been improved to a mature level. Preliminary technologies 
such as gas reservoir characterization, production capacity 
evaluation and optimization of development parameters have 
been established. Techniques such as fast drilling of horizontal 
wells, pumping bridge plug and clustered perforation for mul-
tistage fracturing, simultaneous fracturing and chain fractur-
ing are now under mature application, allowing massive de-
velopment of shallow-sea facies shale gas above the depth of 
3 500 m. The well factory operating mode in mountainous 
areas has been worked out, significantly improving the opera-
tion efficiency and shortening the drilling and operation cycle 
by 30% than single well per wellsite. The associated cleaner 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 591 
production technical system represented by cyclic utilization 
and innocuous disposal of waste residue, waste liquid and 
waste gas has been developed. In the development of key 
fracturing equipment, fracturing truck of style 3000 with in-
dependent intellectual property rights has been designed and 
produced, and research and development system, testing and 
manufacturing system, and the application standard of domes-
tic high power fracturing machine set have been established. 
Fracturing equipment such as open hole packers and bridge 
plugs have been developed independently and realized indus-
trialized massive production. Taking the Fuling shale gas field 
as an example, hundreds of technical standard and norms have 
been set up, 39 national patents have been authorized, among 
which 12 are invention patents. China has gained worldwide 
recognition and attracted great attention in global shale gas 
industry. In the Fifth World Shale Oil and Gas Summit in 
2014, Chinese enterprise received the international pioneering 
award in shale oil and gas development. In 2018, the project 
“High Efficiency Exploration and Development of Large Ma-
rine Shale Gas Field in Fuling” won the first prize of the na-
tional scientific and technological progress. 
2.  Important geological understandings  
The exploration and development of shale gas is different 
from that of conventional oil and gas. Multistage fracturing of 
horizontal wells must be adopted to reform the tight shale 
reservoir rocks rich in nano-scale pores to get commercial 
shale gas. Shale gas reservoirs are characterized by good con-
tinuity and self-generation and self-storage. In North America, 
geological evaluation system focusing on shale quality mainly 
includes two aspect of evaluation. The first aspect is the 
evaluation on gas-bearing property, including TOC, types of 
organic matter, maturity, porosity, thickness of organic-rich 
shale, and gas content, etc. The second aspect is fracability, 
which has become an important factor of evaluation because 
of its close relationship with shale gas production. Chinese 
geologists’ understanding on shale gas has been grown gradu-
ally. At the early stage, the focus is on shale quality evaluation 
based on experiences from North America. Through practices 
of exploration, it is found that the preservation condition is the 
key factor for marine shale gas enrichment in China’s struc-
turally complicated regions. Chinese geologists have gradu-
ally recognized that the sedimentary environment, preserva-
tion, and fracturing are the fundamentals for shale gas en-
richment and high production. Through nearly ten years of 
persistent research, Chinese researchers have made major 
progress in the understanding on major factors controlling gas 
enrichment and high production of marine shale represented 
by the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation.  
2.1.  Depositional environment and process control the  
distribution of organic-rich shale 
Exploration and development of shale gas in North Amer-
ica and China suggest that the precondition for high-pro-
duction of marine shale gas is that organic-rich (TOC>2%) 
shale has to be continuously developed. Therefore, the distri-
bution of organic-rich shale is considered as an important 
factor for shale gas evaluation. At the early stage, Chinese 
geologists put a lot of effort into the study on the distribution 
and development of source rocks. Liang Digang[2324] investi-
gated the distribution characteristics, geochemical features, 
formation environment and the controlling factors of the Pa-
leozoic marine source rocks in South China, confirmed the 
development of four sets of marine source rocks, Lower 
Cambrian, Upper Ordovician–Lower Silurian, Lower Permian 
and Upper Permian, of seven favorable depositional facies, 
classified these seven favorable depositional facies into three 
models, and systematically analyzed the temporal and spacial 
distribution of important parameters of the source rocks, such 
as TOC and Ro. These results provided important references 
for the selection of favorable marine shale gas areas of 
Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation and for the discovery of the 
Fuling shale gas field.  
As the exploration and development of shale gas advances, 
based on the differentiation of graptolite zones by Xu Chen 
and Junxuan Fan[2527], many scholars[2835] carried out detailed 
sequence-stratigraphic division and stratigraphic correlation 
of Wufeng Formation–Longmaxi Formation. Research and 
production units of Sinopec divided the lower member of the 
Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation into nine layers (Fig. 1). Or-
ganic-rich shale (TOC>2%) is distributed from No. ① to No. 
⑤ layer. This set of organic-rich shale is characterized by 
stable stratigraphic position and wide distribution. No. ① to 
No. ③ layers have been selected as sweet spot intervals, 
representing a set of high-quality shale with TOC of more 
than 3%, which is part of the two transgressive systems tracts 
under rapid rise of global sea level in the end of the Late Or-
dovician and the beginning of the Early Silurian in the re-
stricted deep-water shelf related reducing environment. A 
thin-layer of shell limestone of Guanyinqiao Member occurs 
locally on the top of Wufeng Formation, representing low 
water level deposits during the expansion of Antarctic ice 
sheet and the drop of global sea level. Affected by the subma-
rine uplifts in Chuanzhong, Qianzhong and Yichang, the 
two-phase deposits of transgressive systems tracts at the bot-
tom of the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation had several depo-
centers (Figs. 2 and 3). 
2.2.  The sweet spot intervals 
Compared with other thin-layers, the No. ① to No. ③ 
thin layers of the sweet spot intervals of the Wufeng–Long-
maxi Formation have the following characteristics (Fig. 1). 
2.2.1.  High organic carbon content 
The No. ① to No. ③ thin layers have an organic carbon 
content of more than 4% in general, lower than 2% locally, 
and an average organic carbon content of more than 3%. Sta-  
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 592 
 
Fig. 1.  Profile characteristics of typical wells in Jiaoshiba (Testing results are represented by average values). 
 
Fig. 2.  Map showing the thickness distribution of high-quality shale 
of the SQ1 transgressive systems tract of the Upper Ordovician 
Wufeng Formation in the Sichuan Basin and the surroundings. 
tistical analysis of organic matter of the No. ① to No. ③ 
thin layers in the Jiaoshiba, Yongchuan and Weiyuan areas 
reveals that about 70% to 80% of maceral compositions are 
non-animal debris such as phytoplankton, acritarchs, bacteria 
 
Fig. 3.  Map showing the thickness distribution of high-quality 
shale of the SQ2 transgressive systems tract at the bottom of the 
Lower Silurian Longmaxi Formation in the Sichuan Basin. 
and solid bitumen, whereas about 20% to 30% is animal de-
bris, among which more than 90% is graptolites, and the rest 
is chitinozoa. For shale layers with TOC content of less than 
2%, about 47% to 67% of the maceral components of organic 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 593 
matter are animal debris (mainly graptolites and chitinozoa), 
whereas about 24% to 53%[3637] of organic matter is non-ani-
mal debris. Foreign researchers have confirmed that phyto-
plankton, acritarchs and bacteria contain a lot of aliphatic 
structures, leading to high hydrocarbon potential[3840]. 
2.2.2.  High silica content 
The average silica content of the No. ① to No. ③ thin 
layers is about 60%. Numerous siliceous radiolarian and 
sponge spicule are developed along the bedding plane. The 
content of siliceous radiolarian can be as high as 30%. Bio-
genic quartz associated with skeletons of siliceous radiolarian 
and siliceous sponge spicule makes up about 67% to 90% of 
the total silica. The average silica content of the other thin 
shale layers is about 42% to 53%, with detrital quartz as the 
major component[1719].  
2.2.3.  High porosity 
The average porosity of the No. ① to No. ③ thin layers 
is larger than 5%, with the average diameter of matrix pores 
larger than 7 nanometers. More than 50% of the total porosity 
is organic porosity. The CT scan of black siliceous shale with 
TOC content of about 5.89% in the No. ① thin layer (Fig. 4a) 
reveals that the major storage space is organic porosity. The 
pore size is about 30 nanometers. Pores are well-connected, 
and the porosity is 5.06%.  
The No. ⑥ to No. ⑨ thin shale layers with an average 
TOC content of less than 2% have a porosity of less than 4% 
and average diameter of matrix pores of about 1.34 to 2.29 
nanometers. The CT scan of a silty shale sample with TOC of 
about 1.27% from the No. ⑥ thin layer shows that the stor-
age space is composed of mostly inorganic pores[41], with few 
organic matter pores and poor pore connectivity, and the po-
rosity is 2.44%.  
2.2.4.  High gas content 
The No. ① to No. ③ thin shale layers of the Wufeng 
Formation–Longmaxi Formation have an average gas content 
of more than 6 m3/t and gas saturation of about 6777%, 
which are much higher than those of the shale with TOC con-
tent of less than 2%.  
The sweet spot intervals, No. ① to No. ③ thin layers of 
high quality shale have high organic content, organic matter 
dominated by algae and acritarchs with hydrogen-rich lipid 
structures characterized by high hydrocarbon potential and 
good gas-bearing property. The high porosity provides storage 
space for the enrichment of shale gas, while the high brittle-
ness lays a good foundation for fracturing.    
2.3.  Organic pores, major storage space for shale gas  
accumulation 
As the nanometer-scale testing technology advances, the 
research on reservoir rocks is deepening and more elaborate. 
Large amounts of nanometer-scale pores have been found in 
the organic matter of shale, which provides the theoretical 
basis for the integrated source and storage characteristic of 
organic-rich shale.   
Recently, the exploration and development practices of 
shale gas in the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation[42] suggest that 
the shale porosity is closely related to gas content of shale and 
well production, so it is considered an important factor for the 
evaluation of shale gas enrichment and high productivity. Ac-
cording to the type of matrix, researchers usually divide the 
shale pores into organic pores, brittle minerals pores and clay 
minerals pores[4346]. Through examination and statistical 
analysis of pore types and characterization of pore structures, 
the following understanding has been reached.  
2.3.1.  Organic pores can be original and secondary, and 
the latter can be heterogeneous  
Studies on organic pores in shale of different types and dif-
ferent maturities[3637,47] show that organic pores can be di-
vided into two types. The first type of pore is original organic 
 
Fig. 4.  Black siliceous shale with TOC of 5.89% (a) and silty shale with TOC of 1.27% (b) CT scanning. 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 594 
pore, which is associated with the internal structure of organ-
isms, such as the pores in the fiber structure of higher plant, 
pores between algae cells and pores in the honeycomb struc-
ture of animal skeleton. The other type of pore is formed dur-
ing the thermal evolution of organic matter, including organic 
pores in kerogens and solid bitumen. The secondary organic 
pores are often heterogeneous. In the shale of the Wufeng– 
Longmaxi Formation, the organic pores are largely concen-
trated in solid bitumen and hydrogen-rich lipid organic matter. 
The organic-rich shale of the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation is 
in the dry gas evolution phase (with Ro about 2.2%3.06%, on 
average 2.5%). In the process of thermal evolution, the shale 
experienced oil generation of organic matter, cracking of oil to 
gas, gas generation by kerogen directly and cracking of bitu-
men to gas. Such a process reflects the “multi-element” hy-
drocarbon supply at micro-scale.  
2.3.2.  Formation of organic pores controlled by thermal 
evolution, and the development of organic pores dependent 
on the physical properties of organic matter  
Both domestic and foreign researchers[4854] have carried 
out many experiments and simulations with the aim to under-
stand the evolution of organic pores in the course of thermal 
evolution, and proposed that organic pores increase and then 
decrease as the maturity of organic matter increases. Studies 
on organic-rich shale in the Tertiary of the East China, the 
Triassic in the Ordos Basin, the Jurassic, Silurian, and Cam-
brian in the Sichuan Basin have confirmed this rule. Most of 
the researchers[5156] hold that organic pores do not develop 
when Ro is lower than 0.7, and organic pores start to form and 
increase when Ro reaches 1.2% or higher; when Ro is higher 
than 2%, organic pores start to decrease. Some researchers[57] 
proposed that when Ro is between 2.2%2.7%, secondary 
cracking can occur, causing the increase of organic pores, and 
when Ro is more than 2.7%, the organic pores start to decrease. 
Research on the organic-rich shale of the Lower Cambrian 
Niutitang Formation suggests that as the maturity increases, 
organic matter can be carbonized, the organic pores collapse 
or are filled, causing the decrease in porosity, and increase in 
electric conductivity[55]. 
The variation of the amount of organic pores as docu-
mented above is associated with the intrinsic physical proper-
ties of organic matter. Compared with brittle minerals such as 
quartz, organic matter, with lower density and light mass, is 
plastic materials with lower resistance to compression. As the 
maturity of organic matter increases, organic pores form and 
provide storage space for hydrocarbon. At the same time, as 
the amount of organic pores increases, organic matter be-
comes more fragile and less resistant to compression. When 
the pores are filled with gas, the pore pressure increases and 
balances the overburden pressure, so that the organic pores 
can be preserved. When gas in the organic pores dissipates, 
pore pressure decreases and the organic pores collapse, caus-
ing decrease of organic pores. Therefore, it is not difficult to 
explain why the amount of organic pores firstly increases and 
then decreases as the maturity increases. Similarly, the shale 
with overly high organic matter content has less organic pores 
(TOC>10%), and in regions with poor preservation conditions, 
the proportion of organic pores are relatively lower[56]. Nev-
ertheless, further observations and studies are needed for con-
firming the explanation presented above.  
2.3.3.  The development degree of organic pores is  
positively correlated with the gas bearing property of shale 
and the well production  
Research shows that shale porosity and specific surface ar-
ea of pores and pore volume have significant impact on gas 
bearing property of shale[1118]. Statistics on shale porosity, gas 
bearing property and production per well of different defor-
mation belts in the Jiaoshiba anticline in the Fulin shale gas 
field (Fig. 5) reveal that in the typeⅠdeformation belt at the 
core of the Jiaoshiba anticline, the shale has log porosity of 
more than 4.6% and average gas content of over 6 m3/t, and 
the wells have an average open flow capacity of more than 0.5 
million m3 per day. In comparison, in the type Ⅳ deforma-
tion belt in the Wujiang faulted anticline belt, the shale has an 
average log porosity of 2.9% and gas content of 5 m3/t, and 
the wells there have an average open flow capacity of less 
than 0.1 million m3 per day. This suggests that shale with high 
porosity have higher gas content and single well production.  
The development degree of organic pores is positively cor-
related with the gas bearing property of shale, single well 
production and recoverable reserves. In the Jiaoshiba area, the 
lower member of the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation can be 
divided into ①-⑨ nine thin layers, and the nine thin layers 
are grouped into two gas-bearing intervals, the lower interval 
composed of ①-⑤ and the upper interval composed of ⑥-
⑨. From the bottom to top, the proportion of organic pores 
decreases, while the amount of clay mineral pores increases. 
The lower gas bearing interval[57] has an average content of 
organic carbon of about 3.39%, average porosity of 4.31% to 
7.8%, mostly organic pores (accounting for more than 50% of 
the total pores). The upper gas-bearing interval has lower or-
ganic carbon content of 1.5% on average, a porosity range 
from 3.38% to 5.12%, and largely inorganic pores and micro 
cracks, where the organic pores make up 30.4% to 35.4% of 
the total pore volume[57]. Compared with the development 
wells in the lower gas-bearing layers, the appraisal wells in 
the upper gas-bearing layers have relatively lower production, 
rapid pressure decline, and lower predicted recoverable re-
serves per well.   
For shale reservoirs with the same TOC, the development 
degree of organic pores is positively correlated with the single 
well production. Well Dingye 1 in the Dingshan area is a low 
production well with normal pressure coefficient at the well-
head[59]. Compared with the high production well in the Jiao-
shiba area with high pressure coefficient, the lower gas-bear-
ing layers in Well Dingye 1 has an average TOC of 3.4%,  
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 595 
 
Fig. 5.  Map showing the division of deformation belts in the Jiaoshiba anticline of the Fulin shale gas field in the Sichuan Basin (modi-
fied from Reference [58]). TypeⅠDeformation Belt: Bedding gently dipping and structurally simple, Porosity>4.6%, Gas content>6.0 
m3/t, Average open flow capacity per well>50×104 m3/day; TypeⅡ Deformation Belt: Structurally complicated with good sealing capacity 
of faults, Porosity>4.0%, Gas content >6.0 m3/t, Average open flow capacity per well>40×104 m3/day; TypeⅢ Deformation Belt: Struc-
turally complicated with weak sealing capacity of faults; Average Porosity:3.8%, Average Gas content: 5.5 m3/t, Average open flow capac-
ity per well <20×104 m3/day; Type Ⅳ Deformation Belt: Structurally complicated with weak sealing capacity of Wujiang fault, Average 
Porosity: 2.9%, Average Gas content: 5.0 m3/t, Average open flow capacity per well <10×104 m3/day. 
similar to that in Jiaoshiba area; average porosity of 3.03%, 
lower than that of Jiaoshiba area, and the pores are dominated 
by inorganic pores, and the organic pores account for 1040% 
of the total pore volume, which is much lower than that of the 
Jiaoshiba area (50%).    
2.4.  Preservation condition is the key parameter in  
geological evaluation of shale gas in structurally complex areas 
Pressure coefficient of gas reservoir is an important pa-
rameter in evaluating favorable zones and targets of shale gas. 
The exploration and development of shale gas in North 
America and China have confirmed that the pressure coeffi-
cient of shale gas reservoirs in high production zones is com-
monly higher than 1.2[1622]. Pressure coefficient is also a 
comprehensive indicator to judge the preservation conditions. 
Overpressure commonly indicates good preservation condi-
tions. Because the geophysical prediction of pressure coeffi-
cient of shale gas reservoir is still in the exploratory stage, 
geological analysis and evaluation of the preservation condi-
tions has become an important research subject in shale gas 
potential evaluation. The preservation conditions of shale gas 
can be influenced by a number of geological factors, including 
the sealing capacity of shale, roof/floor conditions, reforma-
tion time and intensity of tectonic movements[1620,60].   
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 596 
2.4.1.  Sealing capacity of shale and roof/floor condition 
Shale reservoirs are characterized by high porosity and low 
permeability. Under tectonic stress, the physical properties of 
shale and bedding planes control the development of fractures, 
which can influence the storage capacity and preservation of 
shale gas. For example, cores from several wells drilled in the 
Pingqiao anticline of the Fulin shale gas field show that under 
tectonic compression, a fracture-damage zone developed in 
the lower member of the Wufeng Formation, causing lower 
gas content. This is closely related to the high brittleness of 
the Wufeng Formation. 
The roof and floor of a shale layer refer to the overlying 
and underlying layers in direct contact with the shale layer. 
The contact relationship and the breakthrough pressure of the 
roof and floor are crucial to the preservation of shale gas. 
Chinese researchers[1620,22] have found that the carbonized 
shale at the bottom of Lower Cambrian has high content of 
organic carbon. But gas testing results reveal that its gas con-
tent is much lower than the middle and upper shale. This is 
related to the weathering crust dolomite of the Dengying 
Formation functioning as the floor of the Lower Cambrian 
which has no sealing capacity. Good sealing capacity of the 
roof and floor of the shale layer is an important factor control-
ling the enrichment and high-production of shale gas in the 
Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation.  
2.4.2.  The effect of tectonic burial, tectonic uplift, faulting 
and fracturing  
As the burial depth increases, the temperature and pressure 
also increase, the clay minerals in shale dehydrate, meanwhile, 
and the organic matter generates oil and gas with increase of 
maturity, leading to overpressure[6162]. Overpressure is bene-
ficial for the preservation of organic pores, which provide 
storage space for shale gas enrichment. However, overpres-
sure is also a challenge to the sealing capacity of mud shale 
and the roof/floor condition. If the breakthrough pressure of 
them is not high enough, shale gas will dissipate.  
Tri-axial mechanical experiments[17,20,58,63] on the mud shale 
samples from the Longmaxi Formation in Well Jiaoye 2 sug-
gest that when the shale is uplifted from the depth of 3 000 m 
to 1 0001 500 m, and the confining pressure drops from 50 
MPa to about 15 MPa, the shale would turn from plastic to 
brittle[58,63], micro-fractures would open, and the porosity and 
permeability of shale would increase significantly, and the 
storage capacity of shale would enhance, but the preservation 
conditions would turn worse. Under tectonic uplifting, the 
uplift magnitude, stages and duration of the uplift can all af-
fect the preservation conditions of shale gas.  
In the Jiaoshiba area, analysis of the cores sampled from 
the roof and floor layers reveals that the cores sampled far 
from faults have few hydrocarbon inclusions; whereas cores 
sampled near faults have rich fractures and large amounts of 
hydrocarbon inclusions, suggesting that faults and fractures 
damaged the sealing capacity of shale. At the same time, ex-
ploration and development experiences show[60] that whether 
the fault is open or not has a strong effect on shale gas pro-
duction of well. The Jiaoshiba block is a NE trending box 
anticline, there develops a northwest trending Wujiang fault 
zone in the southwest of the anticline, which is a thrust belt 
formed under multiple-stage compression and thrusting with 
the Silurian strata as the detachment layer, with a damages 
zones composed of faults of various hierarchies extending to 
the surface. When drilling near the damage zone, horizontal 
wells often have circulation loss, low pressure coefficient and 
low well production. The fault zone can influence the produc-
tion of wells within the distance of 5 to 6 kilometers. In con-
trast, the fault located in the west wing of the Jiaoshiba anti-
cline is closed below the surface with good sealing capacity, 
so the production of wells located on two sides of the fault are 
not affected (Fig. 5). The fault developed in the eastern wing 
of the Pingqiao anticline is not open. The horizontal wells 
drilled nearby have high productions.  
The effect of tectonics on shale gas enrichment and high 
production can be two-sided. On one hand, it can improve the 
storage capacity of shale. On the other hand, tectonics can 
damage the sealing capacity of shale and the shale gas can 
dissipate.  
2.5.  Shale gas reservoir being “man-made gas reservoir”, 
fracability assessment is the key for high production 
Tight in nature, shale reservoirs must be fractured at mas-
sive scale to get commercial gas flow. Therefore, fracability 
assessment is an important research subject for geological 
research of shale gas. Exploration and development of shale 
gas stresses the importance of integrated exploration and de-
velopment engineering, the core of which is to integrate geo-
logical understanding with drilling and fracturing design, 
aiming at having optimal results of engineering operation and 
high production. Nowadays, in China, research on fracability 
involves mainly study on mineral composition and mechani-
cal properties of rocks. Recent development of Funling shale 
gas field suggest that factors such as structural configuration, 
burial depth of strata, early-formed fractures, all have signifi-
cant impact on fracturing effect in shale[60,64]. The authors 
think that the research and assessment of fracability include 
the following contents.   
2.5.1.  Fracability assessment of mud shale layers and 
selection of layers for drilling horizontal wells 
After the discovery of Well Jiaoye 1, researchers carried out 
detailed stratigraphic division and achieved the identification 
and characterization of layers for drilling horizontal wells. 
Based upon this work, statistics on the layers horizontal well 
drilled through, fracturing result and single well production 
indicate that different thin layers are different in breakdown 
pressure, sensitivity to proppant concentration in fracturing, 
and pump off pressure[4142]. Statistics suggest that for hori-
zontal drilling, the longer the well drills through the layer, the 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 597 
higher the productivity of the well will be[6468].   
When selecting the layer for drilling a horizontal well, 
firstly, the position of layer with high TOC in the mud shale 
interval should be located. Detailed stratigraphic division of 
the shale interval with high TOC content can be carried out 
based on lithology, TOC content, gas content and rock me-
chanical properties. Through laboratory simulation and on-site 
testing, the layers with the best fracability and the highest 
possible production should be selected for the placement of 
the horizontal interval. In some cases, the layer selected for 
horizontal interval placement can vary in the same stratum if 
the gas content and lithology changes. In the production 
building area of the Pingqiao anticline, the layer for drilling 
horizontal interval was adjusted because the natural fractures 
and gas content vary in the Wufeng Formation.   
2.5.2.  Detailed structural analysis and selection of  
horizontal well trajectory and fracturing stages  
Exploration and development practices[64] suggest that bur-
ial depth, structural configuration, distribution of earlier frac-
tures, and present stress state can all influence the effects of 
staged fracturing of horizontal wells. From the structural con-
figuration, anticlines commonly have tensile stress, whereas 
synclines commonly have compressive stress, so it is more 
difficult to carry out hydraulic fracturing operation in syn-
clines than in anticlines. Because the stress varies in the core 
part, the hinge zone, and the wings of anticlines, the effects of 
fracturing and well production vary.  
Detailed structural interpretation is the key to the design of 
trajectory and staged fracturing of horizontal wells. Firstly, the 
present-day stress orientation should be confirmed, so that the 
orientation of horizontal wells can be determined. Secondly, 
the development characteristics of early-formed fractures 
should be identified by using methods of curvature, coherence 
and ant-body attributes. Thirdly, based on accurate charac-
terization of structure burial depth, structural features and 
development characteristics of fractures on the plane, the 
trajectory of horizontal wells can be designed. Fourthly, after 
the drilling of a horizontal well, layers the horizontal well 
passes through should be identified, the fracture zones and 
faults the horizontal well drilled through and faults and frac-
tures near the well should be characterized by using well log-
ging, well testing and seismic data. Relevant engineering per-
sonnel can design staged fracturing based on the information. 
2.6.  Nanoscale storage space and the occurrence state 
make the shale gas special in seepage characteristics  
Combined analysis of mercury intrusion-nitrogen adsorp-
tion of the samples from Well Jiaoye 1 shows that the shale 
reservoir has mostly nano-scale pores of micro-medium sizes 
and few big nanopores, with pore diameters generally less 
than 20 nanometers. Shale gas occurs in several states, in-
cluding free state, adsorbed state and dissolved state. The free 
gas to adsorbed gas ratio is 6:4 in general. Compared with the 
production characteristics of conventional natural gas wells 
which are characterized by linear relationship between pres-
sure and cumulative production, shale gas wells have linearly 
relationship between high pressure and cumulative production, 
and nonlinear relationship between low pressure and cumula-
tive production. In general, the flow of shale gas involves the 
following processes: desorption of absorbed gas from the sur-
face of organic matter (which can be described by the Lang-
muir model); the desorbed gas entering pores, the gas in ma-
trix pores flowing into fracture systems through diffusion flow 
and slip flow (which can be described by Knudsen equation); 
the gas in the fractures flowing into the wellbore (which can 
be described by Darcy’s flow). Under the temperature and 
pressure conditions (82 C and 37.7 MPa) of the Fulin shale 
gas field, Darcy flow occurs in pores and fractures larger than 
100 nanometers, slip flow occurs in pores of 20 to 100 nano-
meters, slip flow and transition flow occur in nanopores of 1 
to 20 nanometers. Diffusion occurs in pores smaller than 1 
nanometer under low pressure.    
3.  Implications of the exploration and development 
of shale gas in China 
3.1.  The special geological conditions of shale gas in 
China  
Compared with the widely distributed marine shale gas in 
North America, mud shale of marine facies, transitional facies 
and continental facies of various types are developed in Chi-
na.  
3.1.1.  Marine shale gas 
Taking the Upper Ordovician–Lower Silurian Wufeng For-
mation–Longmaxi Formation and Lower Cambrian Qiong-
zhusi Formation as examples, these two sets of organic-rich 
shale strata have similar depositional environment, thickness, 
lithology, mineral composition, content of organic matter, and 
types of organic matter with the marine shale strata in North 
America.    
Marine shale strata in North America were formed in craton 
basins and foreland basins, with large-scale stable base and 
relatively simpler history of tectonic movement. The Chinese 
landmass, as a composite continent, consists of multiple small 
continental blocks, such as Sino-Korea, Yangtze, Tarim, etc., 
and orogenic belts, so it is characterized by unstable base and 
strong tectonic movements. For instance, the lower part of the 
Sichuan Basin is a Paleozoic craton basin, and the upper part 
is superimposed with Mesosoic and Cenozoic foreland basins. 
The Cambrian and Silurian shale strata therein have experi-
enced Caledonian, Hercynian, Yanshannian, and Himalayan 
tectonic movements. After the deep burial at 6 000 to 10 000 
m in late Yanshannian, these two sets of shale strata experi-
enced compression and tectonic uplift in Yanshannian and 
Himalayan. Not surprisingly, the geological conditions of 
marine shale gas in China differ widely from those in North 
America in two aspects.   
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 598 
(1) High degree of evolution. The thermal evolution of ma-
rine shale strata in North American regions follows the burial 
trend of present-day basins. From shallow to deep, the shale 
strata transit from premature to highly or over-mature, and 
contain oil, condensate oil, wet gas and dry gas, which is uni-
versal in all shale gas basins of North America. Thermal evo-
lution of shale and the distribution of areas of different ther-
mal evolution degrees are important study subjects of shale oil 
and gas research in North America. In the Sichuan Basin, 
Cambrian and Silurian shale are both in the dry gas generation 
window. There is no corresponding relationship between the 
present-day degree of thermal evolution and the current burial 
depth. The Wufeng Formation–Longmaxi Formation has Ro 
values between 1.5% and 3.5%, with an average of 2.5%. The 
Lower Cambrian Qiongzhusi Formation in Sichuan and 
Southern China has an average Ro of 3.5%, but lower Ro from 
2.0% to 2.5% in the Central Sichuan ancient uplift and its 
surrounding area.  
(2) Strong heterogeneity of shale gas accumulation. The 
shale gas basins in North America are simple in architecture, 
so shale gas favorable areas are often distributed continuously. 
In contrast, under multiphase tectonic movements, the or-
ganic-rich shale in China, for example, Wufeng–Longmaxi 
Formation in the Sichuan Basin, has been reformed by faults 
and folds of different orientations and ages and cut into multi-
ple structural blocks. Because different blocks are different in 
fracture development degree, fault nature, tectonic-burial his-
tory and present-day burial depth, the Wufeng–Longmaxi 
Formation shale in them are different in gas content, pressure 
coefficient and single well production after fracturing. In the 
north Guizhou region out of the Sichuan Basin, the Wufeng– 
Longmaxi Formation in the anticline region is exposed to the 
surface, shale gas is mostly enriched and distributed in iso-
lated syncline areas with normal pressure and low production 
per well. In the Sichuan Basin, high-quality shale in the 
Jiaoshiba anticline of Fuling Gas Field, influenced by tec-
tonization like faults, differs clearly in gas content and single 
well production in different zones[60] (Fig. 5).  
3.1.2.  Transitional and continental shale gas 
The oil and gas industry in China was initiated from conti-
nental facies. The widely developed source rocks of continen-
tal and transitional facies were once the main concern in the 
early research and assessment of shale gas. Gas testing of 
vertical wells and horizontals wells drilled in the eastern part 
of the Ordos Basin, in Yuanba, Fulin and Jiannan areas of the 
Sichuan Basin shows many wells are low and unstable in 
production. Compared with marine shale in North America, 
shale of continental and transitional facies is characterized by 
variations in shale quality.  
Shale of transitional facies often interbeds with coal and 
sandstone. The organic-rich shale layer has small thickness 
and rapid lateral change. The shale layers of transitional facies 
and coal strata mainly contain mixed-type and humic-type 
organic matter, and are characterized by high content of brittle 
minerals, and large proportion of water sensitive minerals in 
clay minerals. For instance, the fifth member of the Xujiahe 
Formation in western Sichuan has a quartz content of 33.2% 
to 52.9%, feldspar content of 3.0% to 20.9%, water sensitive 
minerals, illite/smectite, make up 12.7% to 22.0%, and Kao-
linite makes up 11.0% to 38.0% of the clay minerals. 
Continental shale strata are mainly distributed in the lacus-
trine deposits in the Mesozoic–Cenozoic basins in East China. 
With low degree of thermal evolution, they are mainly in the 
phase of oil generation, but in the center of the basin or areas 
deep buried, they may already enter into gas generation phase. 
For instance, in the Jiyang Depression of Bohai Bay Basin, 
the Paleogene organic-rich shale in gas generation window 
has a burial depth of more than 4 000 m. The continental mud 
shale is characterized by strong stratigraphic rhythmicity and 
frequent changes in lithology. Their TOC content is often pos-
itively correlated with the content of clay minerals. Similar to 
shale of transitional facies, their clay minerals have higher 
proportion of illite/smectite, so they are strongly water sensi-
tive.  
Because of the high content of water sensitive minerals in 
shale layers of continental and transitional facies, large-scale 
hydraulic fracturing often doesn’t have ideal results. New 
engineering technologies and associated equipment systems 
suitable for shale of continental facies and marine-continental 
transitional facies need to be developed.  
3.2.  Integrated geological, engineering and economic  
evaluation 
Through ten years of exploration and development, Chinese 
scholars’ understandings on shale gas, particularly marine 
shale gas advance significantly. Under thermal evolution, or-
ganic matter starts to generate hydrocarbon and forms nano- 
scale and micro-scale organic pores when reaching certain 
degree of maturity, providing storage space for methane mol-
ecules. Because of the high porosity and low permeability of 
shale, the shale gas reservoir is characterized by source 
rock-reservoir-cap in one. In the later period of structural ref-
ormation, particularly the tectonic uplifting, the stress state of 
shale varies, the amount of micro fractures increases, improv-
ing porosity and permeability. In this case, methane molecules 
in the nano-scale pores start to migrate, adjust and finally 
dissipate. Under the effects of tectonic compression, extension, 
uplifting, deep burial, and faulting, the shale gas accumulates 
in strong heterogeneity in the end. Shale gas reservoirs are 
man-made reservoirs, which must be fractured to get com-
mercial production, so the effect of fracturing determines the 
well production. Meanwhile, the shale gas reservoir is of mar-
ginal benefits, the best tradeoff between operation cost and 
well production is essential for the profitable development of 
shale gas. In the process of exploration and development of 
shale gas in China, we have come up with the integrated 
evaluation idea of evaluating “geological sweet spot”, “engi-
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 599 
neering sweet spot”, and “economic sweet spot” at the same 
time.    
3.2.1.  Evaluation of “geological sweet spot” 
The aim of the evaluation of “geological sweet spot” is to 
understand the spatial distribution of the most enriched shale 
gas. Through the research on depositional facies and organic 
geochemistry, the variation pattern of TOC, mineral composi-
tion and of porosity of the shale formation can be understood. 
Based on these studies, organic-rich shale intervals with cer-
tain continuous thickness, high TOC, high porosity, high gas 
content can be selected as “geological sweet spot intervals”. 
Meanwhile, areas where sweet intervals are thick, high in 
quality and good in preservation conditions can be selected as 
“geological sweet areas”  
3.2.2.  Evaluation of “engineering sweet spot” 
The goal of “engineering sweet spot” evaluation is to select 
the best layers and positions in the “geological sweet interval” 
and “geological sweet area” for horizontal well fracturing, so 
that best fracturing results can be reached, realizing high pro-
duction per well. Firstly, favorable areas for fracturing are 
selected from the geological sweet areas. Secondly, fracability 
assessment is carried out to find out the layer for horizontal 
well drilling with the best fracturing effect in the geological 
sweet interval. Thirdly, according to the present-day stress 
orientation, and results of detailed structural interpretation and 
fracture prediction, the orientation, length of the horizontal 
interval and trajectory control points of the horizontal well 
can be optimized. Fourthly, after the completion of a horizon-
tal well, based on the layers the horizontal well drilled 
through and fracability of the horizontal interval, the locations 
for staged fracturing and fracturing parameters of all stages 
are determined.  
3.2.3.  Evaluation of “economic sweet spot” 
The objective of the evaluation of “economic sweet spot” is 
to make technical policy of development through economic 
evaluation of operation parameters, to maximize the benefit of 
shale gas development. Theoretically, under the same geo-
logical conditions, the length of horizontal interval and scale 
of fracturing are proportional with well production. In practice, 
limited by operation capability, increase in the length of hori-
zontal interval and the scale of fracturing can add cost and 
difficulty of operation. Therefore, the operation costs of hori-
zontal intervals of different lengths and scales of fracturing 
and single well production need to be compared to get the best 
development policy (Fig. 6). In the Jiaoshiba region, experi-
ments on horizontal intervals of 1 000 m, 1 500 m and 2 000 
m show that the production of well with 1 500 m long hori-
zontal interval is much higher than that with 1 000 m long 
horizontal interval. Limited by the engineering operation ca-
pability, the well with 2 000 m long horizontal interval in-
creases largely in operation cost, meanwhile, because of the 
drop of completion quality, the production of this well is even 
 
Fig. 6.  Schematic map showing the relationship between the 
scale of engineering operation production per well and operation 
cost.   
lower than that of the well with 1 500 m long horizontal in-
terval. Therefore, the length of the horizontal interval for de-
velopment wells was determined to be 1 500 m. Through sta-
tistics on fracturing fluid volume and sand dosage per stage 
and well production, the best fracturing fluid volume and 
amount of sand added were determined.  
The successful exploration and development of shale gas are 
dependent on the collaborative research across different disci-
plines, integrated geological-engineering-economic evaluation 
and integrated implementation of exploration and develop-
ment engineering. 
3.3.  Prospects of China’s shale gas industry 
3.3.1.  Great resource prospects and numerous challenges 
The former Ministry of Land and Resources carried out 
multiple rounds of evaluation on the resource potential of 
China’s shale gas, and concluded that the recoverable re-
sources of shale gas were 10 to 32 trillion m3, the recoverable 
resources of marine shale gas were 8.2 to 13 trillion m3. The 
estimates of the recoverable resources of shale gas of transi-
tional facies and continental facies differ widely. Although 
Chinese researchers have different views on the resource po-
tential of shale gas in China, the basic consensus is that the 
recoverable shale gas resources are abundant.   
Through ten years of endeavor, shale gas industry in China 
has gained a solid start. Scaled commercial development of 
the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation above the depth of 3 500 m 
in the Sichuan Basin has been achieved. The rapid develop-
ment of shale gas industry is facing with numerous challenges. 
Marine shale strata in China are universally old-aged. The 
favorable areas of marine shale gas are distributed mostly 
more than 3 500 m deep in the Sichuan and Tarim basins. The 
organic-rich shale formations are widely distributed in south 
China. But affected by multiphase tectonic movements, they 
often have normal pressure coefficients and poor preservation 
conditions. For example, the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation, 
in the Sichuan Basin, its favorable areas less than 3 500 m 
deep and between 3 500 m and 4 500 m deep are more than  
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 600 
3 500 square kilometers and 2 000 square kilometers respec-
tively, with amount of resources of more than 2.6×1012 m3 and 
10×1012 m3 respectively[6869]. Outside of the Sichuan Basin, in 
the remaining syncline areas in the north Guizhou region, the 
resources of shale gas are about 2 to 8 trillion m3. Shale gas 
resource in deep strata with normal pressure is difficult to 
develop profitably with the current engineering technology. 
Though shale gas flow has been obtained in some wells from 
the Cambrian, Permian shale of marine, continental, and tran-
sitional facies, actual breakthrough in commercial develop-
ment has not been achieved. The production regularities, de-
velopment technologies and policies remain to be explored. In 
China, 67% of shale gas favorable areas are located in hills 
and mountain regions with fragile ecology, so the require-
ments on environmental protection are high, plus the lack of 
natural gas networks, making the profitable development of 
shale gas more challenging.  
3.3.2.  Recommendations for developing shale gas industry 
(1) Srengthen fundamental research to achieve new break-
through on the geological theory of shale gas. In terms of the 
sedimentary research, the distribution characteristics of or-
ganic-rich shale of the Longmaxi–Wufeng Formation have 
made significant progress. Distribution pattern of other or-
ganic rich formations in Cambrian marine facies, transitional 
facies and continental facies needs deeper investigation. Re-
garding the storage mechanism of shale reservoirs, prelimi-
nary understanding have been gained in the development of 
organic pores under thermal evolution and the relationship 
between the enrichment of shale gas and organic pores. How-
ever, the current conclusions are drawn mainly through ob-
servation and statistical analysis, the intrinsic mechanism re-
mains to be explored. Regarding the enrichment characteris-
tics of shale gas, enrichment rules of shale gas in normally 
pressured deep marine strata, and continental and transitional 
strata need to be examined further. Fracability study of mud 
shale is weak in the fundamental research of both geology and 
engineering of shale gas. Further study requires the integra-
tion of geology and engineering related disciplines, and the 
establishment of research direction of multiple disciplines. 
Evaluation system and standard should be built for the eco-
nomic evaluation of shale gas.  
(2) Reinforce exploration practices to have all-round dis-
coveries in multiple strata. As the exploration in the Silurian 
strata of the Sichuan basin advances, new discoveries in 
Cambrian and Permian strata are under expectation. Recently, 
in the Jingyan–Jianwei area at the west margin of the 
Changning–Mianyang tensional trough [70,71] , Well Jinshi 1 
and Jinye 1 drilled have proved the Changning–Mianyang 
tensional trough is the favorable area for Lower Cambrian 
organic-rich shale[72]. Well Jinye 1 tested a daily gas produc-
tion of 59.5 thousand m3 from the Lower Cambrian 
Qiongzhusi Formation, showing good exploration prospects. 
Two organic-rich shale zones have been confirmed in the 
Permian strata recently. The cores sampled from Well Dong-
Dongyeshen 1 contain dark mud shale with higher gas content. 
Through systematic research on sweet intervals and layers for 
horizontal wells, breakthroughs in Cambrian and Permian 
strata are expected. At the same time, fundamental research in 
the Yichang and Guizhong regions should be paid more atten-
tion to, so that discoveries in new areas of marine shale can be 
obtained. Shale gas flows have been acquired in transitional 
and continental facies in the Daanzhai Member, Dongyuemiao 
Member in the Jurassic Ziliujing Formation in the Sichuan 
Basin, in the Triassic Yanchang Formation and the Carbonif-
erous Shanxi Formation in the Ordos Basin, in the Lower 
Cretacious Yingcheng Formation in the Lishu Sag in the 
northeastern China. Referring to the exploration idea of ma-
rine shale, sweet spot intervals and areas in shale, mud lime-
stone and coal strata need to be sorted out by strengthening 
research.  
(3) Study the regularities of development and production, to 
establish new models of shale gas development. Further stud-
ies on dynamic analysis of development wells should be pro-
moted. The development and production systems for shale of 
different types and pressure coefficients should be established. 
New development models for man- made gas reservoirs are to 
be established. Lessons should be drawn from the 
three-dimensional development model established in North 
America. Three dimensional development in upper and lower 
gas-bearing intervals of the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation, in 
the Cambrian, Silurian, Permian and Jurassic strata in the 
Sichuan Basin remains to be explored.    
(4) Think creatively to invent new technologies to tackle 
key problems. In terms of geophysical technology, “sweet 
spot” prediction techniques, such as prediction of formation 
pressure and fracture, sealing capability of faults, and identi-
fication of high TOC content should be tackled. More re-
search on fracturing technologies for deep strata and low-cost 
fracturing in normally pressured regions should be carried out. 
In light of the high content of clay minerals and strong wa-
ter-sensitivity of continental and transitional shale strata, new 
fracturing technologies such as supercritical carbon dioxide 
fracturing and the associated equipment system should be 
further studied. Development of information and digital tech-
nologies should be stepped up. Researchers abroad hold that 
efficient utilization of information and digital technology can 
improve the production efficiency significantly, reduce about 
20% of the capital expenditure, and lower the management 
cost of the upstream by about 3% to 5%. At the same time, 
tracking the cutting edge technology such as nano-technology, 
graphene, quantum and man-made intelligence is important, 
so that subversive technology can be developed.  
(5) Explore management innovation to form new mecha-
nisms in shale gas development. While oil companies are 
utilizing new technologies to improve efficiency and lower 
operation cost, more focus should be put on optimizing engi-
neering design and management workflow. The market 
mechanism should be utilized efficiently, the management on 
contractors and supply chains should be improved, so that the 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 601 
cost can be reduced in every aspect. The cooperation and de-
velopment mechanism of investors can be established at the 
country level. Experiences can be shared and communicated, 
trials of new technologies and application mechanisms should 
be encouraged. Security, environmental protection manage-
ment and surveillance mechanism should be improved so that 
the environment for rapid growth of shale gas industry can be 
created.   
4.  Conclusions 
Since the initiation of China’s shale gas exploration in 2009, 
the commercialized shale gas development in marine shale of 
the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formation has been realized, making 
China one of the few countries that have developed shale gas 
in industrial scale. 
After nearly ten years of persistent research, major progress 
has been made in the understanding on major factors control-
ling gas enrichment and high production of marine shale rep-
resented by the successful development of the Wufeng–Long-
maxi Formation. The development of shale gas of the Wufeng 
Formation–Longmaxi Formation in the Sichuan Basin, which 
can be summarized into the following aspects: depositional 
environment and depositional process control the distribution 
of organic-rich shale; high quality shale layers in “sweet spot 
intervals” are commonly characterized by high content of 
organic carbon, high brittleness, high porosity and gas content; 
organic pores are important storage space for the enrichment 
of shale gas; preservation condition is the key factor in the 
geological evaluation of shale gas in structurally complex re-
gions; shale gas reservoirs can be considered as “man-made gas 
reservoirs” and fracability assessment is essential for high- 
production; nanoscale storage space and the occurrence state 
of shale gas make seepage characteristics of shale gas special. 
The successful exploration and development of shale gas 
are dependent on the collaborative research across different 
disciplines, the integrated geological-engineering-economic 
evaluation and the integrated implementation of exploration 
and development engineering. 
China’s shale gas industry has great resource potentials and 
numerous challenges. We recommend the following for the 
rapid development of China’s shale gas industry: (1) streng-
then fundamental research to achieve new breakthrough in the 
geological theory of shale gas; (2) reinforce exploration prac-
tices to get all-round discoveries in multiple strata; (3) study 
the regularities of development and production to establish 
new models of shale gas development; (4) think creatively to 
invent new technologies to tackle key problems; (5) explore 
management innovation to create new mechanisms in shale 
gas development. 
Acknowledegments 
The authors thank HU Zongquan, FENG Dongjun, YI Jiz-
heng, WANG Feng and DENG Shang for their help in this 
study. 
References 
[1] 
Chinese Academy of Sciences. 2014 high technology devel-
opment report. Beijing: Science Press, 2014. 
[2] 
ZOU Caineng. Unconventional petroleum geology. Beijing: 
Geological Publishing House, 2013. 
[3] 
ZHANG Dawei, LI Yuxi, ZHANG Jinchuan, et al. Shale gas 
resources. Beijing: Geological Publishing House, 2012. 
[4] 
LUO Zhetan. Development prospects of the natural gas re-
sources in our country. Natural Gas Industry, 1986, 6(3): 1–4. 
[5] 
SONG Yan. The distribution characteristics of natural gas and 
the exploration of unconventional natural gas in the United 
States. Natural Gas Geoscience, 1990, 1(1): 14–16. 
[6] 
GUAN Deshi, NIU Jiayu, GUO Li’na, et al. Unconventional 
petroleum and gas geology of China. Beijing: Petroleum In-
dustry Press, 1995. 
[7] 
XIE Kechang, QIU Zhongjian, JIN Qinghuan, et al. The de-
velopment and utilization strategy of unconventional natural 
gas in China. Beijing: Science Press, 2014. 
[8] 
DONG Dazhong, WANG Yuman, LI Xinjing, et al. Break-
through and prospect of shale gas exploration and develop-
ment in China. Natural Gas Industry, 2016, 36(1): 19–32. 
[9] 
DONG Dazhong, GAO Shikui, HUANG Jinliang, et al. A 
discussion on the shale gas exploration & development pros-
pect in the Sichuan Basin. Natural Gas Industry, 2014, 34(12): 
1–15. 
[10] WANG Zhigang. Breakthrough of Fuling shale gas explora-
tion and development and its inspiration. Oil & Gas Geology, 
2015, 36(1): 1–6. 
[11] MA Yongsheng, FENG Jianhui, MU Zehui, et al. The potential 
and exploring progress of unconventional hydrocarbon re-
sources in SINOPEC. Engineering Sciences, 2012, 14(6): 
22–29. 
[12] ZOU Caineng, DONG Dazhong, WANG Yuman, et al. Shale 
gas in China: Characteristics, challenges and prospects (Ⅱ). 
Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2016, 43(2): 
166–177. 
[13] WANG Xiangzeng. Advances in unconventional gas explora-
tion and development of Yanchang Petroleum Group. Acta Pe-
trolei Sinica, 2016, 37(1): 137–144. 
[14] ZHAI Gangyi, BAO Shujing, WANG Yufang, et al. Reservoir 
accumulation model at the edge of palaeohigh and significant 
discovery of shale gas in Yichang area, Hubei Province. Acta 
Geoscientica Sinica, 2017, 38(4): 441–447. 
[15] Ministry of Land and Resources of the People’s Republic of 
China. China petroleum and natural gas exploration and ex-
ploitation Bulletin (2016). (2017-07-10)[2018-03-10]. http:// 
www.mlr.gov.cn/zwgk/zytz/201707/t20170710_1524826.htm. 
[16] GUO Xusheng. Rules of two-factor enrichment for marine 
shale gas in southern China: Understanding from the Long-
maxi Formation shale gas in Sichuan Basin and its surround-
ing area. Acta Geologica Sinica, 2014, 88(7): 1209–1218. 
[17] GUO Xusheng, HU Dongfeng, WEN Zhidong, et al. Major 
factors controlling the accumulation and high productivity in 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 602 
marine shale gas in the Lower Paleozoic of Sichuan Basin and 
its periphery: A case study of the Wufeng—Longmaxi Forma-
tion of Jiaoshiba area. Geology in China, 2014, 41(3): 
893–901. 
[18] GUO Tonglou, ZHANG Hanrong. Formation and enrichment 
mode of Jiaoshiba shale gas field, Sichuan Basin. Petroleum 
Exploration and Development, 2014, 41(1): 28–36. 
[19] JIN Zhijun, HU Zongquan, GAO Bo, et al. Controlling factors 
on the enrichment and high productivity of shale gas in the 
Wufeng— Longmaxi Formations, southeastern Sichuan Basin. 
Earth Science Frontiers, 2016, 23(1): 1–10. 
[20] HE Zhiliang, NIE Haikuan, ZHANG Yuying. The main factors 
of shale gas enrichment of Ordovician Wufeng Forma-
tiom—Silurian Longmaxi Formation in the Sichuan Basin and 
its adjacent areas. Earth Science Frontiers, 2016, 23(2): 8–17. 
[21] ZOU Caineng, DONG Dazhong, WANG Yuman, et al. Shale 
gas in China: Characteristics, challenges and prospects (I). Pe-
troleum Exploration and Development, 2015, 42(6): 689–701. 
[22] ZHAO Wenzhi, LI Jianzhong, YANG Tao, et al. Geological 
difference and its significance of marine shale gases in south 
China. Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2016, 43(4): 
499–510. 
[23] LIANG Digang, GUO Tonglou, CHEN Jianping, et al. Some 
progresses on studies of hydrocarbon generation and accumu-
lation in marine sedimentary regions, southern China (Part 1): 
Distribution of four suits of regional marine source rocks. Ma-
rine Origin Petroleum Geology, 2008, 13(2): 1–16. 
[24] LIANG Digang, GUO Tonglou, BIAN Lizeng, et al. Some 
progresses on studies of hydrocarbon generation and accumu-
lation in marine sedimentary regions, southern China (Part 3): 
Controlling factors on the sedimentary facies and development 
of Palaeozoic marine source rocks. Marine Origin Petroleum 
Geology, 2009, 14(2): 1–19. 
[25] FAN Junxuan, MELCHIN M J, CHEN Xu, et al. Biostrati-
graphy and geography of the Ordovician-Silurian Lungmachi 
black shales in South China. SCIENCE CHINA Earth Sci-
ences, 2011, 54(12): 1854–1863. 
[26] CHEN Xu, RONG Jiayu, FAN Junxuan, et al. A final report on 
the global stratotype section and point (GSSP) for the 
Hirnantian stage (upper Ordovician). Journal of Stratigraphy, 
2006, 30(4): 289–307. 
[27] CHEN 
Xu, 
FAN 
Junxuan, 
WANG 
Wenhui, 
et 
al. 
Stage-progressive distribution pattern of the Lungmachi black 
graptolitic shales from Guizhou to Chongqing, Central China. 
SCIENCE CHINA Earth Sciences, 2017, 60(6): 1133–1146. 
[28] POTTER P E, MAYNARD J B, DEPETRIS P J. Mud and 
mudstones: Introduction and overview. Berlin: Springer-Ver-
lag, 2005: 23–74. 
[29] ALGEO T J, LYONS T W. Mo-total organic carbon covaria-
tion in modern anoxic marine environments: Implications for 
analysis of paleoredox and paleohydrographic conditions. Pa-
leoceanography, 2006, 21: 1–23. 
[30] GUO Xusheng. Sequence stratigraphy and evolution model of 
the Wufeng-Longmaxi shale in the Upper Yangtze Area. Earth 
Science, 2017, 42(7): 1069–1082. 
[31] NIE Haikuan, JIN Zhijun, MA Xin, et al. Graptolites zone and 
sedimentary characteristics of Upper Ordovician Wufeng 
Formation-Lower Silurian Longmaxi Formation in Sichuan. 
Acta Petrolei Sinica, 2017, 38(2): 160–174. 
[32] WANG Yuman, DONG Dazhong, LI Xinjing, et al. Strati-
graphic sequence and sedimentary characteristics of Lower 
Silurian Longmaxi Formation in the Sichuan Basin and its pe-
ripheral areas. Natural Gas Industry, 2015, 35(3): 12–21. 
[33] SU Wenbo, LI Zhiming, CHEN Jianqiang, et al. A reliable 
example for Eustacy Ordovician sequence stratigraphy on the 
southeastern margin of the upper Yangtze Platform. Acta 
Sedimentologica Sinica, 1999, 17(3): 345–354. 
[34] SU Wenbo, LI Zhiming, FRANK R E, et al. Distribution of 
black shale in the Wufeng–Longmaxi Formations (Ordovi-
cian-Silurian), South China: Major controlling factors and im-
plications. Earth Science, 2007, 32(6): 819–827. 
[35] ZHAO Jianhua, JIN Zhijun, JIN Zhenkui, et al. Lithofacies 
types and sedimentary environment of shale in Wufeng- 
Longmaxi Formation, Sichuan Basin. Acta Petrolei Sinica, 
2016, 37(5): 572–586. 
[36] TENGER, SHEN Baojian, YU Lingjie, et al. Mechanisms of 
shale gas generation and accumulation in the Ordovician 
Wufeng- Longmaxi Formation, Sichuan Basin, SW China. Pe-
troleum Exploration and Development, 2017, 44(1): 69–78. 
[37] SHEN Baojian, YANG Yunfeng, TENGER, et al. Characteris-
tics and hydrocarbon significance of the organic matter in the 
Jiaoshiba structure, Sichuan Basin: A case study of the 
Wufeng-Longmaxi formations in well Jiaoye 1. Petroleum 
Geology & Experiment, 2016, 38(4): 480–488. 
[38] TISSOT B P, WELTE D H. Petroleum formation and occur-
rence: A new approach to oil and gas exploration. Berlin: 
Springer-Verlag, 1978.  
[39] QIN Jianzhong, SHEN Baojian, TAO Guoliang, et al. Hydro-
carbon forming organisms and dynamic evaluation of hydro-
carbon generation capacity in excellent source rocks. Petro-
leum Geology & Experiment, 2014, 36(4): 465–472. 
[40] LIU Wenhui, BORJIGIN Tenger, WANG Xiaofeng, et al. 
New knowledge of hydrocarbon generating theory of organic 
matter in Chinese marine carbonates. Petroleum Exploration 
and Development, 2017, 41(1): 155–164. 
[41] WANG Zhigang, SUN Jian. The result of development test 
well of Fuling shale gas field. Beijing: SINOPEC Press, 2015. 
[42] SUN Jian, BAO Hanyong. Comprehensive characterization of 
shale gas reservoirs: A case study from Fuling shale gas field. 
Petroleum Geology & Experiment, 2018, 40(1): 1–12. 
[43] CURTIS M E, SONDERGELD C H, AMBROSE R J, et al. 
Microstructural investigation of gas shales in two and three 
dimensions using nanometer-scale resolution imaging. AAPG 
Bulletin, 2012, 96(4): 665–677. 
[44] GUO Xusheng, LI Yuping, LIU Ruobing, et al. Characteristics 
and controlling factors of micro-pore structures of Longmaxi 
shale play in the Jiaoshiba area, Sichuan Basin. Natural Gas 
Industry, 2014, 34(6): 9–16. 
MA Yongsheng et al. / Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(4): 589–603 
 
 
 603 
[45] WEI Zhihong, WEI Xiangfeng. Comparison of gas-bearing 
property between different pore types of shale: A case from 
the Upper Ordovician Wufeng and Longmaxi Formations in 
the Jiaoshiba area, Sichuan Basin. Natural Gas Industry, 2014, 
34(6): 37–41. 
[46] XU Huaixian. Naitonal Standard GB/T 31483—2015 builds 
geological evaluation specification for shell gas. Petroleum 
Exploration and Development, 2016, 43(1): 76. 
[47] WEI Zhihong. Difference of organic pores in organic matter: 
A case from graptolite shales of Wufeng Formation—Long-
maxi Formation in Sichuan Basin, China. Journal of Chengdu 
University of Technology, 2015, 42(3): 361–365. 
[48] CURTIS M E, CARDOTT B J, SONDERGELD C H, et al. 
Development of organic porosity in the Woodford Shale with 
increasing thermal maturity. International Journal of Coal Ge-
ology, 2012, 103(23): 26–31. 
[49] MASTALERZ M, SCHIMMELMANN A, DROBNIAK A, et 
al. Porosity of Devonian and Mississippian new Albany shale 
across a maturation gradient: Insights from organic petrology, 
gas adsorption, and mercury intrusion. AAPG Bulletin, 2013, 
97(10): 1621–1643. 
[50] MA Zhongliang, ZHENG Lunju, XU Xuhui, et al. Thermal 
simulation experiment on the formation and evolution of or-
ganic pores in organic-rich shale. Acta Petrolei Sinica, 2017, 
38(1): 23–30. 
[51] DONG Chunmei, MA Cunfei, LUAN Guoqiang, et al. Pyroly-
sis simulation experiment and diagenesis evolution pattern of 
shale. Acta Sedimentologica Sinica, 2015, 33(5): 1053–1061. 
[52] HU Haiyan. Porosity evolution of the organic-rich shale with 
thermal maturity increasing. Acta Petrolei Sinica, 2013, 34(5): 
820–825. 
[53] WANG Feiyu, GUAN Jing, FENG Weiping, et al. Evolution 
of overmature marine shale porosity and implication to the 
free gas volume. Petroleum Exploration and Development, 
2013, 40(6): 764–768. 
[54] LIU Wenping, ZHANG Chenglin, GAO Guidong, et al. Con-
trolling factors and evolution laws of shale porosity in Long-
maxi Formation, Sichuan Basin. Acta Petrolei Sinica, 2017, 
38(2): 175–184. 
[55] WANG Yuman, DONG Dazhong, CHENG Xiangzhi, et al. 
Electric property evidences of the carbonification of organic 
matters in marine shales and its geologic significance: A case 
of the Lower Cambrian Qiongzhusi shale in southern Sichuan 
Basin. Natural Gas Industry, 2014, 34(8): 1–7. 
[56] MILLIKEN K L, RUDNICKI M, DAVID N, et al. Organic 
matter-hosted pore system, Marcellus Formation (Devonian), 
Pennsylvania. AAPG Bulletin, 2013, 97(2): 177–200. 
[57] LIU Yaowen, WANG Jin, ZHANG Mengyin, et al. Pore fea-
tures of shale gas layer in Wufeng－Longmaxi formations in 
Fuling area of Sichuan Basin and the application to develop-
ment. Petroleum Geology & Experiment, 2018, 40(1): 44–47. 
[58] YUAN Yusong, ZHOU Yan, QIU Dengfeng, et al. Formation 
mechanism and characteristics of non-tectonic fractures in 
shales. Geoscience, 2016, 30(1): 155–162. 
[59] HUANG Renchun, WEI Xiangfeng, WANG Qiang. Key fac-
tors of shale gas accumulation in Dingshan area of southeast-
ern Sichuan Basin. Marine Origin Petroleum Geology, 2017, 
22(2): 25–30. 
[60] SUN Jian, LUO Bing. Structural deformation and its influ-
ences on gas storage in Fuling shale gas play, the Sichuan Ba-
sin. Oil & Gas Geology, 2016, 37(6): 809–818. 
[61] LIU Honglin, WANG Hongyan, FANG Chaohe, et al. The 
formation mechanism of over-pressure reservoir and target 
screening index of the marine shale in the South China. Earth 
Science Frontiers, 2016, 23(2): 48–54. 
[62] YU Lingjie, FAN Ming, TENGER, et al. Study of shale gas 
storage occurrence under burial conditions. Petroleum Geol-
ogy & Experiment, 2016, 38(4): 438–444. 
[63] HU Huiting, WANG Long, LIU Yan, et al. Research method 
of fault vertical sealing capacity in overpressure mudstone 
caprock and its application. Oil & Gas Geology, 2014, 35(3): 
359–364. 
[64] HU Degao, LIU Chao. Geological factors of well fracability in 
Fuling shale gas field, Sichuan Basin. Petroleum Geology ＆
Experiment, 2018, 40(1): 20–24. 
[65] CHEN Zuo, XUE Chengjin, JIANG Tingxue, et al. Proposals 
for the application of fracturing by stimulated reservoir vol-
ume (SRV) in shale gas wells in China. Natural Gas Industry, 
2010, 30(10): 30–34. 
[66] JIA Changgui, LI Shuangming, WANG Haitao, et al. Shale 
reservoir network fracturing technology research and ex-
periment. Engineering Sciences, 2012, 14(6): 106–112. 
[67] LIU Naizhen, WANG Guoyong. Shale gas sweet spot identi-
fication and precise geo-steering drilling in Weiyuan Block of 
Sichuan Basin, SW China. Petroleum Exploration and Devel-
opment, 2016, 43(6): 978–985. 
[68] MA Xinhua, XIE Jun. The progress and prospects of shale gas 
exploration and exploitation in southern Sichuan Basin, SW 
China. Petroleum Exploration and Development, 2018, 45(1): 
161–169. 
[69] ZOU Caineng, DONG Dazhong, WANG Shejiao, et al. Geo-
logical characteristics, formation mechanism and resource po-
tential of shale gas in China. Petroleum Exploration and De-
velopment, 2010, 37(6): 641–653. 
[70] DU Jinhu, ZOU Caineng, XU Chunchun, et al. Theoretical 
and technical innovations in strategic discovery of huge gas 
fields in Longwangmiao Formation of central Sichuan pa-
leo-uplift, Sichuan Basin. Petroleum Exploration and Devel-
opment, 2014, 41(3): 268–277. 
[71] LIU Shugen, SUN Wei, LUO Zhili, et al. Xingkai taphrogene-
sis and petroleum exploration from Upper Sinian to Cambrian 
Strata in Sichuan Basin, China. Journal of Chengdu University 
of Technology (Science & Technology Edition), 2013, 40(5): 
511–520. 
[72] YAN Jihong, LI Qigui, ZHU Xiang. Main factors controlling 
shale gas accumulation and exploration targets in the Lower 
Cambrian, Sichuan Basin and its periphery. Petroleum Geol-
ogy & Experiment, 2016, 38(4): 445–452. 
 
