<quotes>

[1] "The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase changes the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface. From a microscopic perspective, the incorporation of catalytically inert or less-active metals (N) into the surface lattice of the parent active metal (M) decreases the coordination number of the surface MM shell and the size of M ensembles. Therefore, adsorption and/or reactions that require multifold sites or large ensembles are less favored on the alloyed surface, increasing the selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an ensemble effect. (279) In addition, a sufficient reduction in the ensemble size is referred to as site isolation. (95, 96) As mentioned occasionally in section 3, ensemble effects have been frequently associated with various selective conversions."
[2] "The electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment."
[3] "Thus, we here show that the electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment."
[4] "In summary, we showed two examples of novel steric effects governed by specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds. These effects and selective conversions rely strongly on the specific and ordered surface atomic arrangement, and hence, they are surely functions that only intermetallic compounds can perform. Although only a few examples have been discovered as of yet, future investigations will bring similar observations and open up a new horizon for this area of chemistry."
[5] "The major difference between intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys is whether the structure is ordered or disordered. Therefore, if the catalytic performance of an ordered alloy is superior to that of a disordered alloy with identical metal compositions and crystal systems, the resulting improvement should be termed ordering effect."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance by changing the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase can decrease the coordination number of the surface and the size of metal ensembles, leading to increased selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an ensemble effect. The electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. The electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment. Steric effects governed by specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds can also influence catalytic performance. These effects and selective conversions rely strongly on the specific and ordered surface atomic arrangement, and hence, they are surely functions that only intermetallic compounds can perform. The ordering effect, which is the improvement in catalytic performance of an ordered alloy compared to a disordered alloy with identical metal compositions and crystal systems, is another factor that can influence catalytic performance. Innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts by carefully choosing the bimetallic combination and composition to control the electronic and geometric properties of the catalyst.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应可以通过改变催化剂表面的几何环境和修改活性金属的电子状态来协同影响催化性能。合金或金属间相的形成可以降低表面的配位数和金属集合体的大小，从而增加对允许反应的选择性。这种几何效应被称为集合效应。活性金属的电子状态可以通过形成金属间相而发生剧烈变化和/或被控制，从而提高催化性能。电子状态可以通过适当选择第二种金属来控制，这是开发良好设计的反应环境所必需的。由金属间化合物的特定表面结构控制的立体效应也可以影响催化性能。这些效应和选择性转化强烈依赖于特定和有序的表面原子排列，因此，它们肯定是只有金属间化合物才能执行的功能。有序合金与具有相同金属组成和晶体系统的无序合金相比，催化性能的提高，被称为有序效应，是另一个可能影响催化性能的因素。为了利用这种相互作用，开发更高效、更选择性和可调的催化系统，以超越传统的单金属催化剂，可以通过仔细选择双金属组合和组成来控制催化剂的电子和几何性质，从而制定创新策略。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
