<quotes>

[1] "A number of chemical transformations using intermetallic catalysts have been surveyed and classified into three major divisionshydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming and various subsections."
[2] "The fundamental roles of intermetallic phases obtained from this survey were categorized into four types of effects: (a) electronic, (b) geometric, (c) steric, and (d) ordering effects."
[3] "Thus, intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials capable of creating a well-designed reaction environment and suitable for developing efficient catalytic systems."
[4] "In bimetallic systems, two types of metals are present in various states, such as alloys, (4, 5) coreshell structures, (6, 7) and metaloxide composites. (6, 7)"
[5] "Alloys are classified into two categories depending on their structure: solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds."
[6] "The former, typically substitutional solid-solution alloys, consist of metals of similar atomic size and electronic character with a crystal structure identical to that of the parent metal with random atomic arrangements (Figure 1a)."
[7] "If the atoms of one element is sufficiently small to fit within the lattice void of the counterpart element, interstitial solid-solution alloys can be formed (Figure 1b)."
[8] "The latter involves the opposite situation to Figure 1a, where the component metals have significantly different characters and comprise distinct crystal structures with highly ordered atomic arrangements (Figure 1c)."
[9] "In general, the similarity of two metals can be roughly estimated by their relative positions in the periodic table."
[10] "As is well-known, solid-solution alloys have been extensively tested as catalyst materials for a long time."
[11] "In contrast, intermetallic compounds have been investigated for their applications to bulk materials with unique physical properties such as superconductivity, (14, 15) shape-memory effects, (16) and hydrogen storage capability. (17, 18)"
[12] "However, until recently, they have rarely been studied for use in catalytic reactions, leaving a so-called blue ocean area for developments in the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts."
[13] "This situation is clearly represented in Figure 2, which shows the annual increase in the number of publications on alloys and intermetallic catalysts."
[14] "Note that the actual numbers of the corresponding studies may be much longer than those shown in Figure 2, which only roughly reflects the trend in research."
[15] "The upward trend for alloy catalysts follows that for metallic catalysts, although the total number is not as high."
[16] "This upward trend is particularly prominent after 2000, making the chemistry of bimetallic catalysis as a hot topic."
[17] "In contrast, the number of literature works on intermetallic catalysts is much smaller than that of alloy or metal catalysts."
[18] "However, the recent increase in publications suggests that this field has also received growing attention."
[19] "Moreover, the insights obtained from these studies suggest that the potential of intermetallic compounds for catalyst materials is high compared to conventional inorganic catalyst materials."
[20] "To facilitate development and work toward establishing the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts in the near future, it is necessary to produce and share a comprehensive understanding about (1) what intermetallic catalysts can do, (2) their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and (3) their advantages over other inorganic materials."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Intermetallic compounds have been classified into three major categories: hydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming. The fundamental roles of intermetallic phases have been categorized into four types of effects: electronic, geometric, steric, and ordering effects. Intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials capable of creating a well-designed reaction environment and suitable for developing efficient catalytic systems. In bimetallic systems, two types of metals are present in various states, such as alloys, coreshell structures, and metaloxide composites. Alloys are classified into two categories depending on their structure: solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds. Solid-solution alloys consist of metals of similar atomic size and electronic character with a crystal structure identical to that of the parent metal with random atomic arrangements. If the atoms of one element are sufficiently small to fit within the lattice void of the counterpart element, interstitial solid-solution alloys can be formed. Intermetallic compounds involve the opposite situation, where the component metals have significantly different characters and comprise distinct crystal structures with highly ordered atomic arrangements. The similarity of two metals can be roughly estimated by their relative positions in the periodic table. Solid-solution alloys have been extensively tested as catalyst materials for a long time. In contrast, intermetallic compounds have been investigated for their applications to bulk materials with unique physical properties such as superconductivity, shape-memory effects, and hydrogen storage capability. However, until recently, they have rarely been studied for use in catalytic reactions, leaving a so-called blue ocean area for developments in the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts. The number of publications on alloys and intermetallic catalysts has increased annually, with the upward trend for alloy catalysts following that for metallic catalysts, although the total number is not as high. This upward trend is particularly prominent after 2000, making the chemistry of bimetallic catalysis a hot topic. In contrast, the number of literature works on intermetallic catalysts is much smaller than that of alloy or metal catalysts. However, the recent increase in publications suggests that this field has also received growing attention. Moreover, the insights obtained from these studies suggest that the potential of intermetallic compounds for catalyst materials is high compared to conventional inorganic catalyst materials. To facilitate development and work toward establishing the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts in the near future, it is necessary to produce and share a comprehensive understanding about what intermetallic catalysts can do, their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and their advantages over other inorganic materials.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.间金属化合物已被分类为三个主要类别：氢化/脱氢，氧化和蒸汽重整。间金属相的基本作用已被分类为四种类型的效果：电子，几何，立体和排序效果。间金属化合物是有希望的无机催化剂材料，能够创建精心设计的反应环境，并适合开发高效的催化系统。在双金属系统中，两种类型的金属以各种状态存在，例如合金，核心壳结构和金属氧化物复合物。合金根据其结构分为两类：固溶合金和间金属化合物。固溶合金由具有相似原子大小和电子特性的金属组成，具有与母金属相同的晶体结构和随机原子排列。如果一个元素的原子足够小，可以适应另一个元素的晶格空隙，则可以形成间隙固溶合金。间金属化合物涉及相反的情况，其中组分金属具有显著不同的特性，并且具有高度有序的原子排列的独立晶体结构。两种金属的相似性可以通过它们在周期表中的相对位置粗略估计。众所周知，固溶合金长期以来一直被广泛用作催化剂材料进行测试。相比之下，间金属化合物已被研究用于具有独特物理性质的块状材料的应用，例如超导性，形状记忆效应和氢储存能力。然而，直到最近，它们很少被研究用于催化反应，为间金属催化剂化学的发展留下了一个所谓的蓝海区域。合金和间金属催化剂的出版物数量每年都在增加，合金催化剂的上升趋势遵循金属催化剂的趋势，尽管总数并不高。这种上升趋势在2000年之后尤为突出，使双金属催化化学成为一个热门话题。相比之下，关于间金属催化剂的文献作品数量远低于合金或金属催化剂。然而，最近出版物数量的增加表明，该领域也受到了越来越多的关注。此外，从这些研究中获得的见解表明，间金属化合物作为催化剂材料的潜力高于传统的无机催化剂材料。为了促进发展并朝着在不久的将来建立间金属催化剂化学的方向努力，有必要产生并分享关于间金属催化剂可以做什么，它们在增强催化作用中的基本作用以及它们相对于其他无机材料的优势的全面理解。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
