<quotes>

[1] "The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase changes the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface. From a microscopic perspective, the incorporation of catalytically inert or less-active metals (N) into the surface lattice of the parent active metal (M) decreases the coordination number of the surface MM shell and the size of M ensembles. Therefore, adsorption and/or reactions that require multifold sites or large ensembles are less favored on the alloyed surface, increasing the selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an ensemble effect. (279) In addition, a sufficient reduction in the ensemble size is referred to as site isolation. (95, 96) As mentioned occasionally in section 3, ensemble effects have been frequently associated with various selective conversions."
[2] "The term ligand effect is used for a change in the catalytic or adsorption properties by modification of the electronic states of the parent metal on alloying with a second metal. (278) Historically, this term was coined to indicate an electronic perturbation by neighboring second metal atoms against a long-range electronic effect. (279) However, these days, this term has been used almost synonymously with electronic effects. (278, 280) The degree of modification depends strongly on the nature and composition of the second metal. In general, a drastic change in the electronic state critically affects the heat of adsorption and the activation barrier, thereby altering catalytic activity and/or selectivity."
[3] "Thus, we here show that the electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment."
[4] "For ensemble effects, the second metal atom is present as a spacer that separates the active metal atoms. In contrast, for some intermetallic catalysts, the second metal atom acts as a chemically functional site, such as an anchoring site for alcohols, carbonyl groups, or molecular oxygen. This allows preferential adsorption of specific molecules (or functional groups) and/or spatial separation of the other molecule or group that should be protected from the active metal, promoting the desired reaction. Therefore, this kind of effect, termed site addition, can also be categorized as a geometric effect."
[5] "The major difference between intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys is whether the structure is ordered or disordered. Therefore, if the catalytic performance of an ordered alloy is superior to that of a disordered alloy with identical metal compositions and crystal systems, the resulting improvement should be termed ordering effect."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance by changing the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface and modifying the electronic states of the parent metal. The ensemble effect, a geometric effect, decreases the coordination number of the surface and the size of metal ensembles, increasing selectivity for allowed reactions. The ligand effect, an electronic effect, changes the catalytic or adsorption properties by modifying the electronic states of the parent metal. The electronic state of the active metal can be controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases and the choice of the second metal. The site addition effect, a geometric effect, allows preferential adsorption of specific molecules and spatial separation of other molecules, promoting the desired reaction. The ordering effect, the difference in catalytic performance between ordered and disordered alloys, can also influence catalytic performance. Innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay by designing bimetallic catalysts with specific geometric and electronic properties, such as controlling the size and coordination number of metal ensembles, modifying the electronic states of the parent metal, and choosing the appropriate second metal and alloy structure.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应通过改变催化剂表面的几何环境和修改母金属的电子状态，协同影响催化性能。集合效应，一种几何效应，减少了表面的配位数和金属集合的大小，增加了允许反应的选择性。配位效应，一种电子效应，通过修改母金属的电子状态，改变了催化或吸附性质。活性金属的电子状态可以通过形成金属间化合物和选择第二金属来控制。站点添加效应，一种几何效应，允许优先吸附特定分子并空间分离其他分子，促进所需反应。排序效应，有序和无序合金之间的催化性能差异，也会影响催化性能。为了利用这种相互作用，可以开发创新策略，设计具有特定几何和电子性质的双金属催化剂，例如控制金属集合的大小和配位数，修改母金属的电子状态，以及选择适当的第二金属和合金结构。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
