<quotes>

[1] "The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase changes the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface. From a microscopic perspective, the incorporation of catalytically inert or less-active metals (N) into the surface lattice of the parent active metal (M) decreases the coordination number of the surface MM shell and the size of M ensembles. Therefore, adsorption and/or reactions that require multifold sites or large ensembles are less favored on the alloyed surface, increasing the selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an ensemble effect. (279) In addition, a sufficient reduction in the ensemble size is referred to as site isolation. (95, 96) As mentioned occasionally in section 3, ensemble effects have been frequently associated with various selective conversions."
[2] "The electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment."
[3] "Thus, we here show that the electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment."
[4] "For selective (de)hydrogenation, intermetallic phases provide certain functions to protect or release a specific functional group, mainly alkenyl CC bonds, such as (1) anchoring sites, (2) modifying adsorption properties, or (3) molecular recognition ability."
[5] "For oxidation and steam reforming, the positive roles of the intermetallic phases can be distinguished as follows: (i) suppressing undesired side reactions, (ii) improving catalyst stability, (iii) providing O2 adsorption sites, and (iv) acting as precursors of the active components."
[6] "To develop a comprehensive understanding of the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, one should work not only to develop good catalysts but also to elucidate the process of catalysis at an atomic level. Therefore, to avoid complications in mechanistic studies, meeting the following criteria is desirable: (a) high phase purity, (b) use of inert supports or bulk materials, and (c) simple reaction conditions. Satisfying these concerns will reinforce the reliability of mechanistic studies, characterizations, and theoretical approaches."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance by changing the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. The ensemble effect, which is a geometric effect, can increase selectivity for allowed reactions by decreasing the coordination number of the surface and the size of metal ensembles. The electronic effect can improve catalytic properties by changing the electronic state of the active metal, which can be controlled by choosing an appropriate second metal. Innovative strategies can be developed by exploiting these effects to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts. For example, intermetallic phases can provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They can also suppress undesired side reactions, improve catalyst stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors of active components for oxidation and steam reforming. To develop a comprehensive understanding of the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, it is desirable to have high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and have simple reaction conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金的几何和电子效应可以通过改变催化剂表面的几何环境和修改活性金属的电子状态来协同影响催化性能。集合效应是一种几何效应，可以通过减少表面的配位数和金属集合体的大小来增加允许反应的选择性。电子效应可以通过改变活性金属的电子状态来改善催化性能，这可以通过选择适当的第二金属来控制。通过利用这些效应，可以开发出更高效、更选择性和可调的催化系统，以超越传统的单金属催化剂。例如，金属间相可以提供锚定位点，修改吸附性质，并实现选择性(去)氢化中的分子识别。它们还可以抑制不需要的副反应，提高催化剂稳定性，提供O2吸附位点，并作为氧化和蒸汽重整中活性组分的前体。为了发展对金属间催化剂化学的全面理解，希望具有高相纯度，使用惰性支撑或块体材料，并具有简单的反应条件。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
