I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
ACS CatalysisVol 7/Issue 1Article Cite Share Jump to Expand REVIEWDecember 9, 2016 Intermetallic Compounds: Promising Inorganic Materials for Well-Structured and Electronically Modified Reaction Environments for Efficient Catalysis Shinya Furukawa*Takayuki Komatsu* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract An overview of the catalytic properties of intermetallic compounds has been made to provide a comprehensive understanding regarding (1) what intermetallic catalysts can do, (2) their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and (3) their advantages over other inorganic materials. A number of chemical transformations using intermetallic catalysts have been surveyed and classified into three major divisionshydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming and various subsections. The fundamental roles of intermetallic phases obtained from this survey were categorized into four types of effects: (a) electronic, (b) geometric, (c) steric, and (d) ordering effects. The unprecedented steric effects governed by the specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds highlight the unique capabilities of intermetallic materials. On the basis of this overview, we have concluded that intermetallic compounds have the following advantages for fine catalyst design: (i) control of the electronic structure, (ii) a specific and ordered atomic-level structure, and (iii) homogeneity of geometric and electronic structures. Thus, intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials capable of creating a well-designed reaction environment and suitable for developing efficient catalytic systems.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2016 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Catalysts Intermetallics Metals Palladium Platinum Keywords what are keywords Intermetallic Compound Catalyst Material Catalyst Design Geometric Effect Electronic Effect 1 Introduction Catalytic conversion by metallic materials is a key methodology used for various chemical transformations in industrial chemistry, organic synthesis, gas purification, and energy conversion. To improve the performance of metallic catalysts, secondary metallic elements have been frequently added to catalysts as modifiers. The development of such bimetallic catalytic materials remains an intriguing research area in catalytic chemistry. (1-3) In bimetallic systems, two types of metals are present in various states, such as alloys, (4, 5) coreshell structures, (6, 7) and metaloxide composites. (6, 7) Alloys are classified into two categories depending on their structure: solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds. (8) The former, typically substitutional solid-solution alloys, consist of metals of similar atomic size and electronic character with a crystal structure identical to that of the parent metal with random atomic arrangements (Figure 1a). If the atoms of one element is sufficiently small to fit within the lattice void of the counterpart element, interstitial solid-solution alloys can be formed (Figure 1b). The latter involves the opposite situation to Figure 1a, where the component metals have significantly different characters and comprise distinct crystal structures with highly ordered atomic arrangements (Figure 1c). (8) In general, the similarity of two metals can be roughly estimated by their relative positions in the periodic table. As is well-known, solid-solution alloys have been extensively tested as catalyst materials for a long time. (9-13) In contrast, intermetallic compounds have been investigated for their applications to bulk materials with unique physical properties such as superconductivity, (14, 15) shape-memory effects, (16) and hydrogen storage capability. (17, 18) However, until recently, they have rarely been studied for use in catalytic reactions, leaving a so-called blue ocean area for developments in the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts. This situation is clearly represented in Figure 2, which shows the annual increase in the number of publications on alloys and intermetallic catalysts. Note that the actual numbers of the corresponding studies may be much longer than those shown in Figure 2, which only roughly reflects the trend in research. The upward trend for alloy catalysts follows that for metallic catalysts, although the total number is not as high. This upward trend is particularly prominent after 2000, making the chemistry of bimetallic catalysis as a hot topic. In contrast, the number of literature works on intermetallic catalysts is much smaller than that of alloy or metal catalysts. However, the recent increase in publications suggests that this field has also received growing attention. Moreover, the insights obtained from these studies suggest that the potential of intermetallic compounds for catalyst materials is high compared to conventional inorganic catalyst materials. To facilitate development and work toward establishing the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts in the near future, it is necessary to produce and share a comprehensive understanding about (1) what intermetallic catalysts can do, (2) their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and (3) their advantages over other inorganic materials. To this day, a few reviews of intermetallic compounds focused on a specific topic (metalsupport interaction) (19) and reactions (acetylene semihydrogenation (20, 21) and methanol steam reforming) (21, 22) have been reported. We have also published a minireview summarizing our recent studies on intermetallic catalysts. (23) However, no cyclopedic literature covering a broad range of catalytic chemistry of intermetallic compounds has been reported.
Figure 1 Figure 1. Structure of bimetallic alloys: (a) substitutional and (b) interstitial solid-solution alloys and (c) intermetallic compound. The word alloying suggests the formation of alloy phase (a, b, or c) or simply, the mixing of two metal elements in an atomic level.
Figure 2 Figure 2. Annual increases in the number of literature works in which titles include catalyst and metallic, alloy, or intermetallic, as determined by Web of Science searches.
With this context as our motivation, we summarize the current status of intermetallic compounds to provide an overview of their role as catalyst materials in this review. In section 2, we describe the typical methodologies for preparation of intermetallic compound catalysts and outline several points where care should be taken in their preparation. In section 3, we classify a number of catalytic systems that use intermetallic compounds as effective catalysts with respect to the type of reaction and clarify what intermetallic compounds can do. In section 4, the fundamental aspects of intermetallic or alloy phases that govern catalysis are categorized into several parts, including electronic and geometric effects. Other observed features that are unique to intermetallic phases are also introduced. On the basis of the nature of these features, we demonstrate the advantages of intermetallic compounds in catalyst design. Finally, in section 5, we discuss future perspectives on this research field and describe several challenges to be overcome.
For better categorizing in this review, we describe bimetallic combinations in order of the catalytically active metal (M) first and the counterpart metal (N) second. Specific intermetallic and solid-solution alloy phases are designated as MmNn and MxN(1x) (where m, n are integer numbers and x is a decimal number), respectively. When we do not indicate a specific intermetallic or alloy phase, the bimetallic designation combined with a dash (MN) is used. This designation indicates a composite of various phases, a generic term for a bimetallic system, and/or a simple mixture of two metals. Note that some descriptions in this manuscript differ from the original ones in the literature. 2 Catalyst Preparation In general, an intermetallic catalyst should contain a catalytically active element, such as one of the late transition metals (Au, Pt, Pd, Ni, Rh, Co, Ru, and Fe). Therefore, the counterpart metal should be an early transition metal or a typical metallic element, which is well-separated from the active metals in the periodic table (Figure 3). The combination of a later transition metal and a typical metal or a half metal (Al, Si, Zn, Ga, Ge, In, Sn, Sb, Te, Tl, Pb, or Bi) is commonly employed, whereas combinations containing an early transition metal (Sc, Ti, V, Y, Zr, Nb, La, Hf, or Ta) have been less frequently reported. For the former combinations, most intermetallic compounds can be easily prepared as highly dispersed nanoparticles on a certain catalyst support using conventional impregnation methods with hydrogen reduction. (23) A stoichiometric supply and homogeneous dispersion of the two metal precursors are important in order to obtain a high phase-purity of the desired intermetallic phase. Ideally, the intermetallic catalyst should be single-phase so that the catalytic performance of the phase in question can be well understood. To avoid inhomogeneous distribution of metal precursors during drying, it is preferable to use the least amount of solvent possible, as is typically employed for pore-filling impregnation. The two metal precursors are loaded on the catalyst support simultaneously or successively (Figure 4). For the former fashion, which is called coimpregnation (Figure 4a), the precursors simultaneously undergo the gas-phase reduction procedure typically at high temperatures. However, in most cases, the reduction of two metal precursors does not occur simultaneously because of the significant deviation in their reduction potentials. (24) The reduction of noble metal precursor occurs (typically below 200 C) before the furnace temperature is elevated sufficiently to reduce the base metal precursor. This trend can be observed clearly in the temperature programed reduction (TPR) profiles of some intermetallic catalysts. (25) For the successive impregnation fashion (Figure 4b), the second metal precursor is loaded on the prereduced monometallic catalyst. The reduction of the second metal occurs at the surface or neighboring sites of the parent active metal nanoparticles by surface or spillover hydrogen, followed by diffusing into the bulk to form the intermetallic phase. The size of the resulting intermetallic nanoparticles depends roughly on that of the parent metal. Therefore, this procedure is suitable for the preparation of size-controlled intermetallic nanoparticles. Instead of the supported monometallic particles, Raney-type porous bulk metals can also be used as the parent materials for the successive impregnation procedure. (26) Figure 3 Figure 3. Active and second metal components of catalytically active intermetallic compounds represented in the periodic table. Shaded parts indicate elements that are rarely used.
Figure 4 Figure 4. Schematic illustration of various preparation method of intermetallic compounds. (a) Co-impregnation, (b) successive impregnation, (c) chemical vapor deposition, (d) hydride reduction, (e) polyol processsis, and (f) metallurgical alloying.
Appropriate choice of the catalyst support is also a significant factor to prepare a supported intermetallic compound with high phase purity. Catalyst supports that tend to strongly capture the metals or metal precursors, such as γ-Al2O3, are less suitable for synthesizing single-phase intermetallic nanoparticles because they often result in less-homogeneous dispersions of the metal precursors and/or low surface mobility of the metals during the alloying process. (24) Using an inert support such as SiO2 or carbon is suitable not only for obtaining high phase-purity but also for clarifying the role of the intermetallic phase in enhanced catalysis due to the absence of contributions from the support itself. Of course, the use of other supports such as TiO2 or MgO is also valid when one expects concerted catalysis involving both the metallic phase and the support. (27, 28) Al2O3-supported intermetallic compounds can successfully be prepared by liquid-phase reduction (Figure 4d) using borohydride as a strong reducing agent. (24) It has been suggested that rapid coreduction of the two metal cations is effective for synthesizing an intermetallic phase on Al2O3. (24) Liquid-phase reduction can also be applied for the colloidal synthesis of intermetallic nanoparticles without any catalyst support. (29) Some capping agents are used to avoid aggregation. As a reducing agent, NaBH4, (30) LiBH4, (24, 27) LiBHEt3, (31-33) or sodium naphthalenide (34) has often been used.
As well as the aforementioned methods, chemical vapor deposition (CVD, Figure 4c) (35-39) and polyol process (Figure 4e) have also been employed for the preparation of intermetallic nanoparticles. For the CVD method, the second metal precursor is fed as a vapor directly to the surface of the parent metal particles, followed by reductive deposition and alloying. (35) At an appropriate temperature, the reductive deposition occurs preferentially on the active metal surface but not on the inert support, allowing selective deposition. The precursors having sufficiently high vapor pressures, such as silane (39) and tetraalkyl compounds of group 14 elements, (38) are typically employed for CVD. Note that because the loading amount depends strongly on the temperature and time of the CVD procedure, it is necessary to find an appropriate condition to control exactly the loading amount of the second metal. (35) This method often enables high phase purities and minimal aggregation or sintering of the parent metal particles under an appropriate condition. Polyol process is a unique and useful method for synthesizing intermetallic nanoparticles by successive alloying of the parent metal particles in liquid phase. Multivalent alcohols such as ethylene glycol, propanediol, and glycerol (so-called polyols) act as a (a) high-boiling solvent (bp 200350 C), (b) capping agent, and (c) reductant (hydrogen donor). (40) Both colloidal and supported nanoparticles can be used as the parent materials (Figure 4e). This method enables high phase-purity of the resulting intermetallic nanoparticles, where the size, shape, and dispersity of the parent particles are retained. Schaak et al. reported that a variety of intermetallic nanopartilces were prepared successfully using this method: for example, AuCu, (41) PtM (M = Sn, Sb, Fe, Bi, Pb, Cu), (42, 43) and MSn (M = Fe, Ni, Co, Pd). (42) For bimetallic combinations containing early transition metals, the preparation of supported intermetallic compounds is a challenging task. This is because the precursors of these metals are difficult to reduce to the metallic states by a typical hydrogen reduction treatment at high temperatures (400800 C) due to the very low reduction potentials (typically < 1.5 V vs normal hydrogen electrode (NHE)). (44), For example, a reduction temperature of 900 or 1000 C with flowing hydrogen is required to convert PtTi4+ or PtNb5+ composite to Pt3Ti (45) or Pt3Nb (46) phase, respectively. A strong reducing agent such as LiHBEt3 (33, 47) or sodium napthalenide (34) in the liquid phase (Figure 4d) was reported to be effective for preparing intermetallic Pt3M (M = Ti, Zr, and Nb). Metal precursors with highly negative reduction potentials such as Sc3+ or lanthanide cations (typically < 2.0 V vs NHE) (44) are almost impossible to be reduced using chemical agents. Intermetallic compounds containing such metals can be prepared as bulk materials by conventional metallurgical alloying (Figure 4f). However, considering the very low reduction potentials of these metals, the resulting intermetallic phase is likely to be highly sensitive to air and moisture. For instance, the surface of Pd-based intermetallic compounds containing Ti or Nb undergoes oxidative decomposition into monometallic Pd and the oxide phases of the counterpart metal even in purified Ar atmosphere containing only a trace amount of O2 (<1 ppb). (48) Therefore, the intrinsic catalytic properties of intermetallic compound surfaces containing highly oxidizable metals is difficult to evaluate under typical reaction conditions and should be measured under very strict conditions such as an ultrahigh vacuum condition. In the following section, we show some examples of intermetallic catalysts containing early transition metals. In these cases, one should consider the possibility that the intermetallic phase acts as the precursor of the true active phase. 3 Survey of Intermetallic Catalysts In this section, a number of chemical transformations are first classified into three major divisions, namely, hydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming. The individual reactions are the focus of different subsections. Here, reports dealing with bimetallic catalysts that do not give sufficient phase characterization are not covered, except for important examples, so that the contribution of the specific phase is clarified. Solid-solution alloy catalysts that are particularly important or relevant to the focused reaction were also included.
3.1 Hydrogenation/Dehydrogenation
Intermetallic compounds typically comprise base metal elements, which are sensitive to air, and therefore are suitable for chemical reactions performed under an inert or reductive atmosphere rather than an oxidative atmosphere. Hydrogenation of multiple bonds such as CC, CC, CO, and NO or dehydrogenation of saturated hydrocarbons and alcoholic moieties is one of the most widely studied reaction categories that involve intermetallic compounds. In this section, several hydrogen-mediated reactions are categorized into five subsections, including (1) chemoselective hydrogenation, (2) alkene hydrogenation and isomerization, (3) alkane dehydrogenation, (4) alcohol-based N-alkylation of amines, and (5) hydrogenation of carbon oxides.
3.1.1 Chemoselective Hydrogenation
Hydrogenation of organic molecules having two reducible functional groups can yield several different products because hydrogenation may occur at any functional groups. If one aims to exclusively obtain a certain hydrogenated product, the targeted functional group should be selectively hydrogenated with the other functional group remaining. Occasionally, however, the other functional group may be kinetically and thermodynamically more easily hydrogenated than the target functional group. In such a case, a drastic modification of the catalytic property is required in order to suppress the undesired hydrogenation of the other group.
3.1.1.1 α,β-Unsaturated Aldehyde to Allylic Alcohol
Allylic alcohols such as crotyl alcohol, prenol, geraniol, cinnamyl alcohol, and furfuryl alcohol are valuable intermediates for the production of perfumes, flavoring, pharmaceuticals, and resins. (49-51) These alcohols can be produced by preferred hydrogenation of the CO group of the corresponding α,β-unsaturated aldehyde (i.e., crotonaldehyde, prenal, citral, cinnamaldehyde, and furfral, respectively). Selective catalytic hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes to allylic alcohols is a key step in the industrial production of fine chemicals and is one of the most widely studied chemoselective hydrogenations in fundamental research on catalysis. (48) Conventional monometallic catalysts such as Pt (52) Ni, (39) or Ru (53, 54) typically catalyze undesired hydrogenation of the CC bond to form a saturated aldehyde or alcohol.
In this research field, Sn-modified bimetallic systems represented by PtSn have been reported to be effective (typically 7090% selectivities for allylic alcohols) since the 1980s. (55-57) At the early stage (prior to 2000), however, most studies proposed that cationic Sn species adjacent to Pt sites act as anchoring sites of the CO moiety for selective hydrogenation and made little mention of the involvement of alloy or intermetallic species. (55-58) The adsorption properties of PtSn alloys (including surface alloys and bulk intermetallic Pt3Sn) have been extensively studied by a combination of density functional theory (DFT) calculations and surface science techniques such as high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS), low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), and temperature programed desorption (TPD) in the 2000s. (59-62) These studies revealed that alloying of Pt with Sn significantly weakened the adsorption of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes in side-on conformations, resulting in CC hydrogenation, whereas it enhanced that in top coordination on Sn sites, enabling CO hydrogenation. Very recently, Hou et al. reported the catalytic properties of a supported Pt3Sn intermetallic phase. (63) They prepared Pt3Sn intermetallic nanoparticles on SnO2 islands dispersed on reduced graphene oxide (rGO). This catalyst exhibits good to excellent (7598%) yields for 12 different unsaturated alcohols, including crotyl, cinnamyl, and furfuryl alcohols under relatively mild conditions (2 MPa H2, 70 C, Scheme 1). (63) Scheme 1 Scheme 1. Selective Hydrogenation of Various Unsaturated Aldehydes over Pt3Sn/SnO2/rGO Ni-based intermetallic catalysts such as Ni3Sn2/TiO2 (64) and NiIn/MgO (65) were also reported to be effective for chemoselective hydrogenation of various unsaturated aldehydes. These catalysts show good catalytic performances comparable to that of Pt3Sn/SnO2/rGO, although more severe reaction conditions are required (3 MPa H2, 110140 C). This might be due to the intrinsic hydrogenation ability of Pt, which is superior to that of Ni. X-ray adsorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis and DFT calculations for the NiIn system revealed that charge transfer from In to Ni occurs upon alloying, which produces electron-rich Ni and electron-deficient In sites. (65) The authors propose that such polarized sites prefer CO adsorption rather than CC adsorption, allowing preferential hydrogenation of the CO moiety. They also point out that isolation of Ni atoms by In (the so-called ensemble effect) decreases CC adsorption. Intermetallic compounds with different Ni/In ratio (Ni2In, Ni3In, NiIn, and Ni2In3) were also tested in this system. As the Ni/In ratio decreased, the selectivity for CO hydrogenation increased, whereas the catalytic activity decreased. This trend is consistent with the rationale they proposed. These interpretations are essentially similar to those found for the aforementioned PtSn system.
Other than Sn or In-containing intermetallic compounds, RuTi/SiO2 (37) and unsupported PtZn (66) were also tested for crotonaldehyde hydrogenation, in which the selectivity to crotyl alcohol was ca. 40%. Interestingly, cofeeding ppm levels of bromoethane for the PtZn system significantly increases crotyl alcohol selectivity up to 88%. This enhancement is rationalized by preferential adsorption of the CO moiety on positively charged Zn species that are formed in these conditions. (62) Ternary intermetallic compounds such as Co6Ge6Mg and Ni4Sn2Ca were tested for hydrogenation of citral. Co6Ge6Mg showed a higher ratio of saturated alcohol (S:(geraniol + nerol)/(citronellal + citronellol) = 4.6) than RuSn/SiO2 catalyst (S = 4.1). (67) Similar results were observed between Ni4Sn2Ca (S = 1.2) or Ni4Sn2(Ca0.5Sr0.5) (S = 1.5) and Ni3Sn (S = 1.1). (68) The polar properties of these ternary materials are suggested for the origin of chemoselectivity.
Thus, in general, the intermetallic catalysts effective for selective hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehyde typically possess second metal sites that preferentially adsorb and activate carbonyl moieties.
3.1.1.2 Nitroarene to Aminoarene
Functionalized anilines are important intermediate chemicals for dyes, polymers, pharmaceuticals, and herbicides. (69) These molecules are synthesized by hydrogenation of the corresponding nitroarenes. Selective catalytic hydrogenation of nitroarenes to aminoarenes using gaseous hydrogen and a reusable heterogeneous catalyst is a highly atom-efficient and environmentally friendly process. The number of literatures using heterogeneous catalysts has been increasing in this decade, (70-81) indicating this field as a hot topic among researchers in heterogeneous catalysis. Functional groups substituted for aromatic rings are typically alkenyl, carbonyl, cyano, and halo groups. Among these, protecting alkenyl groups during nitro-hydrogenation (for example, nitrostyrene to aminostyrene) is the most challenging, because alkenyl groups are much more easily hydrogenated than other functional groups when a transition-metal catalyst and gaseous hydrogen are used. (82) Recently developed heterogeneous catalysts such as those based on Au (73, 83) and Ag (75, 76) typically need high H2 pressures (>0.6 MPa) and high reaction temperatures (>110 C) to work well. In contrast, Rh-based intermetallic compounds such as RhIn/SiO2 (81) and Rh0.75Ni0.25 nanoparticles capped by octadecylamine (84) were reported to be active in very mild conditions. RhIn/SiO2 acts as a highly active and selective catalyst for hydrogenation of various nitroarenes including nitrostyrene under 1 atm H2 at 75 and 25 C. As shown in Scheme 2 (left part), a variety of nitro arenes with vinyl, cyano, styryl, acetoxy, acetyl, formyl, chloro, bromo, and iodo groups were converted into the corresponding aminoarenes with high yields. (81) Note that monometallic Rh/SiO2 preferentially catalyzes undesired CC hydrogenation and gave a negligible amount of the desired aminoarene. Chemoselective conversion can be achieved using a specific surface structure of RhIn, which is explained in detail in section 4.3. Although Rh0.75Ni0.25 displays similar catalytic performance for various functionalized nitroarenes, no substrate containing an alkenyl group was tested (Scheme 2, right part). For the RhNi system, alloys with Ni contents higher than 0.33 show low selectivities (<62%). A similar result was also reported in the literature for RhIn/SiO2. In addition, several Pt-based catalysts that operate under relatively mild conditions have also been developed in recent years. (78, 83, 85) Many researchers consider isolation of Pt to be promising for selective nitro-hydrogenation. (78, 85) Indeed, to develop isolated Pt environments, some strategies such as single-atom dispersion (78) and ligand capping (85) have been adopted and demonstrated to be suitable. On the other hand, electronically modified Pt has been used for selective hydrogenation by intermetallic catalysts. Iihama et al. reported that PtZn/SiO2 catalyzed selective hydrogenation of various halonitrobenzenes to haloanilines (C6H4XNO2; X = Cl, Br, and I, including all regio isomers) under 1 atm H2 at 40 C. (86) They proposed that electron-enrichment of Pt by Zn not only suppresses CX scission but also enhances nitro-hydrogenation.Scheme 2 Scheme 2. Hydrogenation of Various Nitroarenes to Aminoarenes Using RhIn/SiO2 and Rh0.75Ni0.25 Catalysts Although the use of gaseous hydrogen is highly atom-efficient and suitable for industrial applications, using other hydrogen sources such as methanol may be more convenient for laboratory-scale organic synthesis. Transition-metal-catalyzed hydrogenation using organic hydrogen donors is termed catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH). (87, 88) Although this type of reaction was initially studied decades ago, there are few literature reports focused on intermetallic materials as catalysts. Pd13Pb9/SiO2 and RhPb2/SiO2 are efficient catalysts for CTH of nitrostyrene to aminostyrene using methanol as a hydrogen source and solvent. (79) In particular, RhPb2/SiO2 can hydrogenate nitrostyrene and its derivatives (in total, 6 substrates) to the corresponding amino compounds under 1 atm Ar at 70 C in 1 or 1.5 h. (79)
3.1.1.3 Alkyne to Alkene
Semihydrogenation of alkyne to alkene is also one of the most widely studied reaction categories in the area of fundamental and applied chemistry. Acetylene semihydrogenation is an important industrial process used to purify crude ethylene containing a small amount of acetylene, which terminally deactivates ethylene polymerization catalysts. (89) Conversion of aliphatic and functionalized alkynes to the corresponding alkenes is also frequently employed in organic syntheses. (90) Protecting the produced CC bond, which is easily hydrogenated to a saturated CC bond in hydrogenation conditions, is the key concern for this reaction. In general, conversion of alkyne proceeds successively to alkene and alkane. However, direct conversion to ethane via surface ethylidene species has also been proposed for acetylene hydrogenation. (91) Pd- and Ni-based catalysts are known to be effective for selective alkyne semihydrogenation. For example, a PdAg alloy has been utilized as an acetylene semihydrogenation catalyst for ethylene purification in industrial process. (92, 93) A number of intermetallic compounds have also been reported to be effective catalysts: e.g., AuPd/TiO2, (94) PdmGa (bulk and Al2O3- or C-supported, m = 1 or 2), (31, 32, 95-97) PdZn/ZnO, (98) Ni3Sn, (99) Ni3Ge/MCM-41, (100) NiZn/MgAl2O4, (101) and Ni3Ga/MgAl2O4. (102) In addition, other 3d transition-metal-based intermetallic compounds such as CoM (M = Al, Co, and Ge) (103) and Fe4Al13 (104) catalyze acetylene hydrogenation and display high selectivity to ethylene. The enhanced selectivity to ethylene has often been explained by the weakened adsorption of ethylene. (105, 106) The adsorption energy of alkene on Pd typically becomes less negative in the presence of the second metal atoms adjacent to Pd atoms, which accelerates alkene desorption, thereby inhibiting overhydrogenation. (106) However, alkyne adsorption is also weakened, which lowers the hydrogenation rate of alkyne. Therefore, alkene yields generally exhibit a volcano-type relationship to the adsorption properties of the surface.
Table 1 summarizes the catalytic performance of reported intermetallic and alloy catalysts for acetylene semihydrogenation. Detailed information such as the list of feed gas space velocities can be found in the literature. In most cases, small amounts of C4 byproducts such as butenes are yielded by dimerization of C2 molecules. Note that ethylene selectivity is sometimes reported as the percentage of ethylene in C2 molecules (not including C4 molecules), which is shown in parentheses in Table 1. In general, Ni-based catalysts require higher reaction temperatures than Pd-based catalysts to obtain high conversion rates. Among these catalysts, PdZn/ZnO exhibits a remarkably high catalytic activity and selectivity even at a reaction temperature of 80 C (Table 1, entry 8), which is much lower than that for other Pd-based catalysts, typically 200 C. The outstanding high catalytic activity is explained by a high H2 dissociation ability and the capacity for moderate di-σ coordination of acetylene to Pd, unlike in the case of other Pd-based intermetallic compounds such as PdGa (107) or PdAl. (108) The barrier for H2 dissociation on PdZn(100) of 39 kJ mol1 is lower than that on PdGa(210) (49 kJ mol1 at minimum) (109) and close to that on Pd(111) (20 kJ mol1). (110) Armbrster and the corroborators reported that PdGa and Pd2Ga could be prepared as supported or unsupported nanoparticles that display good ethylene selectivities (5882%) at sufficiently high acetylene conversions (6695%) (Table 1, entries 37). It is worth mentioning that a Ni0.25Zn0.75 catalyst (Table 1, entry 11) was discovered through theoretical predictions by Nrskov et al. They employed the heat of adsorption of methyl as a single descriptor representing catalytic activity and selectivity and surveyed the heat of adsorption for a number of bimetallic combinations. They discovered that intermetallic NiZn displayed a similar heat of adsorption of methyl to that of PdAg and demonstrated that high selectivity was indeed obtained when supported NiZn catalysts were used. It should also be noted that Fe4Al13 shows a very high catalytic activity that is comparable to Pd-based catalysts despite its low specific surface area (20 m2g1), and it has sufficient selectivity (Table 1, entry 13) compared to that of an industrial benchmark. The use of ubiquitous metal elements and their good catalytic performances makes them a fascinating alternative to noble metal catalysts.
Table 1. Catalytic Performances of the Reported Intermetallic and Alloy Catalysts for Acetylene Semihydrogenation entry catalyst phase/support temp (C) feeding ratio (C2H2:H2:C2H4) GHSV (mL gcat1 h1) conv (%) sel. (%)a ref 1 Pd0.2Ag0.8 200 1:10:100 9000 85 49 32 2 PdAu/TiO2 200 1:3:96 63000 60 (88) 94 3 PdGa 200 1:10:100 4500 66 77 32 4 PdGa/Al2O3 200 1:10:100 24000 84 82 32 5 Pd2Ga 200 1:10:100 180000 95 75 32 6 Pd2Ga/Al2O3 200 1:10:100 18000 88 66 32 7 Pd2Ga/C 200 1:10:100 7500000 90 58 97 8 PdZn/ZnO 80 1:10:20 180000 100 (96) 98 9 Ni3Sn 250 1:5:0 closed 100 68(>99) 99 10 Ni3Ge/MCM-41 250 1:2:0   94 89(98) 100 11 Ni0.25Zn0.75/MgAl2O4   1:10:20   97 (98) 101 12 Ni3Ga/MgAl2O4 200 1:20:100 40000 90 80 102 13 Fe4Al13 200 1:10:100 90000 81 84(90) 104 aEthylene selectivity in all products. Values in parentheses indicate ethylene selectivity in C2 molecules.
Liquid-phase hydrogenation of aliphatic alkynes was studied using Pd2Ga, (111) and PdZn/ZnO, (112) which showed high alkene selectivities. For functionalized alkynes, selective hydrogenation to the corresponding alkenes was achieved using Pd3Pb/SiO2 and Pd3Bi/SiO2. (106) Intermetallic Pd3Pb shows higher alkene selectivity than other Pd-based bimetallic catalysts such as Pd0.5Ag0.5, Pd2Ga, PdZn, and the commercial Lindlar catalyst (PdPb/CaCO3). Note that the states of Pb atoms in intermetallic Pd3Pb and PdPb/CaCO3 differ significantly: Pb atoms comprise the lattice of Pd3Pb but are deposited as oxides on the surface of monometallic Pd, respectively. (113) A DFT study on these Pb-containing materials suggested that the Pd3Pb(111) surface had much lower heat of adsorption of alkyne and alkene than the Pb-deposited Pd(111) surface. (106)
3.1.1.4 Diene to Monoene
Selective hydrogenation of diene to monoene requires inhibition of overhydrogenation of the product alkene to alkane. Similarly for alkyne semihydrogenation, diminishing the alkene adsorption by alloying has been often employed. Liquid-phase hydrogenation of 1,5-hexadiene was performed using a PdAg alloy supported on alumina. (114, 115) Alkene selectivity was significantly improved by alloying with a small amount of Ag (Pd0.8Ag0.2), resulting in a 77% yield of hexenes at 100% conversion. However, inner alkenes such as 2-hexenes were also formed by 1-hexene isomerization. Gas-phase hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene was studied using PtxGe/SiO2 (x = 1, 2, and 3). (116) Pt3Ge exhibited excellent selectivity (95%) to butenes at 100% conversion. Although Pt2Ge and PtGe showed good selectivities, the reaction rate significantly decreased as the Ge content increased. In addition, some Pt-based alloys (Pt0.8M0.2, M = Ni, Co, or Fe) were tested for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation, and good selectivity was obtained (Pt0.8Fe0.2, 89% selectivity at 50% conversion). (117)
3.1.2 Alkene Hydrogenation and Isomerization
As mentioned in the two preceding sections, the alkene hydrogenation ability of a monometallic catalyst is significantly diminished by the formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase. However, an exceptional case of hydrogenation activity enhanced by the formation of an intermetallic phase has also been reported. Intermetallic Pt3Ti was reported to give a much higher reaction rate for hydrogenation of ethylene to ethane. (118) Therefore, it may be generally concluded that hydrogenation ability is often decreased when the counterpart metal is a late transition or a typical metal. The unexpected enhancement in hydrogenation ability observed for Pt3Ti cannot be explained in terms of adsorption energy because adsorptivity is also weakened on Pt3Ti. (119) Presumably, a specific electronic state or configuration of alkenes that is energetically favorable for hydrogen attack might be possible on Pt3Ti.
Unique hydrogenation abilities of intermetallic compounds capable of hydrogen storage have also been reported. Endo et al. reported that Ni2Ce adsorbs hydrogen within its bulk lattice to form an amorphous Ni2CeHx phase. (120) This amorphous intermetallic hydride almost completely catalyzes ethylene hydrogenation at low temperatures (conversion: >99%, above 40 C), while the parent Ni2Ce was almost inactive (0% at 40 C). The drastic enhancement in hydrogenation ability was explained by a direct involvement of the adsorbed hydrogen at the surface in ethylene hydrogenation.
During hydrogenation of inner alkenes, isomerization to another stereoisomer also proceeds as a side reaction. This reaction takes places by CC rotation of the alkyl intermediate, followed by β-hydrogen elimination as a reverse reaction of the initial hydrogen addition to alkene. Scheme 3 outlines the hydrogenation and isomerization of alkene by hydrogen, which is known as the HoriuchiPlanyi mechanism. (121) The thermodynamically stable (E)-isomer is typically generated as an isomerization product. However, for monometallic and usual bimetallic catalysts, overhydrogenation to alkane inevitably occurs because hydrogen atoms can attack the alkenyl carbon from various directions. Therefore, it is difficult to selectively catalyze alkene isomerization in the presence of hydrogen. Recently, Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds belonging to the orthorhombic Pnma space group, such as RhSb, were reported to selectively catalyze (Z) to (E) isomerization of various inner alkenes. (122, 123) A unique surface stereochemistry governed by a specific bimetallic structure allows one-atom hydrogenation for isomerization and inhibits two-atom hydrogenation to alkane, which is explained in detail in section 4.3. Contrary to the commonly used alkene isomerization methodologies using acid or photoexcitation, the use of hydrogen is much more functional-group-tolerant. Therefore, an RhSb catalyst can be applied to conversion of functionalized alkenes and alkynes as described in the following paragraph.
Scheme 3 Scheme 3. Reaction Mechanism of Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization and Hydrogenation Known as HoriuchiPolanyi Mechanism Catalytic hydrogenation of inner alkynes generates (Z)-alkenes due to syn addition of hydrogen to the alkenyl moiety. Obtaining (E)-alkenes from alkyne generally requires Birch-type reduction, which is performed in liquid NH3. (124) However, this reaction is stoichiometric, and the reaction conditions seem to be poorly functional-group-tolerant. (125) Therefore, obtaining functionalized (E)-alkenes by catalytic hydrogenation of the corresponding alkynes is highly challenging. This can be accomplished by a combination of an alkyne semihydrogenation catalyst (Pd3Pb/SiO2) and the alkene isomerization catalyst (RhSb/SiO2). (106) Note that both catalysts work in the presence of gaseous hydrogen, enabling a one-pot procedure to be used for the (E)-alkene synthesis. Various functionalized inner alkynes containing carbonyl or hydroxyl moieties were converted stepwise into the corresponding (E)-alkenes with high yields using a 1:1 mixture of these catalysts under 1 atm H2 at room temperature (Scheme 4). (106) Scheme 4 Scheme 4. Hydrogenation of Various Functionalized Alkynes to the Corresponding (E)-Alkenes Using Pd3Pb/SiO2 and RhSb/SiO2 Catalystsa Scheme aConversion of alkyne, selectivity for (E)- and (Z)-alkenes, and E:Z ratio are shown.
3.1.3 Alkane Dehydrogenation
Dehydrogenation of saturated hydrocarbons such as propane, ethane, and isobutene is one of the most important chemical processes for the production of light alkenes. Particularly, in these days, propane dehydrogenation to propylene is increasingly in demand due to an insufficient supply of propylene from steam crackers. (126) In this field, PtSn bimetallic catalysts have been widely studied and used as industrial catalysts. (127-132) The addition of Sn to Pt often increases catalytic activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation toward hydrogenolysis or oligomerization. Moreover, this enhances coke resistance and catalyst stability. Recent experimental (133, 134) and theoretical (135, 136) studies revealed that the intermetallic Pt3Sn phase shows both high catalytic activity and selectivity among various PtSn phases such as PtSn alloys (Sn content <10%), Pt3Sn, PtSn, and PtSn2. As shown in Figure 5, the most stable (111) plane of the Pt3Sn phase exhibits an Sn arrangement with a (2 × 2) structure. The incorporated Sn atoms effectively dilute large Pt ensembles, which cause undesired side reactions such as hydrogenolysis, coke formation, and oligomerization. (135) However, 3-fold Pt sites remain on Pt3Sn(111) and act as the minimum active site for CH activation, affording sufficient catalytic activity. In contrast, Sn-rich intermetallic phases such as PtSn, PtSn2, and PtSn4 are almost inactive for alkane dehydrogenation (127-129) probably because the surface Pt atoms are completely isolated by surrounding Sn atoms, resulting in disappearance of PtPt sites.Figure 5 Figure 5. (a) Crystal structure of Pt3Sn with a single unit cell and (b) atomic arrangement of Pt3Sn(111) surface with a (2 × 2)-Sn structure.Another explanation for the geometric role of Sn was also proposed. Olsbye et al. have suggested that low-coordination Pt sites, namely, corners or edges, are active for hydrogenolysis while Sn atoms preferentially block these Pt sites. (137) This explanation was supported theoretically by Yang et al. (138) They showed that stepped sites on Pt(211) surface prefers overdehydrogenation of propylene to its desorption, whereas on the flat (111) surface, desorption is much more favored to overdehydrogenation. They also pointed that (1) the stepped sites are very active and unselective, but undergo rapid deactivation due to the coke formation and that (2) reactions occur on the flat surface after reaching the steady state. (138) As well as the geometric effects of Sn, the contribution of electronic effects has also been reported. An X-ray photoelectron spectrum (XPS) (134) and XAFS (134, 139) study showed that the electron density of Pt increases by alloying with Sn. Downward shift of the d band center was also reported for a series of PtSn surfaces. (135) This modified electronic state changes the adsorption properties of Pt. Indeed, many experimental (127) and computational approaches (135, 136) have revealed that adding Sn to Pt reduces the heat of propylene adsorption, which promotes desorption of propylene and suppresses successive side reactions. Figure 6 shows the difference in energy barriers between propylene desorption and overdehydrogenation to propenyl species. (135) Pt(111) surface prefers overdehydrogenation, while this trend is inverted for PtSn surfaces. Propylene desorption becomes much more favorable, as the Sn content at the surface and subsurface region increased. This energy difference in propylene desorption and overdehydrogenation to propenyl species has often been used as a descriptor of selectivity to propylene. Note that this electronic effect on the adsorption property is very similar to that observed in alkyne semihydrogenation. Thus, it is likely that selective alkane dehydrogenation relies on both the geometric and electronic effects generated by the addition of Sn.Figure 6 Figure 6. Energy barrier difference (Ediff) between propylene dehydrogenation and propylene desorption over the Pt(111) and various PtSn surfaces. Blue and red bars indicate pathways to 1- and 2-propenyls, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 135. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
3.1.4 Alcohol-Based N-Alkylation of Amines
N-Alkylation of amines with alcohol is an important chemical transformation for the synthesis of N-alkylamines, which are key building blocks that comprise a variety of functional organic molecules. (140) This reaction takes places by alcohol dehydrogenation, followed by reductive amination, as shown in Scheme 5a. Here, dehydrogenation of alcohol and hydrogenation of intermediate imine are catalyzed by transition-metal catalysts through a process known as a hydrogen-borrowing mechanism. (141) Here, alcohol acts as not only an alkylating agent but also a hydrogen source. At present, various heterogeneous catalysts containing transition metals such as Au, (142) Ag, (143) Cu, (144) Pt, (145) Pd, (146) Ni, (147) and Ru (148) have been reported to be effective for this reaction. These catalytic systems are highly atom-efficient, environmentally benign, and easy to handle under atmospheric pressure. However, in most cases, the scope of amine substrates is limited to less reactive amines such as aniline derivatives and aliphatic amines. This is because amines are essentially more reactive than alcohol, causing undesired side reactions such as amine dimerization (Scheme 5b) or CN cleavage to occur that decrease the yield of N-alkylation products. N-alkylation of reactive amines such as benzylamine can be achieved using a PdZn/Al2O3 catalyst with high yields. (149) The formation of a PdZn intermetallic phase drastically changes the adsorption affinity of Pd for alcohol and amine. On monometallic Pd, the adsorption of amine and the subsequent β-hydrogen activation are kinetically and thermodynamically preferred over those of alcohols. Conversely, this trend is inverted on PdZn, allowing selective adsorption and activation of alcohols for N-alkylation. A DFT calculation for Pd(111) and PdZn(111) (described by a CuAu-type unit cell) surfaces revealed that the highly oxophilic character of Zn atoms in contrast to the azophilic character of Pd atoms contributed to the drastic change in adsorption affinity. (149) Various amines including aliphatic amines, benzylamine, and its derivatives can be alkylated with high yields in a few hours using a PdZn/Al2O3 catalyst (Scheme 6). This catalytic system is also suitable for heteroaromatic alcohols such as furfuryl alcohol and N-alkylation of secondary amines to tertiary amines. Note that one of the most challenging tasks, the combination of less reactive octylacohol and highly reactive benzylamine, was also tested, and produced N-octylbenzylamine with a moderate yield. Using an Al2O3 support is also important for this system because the acidity of Al2O3 can accelerate condensation of the aldehyde and the amine to form an intermediate imine, as is often suggested in relevant works. (141) Scheme 5 Scheme 5. Reaction Pathways of (a) Alcohol-Based N-Alkylation and (b) Dimerization of Amine Mediated by Hydrogen-Borrowing Mechanism Scheme 6 Scheme 6. N-Alkylation of Various Amines Using PdZn/Al2O3 High catalytic performance for N-alkylation has also been reported using a Pt-based bimetallic catalyst. Wei et al. reported that PtSn/Al2O3 (Pt:Sn = 1:3) selectively catalyzed N-alkylation of various amines. (145) They also demonstrated a wide scope of substrates with 47 aniline derivatives, 3 aliphatic amines, and 5 benzylamine derivatives (typically 8099% yields). Because this study includes no original characterization of the catalyst except for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations, it is unclear which intermetallic or alloy species contribute to the selective catalysis. However, preferential activation of alcohol over amines is certainly governed by this bimetallic catalyst.
In relation to N-alkylation of amine, amination of alcohol with ammonia (N-alkylation of ammonia) has also been studied, particularly by researchers in homogeneous catalysis. (150-152) However, very few heterogeneous catalysts are effective for alcohol amination. This reaction is much more challenging than N-alkylation of amine because the intermediate imine is a primary imine, which is very unstable and easily undergoes deaminative dimerization. (153) Therefore, the hydrogenation of methanimine to the primary amine product needs to be sufficiently promoted. Recently, Nakagawa et al. reported amination of 1,2-propanediol with aqueous ammonia using a RhIn/C catalyst. (154, 155) The optimized catalyst (Rh:In = 1:1) showed a 28-fold higher turnover frequency (TOF) than Rh/C. The products were dominated by a 1:1 mixture of 1-amino-2propanol and 2-amino-1-propanol. Detailed characterization revealed that the tetragonal RhIn phase (distorted CsCl structure) was the main active species. This catalytic system operates under a high H2 pressure (5 MPa), probably to promote the hydrogenation of imine to amine.
3.1.5 Hydrogenation of Carbon Oxides
Hydrogenation of carbon oxides (CO or CO2) to methane, methanol, or oligomerized hydrocarbons is an important methodology used to synthesize fuels. Methanation of CO or CO2 was widely studied for use in natural gas production from coal or biomass. (156) These days, CO methanation is increasingly in focus as a choice for purification of crude hydrogen for polymer electrolyte fuel cell (PEFC), (157) in which CO terminally deactivates Pt electrodes. In the early stages, 3d late transition-metal-based intermetallic compounds (MxNy; M = Cu, (158, 159) Ni, (159-161) Co, (160, 161) or Fe; (162) N = Th, (158, 159) U, (159) Si, (160, 161) or Ti (162)), some of which are known as hydrogen storage materials, were utilized for CO methanation and related reactions. However, in these cases, the actual active phases were monometallic M dispersed on N oxides, which were formed by degradation of the parent intermetallic phases during the reaction or intentional oxidizing pretreatments. On the other hand, a recent study using silica-supported bimetallic NiSi catalysts by Liang et al. showed that catalysts containing intermetallic NiSi phases (Ni2Si, NiSi, or NiSi2) exhibited higher CO conversions, CH4 selectivity, and catalyst stability than Ni/SiO2. (163) As shown in Figure 7, the SiNi/SiO2-350 catalyst, which was prepared by direct silicification of Ni/SiO2 in a flow of 10% SiH4 in H2 at 350 C (categorized into a CVD method), showed better catalytic performance than Ni/SiO2 in the entire temperature region tested (200600 C). They also suggested that strong interactions between Ni and Si prevented sintering of the nanoparticles and carbon deposition.
Figure 7 Figure 7. (a) CO conversion and (b) CH4 selectivity on Ni/SiO2 catalyst and different SiNi/SiO2-350 catalysts with GHSVs 48000 mL h1 g1 at 1 atm. The short dash line represented thermodynamic equilibrium value. Reproduced with permission from ref 163. Copyright 2014 The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Improved catalytic activity of a Ni-based bimetallic catalyst was also reported by Christensen et al., where alloying with Fe resulted in a 5-fold improvement in CO conversion at 225 C, with a yield for NiFe/MgAl2O4 (Ni:Fe = 1:1) of 41% compared to that of Ni/MgAl2O4 of 8%. (164) Interestingly, this observation was partially motivated by an attempt to optimize the adsorption properties of Ni by alloying according to the volcano-relationship between the activity and dissociative CO adsorption energy. In this relationship, the reaction rate is limited by a high barrier for CO dissociation when CO adsorption is weak, whereas it is limited by the high binding energy of the adsorbed C and O species when CO adsorption is strong. Elemental Ni and Fe are located on the stronger and weaker adsorption sides of the volcano-curve, respectively. Such a concept can be expanded to produce more thorough catalyst designs and predictions. For example, Nrskov and co-workers recently reported the theoretical prediction and discovery of intermetallic Ni5Ga3 catalysts effective for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. (165) They built a theoretical volcano-plot for elemental Pd, Cu, Ni, Zn-doped Cu (uses as the model for the Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 industrial catalyst), and some NiGa intermetallic compounds (Ni3Ga, Ni5Ga3, and NiGa). Using the adsorption energy of an O atom (ΔEO) as a single descriptor for solving a microkinetic model allows TOF to be represented as a single function of EO, showing a volcano-relationship in the form of a concave-down curve (Figure 8). Here, it is important that scaling relations exist between ΔEO and the adsorption energies and the transition-state energies of all the oxygen-bound surface intermediate species for the tested metal surfaces. The plot indicates that Ni5Ga3 and Zn-doped Cu are very close to the top of the curve. Indeed, the prepared Ni5Ga3/SiO2 catalyst showed comparable or higher catalytic activity and much lower byproduction of CO than the conventional Cu/ZnO/Al2O3. As well as Ni-based catalysts, the application of a Pd-based catalyst for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol was also reported. Ota et al. reported that high selectivities to methanol in hydrogenation of CO2 were obtained using nanoparticulate Pd2Ga and PdZn catalysts, which were prepared from hydrotalcite-like compounds including PdZnAl and PdMgGa, respectively. (166) Figure 8 Figure 8. Theoretical activity volcano for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. TOF is plotted as a function of ΔEO, relative to Cu(211). ΔEO for the stepped 211 surfaces of Cu, Ni, and Pd is depicted as open black circles, and Cu+Zn is depicted in orange. ΔEO for NiGa intermetallic compounds is depicted in red. Closed circles indicate nickel-rich sites, open circles gallium-rich sites, and half-open circles mixed sites. Reaction conditions are 500 K, 1 bar, and a CO2:H2 ratio of 1:3. Reprinted with permission from ref 165. Copyright 2014 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.Production of hydrocarbons by reductive oligomerization of CO, namely, FischerTropsch (FT) synthesis, is also categorized in this section. Similarly for CO methanation, a number of Ni-, Co-, Fe-, and Ru-based catalysts have been reported to be active for this reaction. (167) Among them, Ru is known as the most active metal, which operates at the lowest temperatures (e.g., 150 C). It was reported that a RuTi/SiO2 catalyst prepared by a CVD method with titanocene dichloride showed good catalytic performance with a much higher CO conversion (86%) and hydrocarbon selectivity (C3, 15 C-%; C4, 40C-%; C5+, 25 C-%) than that of Ru/SiO2 (C2+, <1 C-%) at 230 C. (168) As a reaction related to COx reduction, they also tested the application of Ni- and Co-based intermetallic compounds to CO2 reforming of methane. Among the various unsupported intermetallic compounds, CoHf2 exhibited 8- and 2.5-fold higher CO2 conversions than monometallic Co and Ni, respectively at 750 C. (169) CoHf2 also showed long-term stability of CO2 conversion over 100 h, whereas that of monometallic Ni declined to half over the same time. Endo et al. reported that the Ni2CeHx, mentioned in section 3.1.2 (ethylene hydrogenation), was also effective for FT synthesis. (170) Although the parent Ni2Ce material showed a CO conversion rate comparable to that of pure Ni, the amorphous intermetallic hydride exhibited a nearly 3-fold higher conversion rate at a reaction temperature of 260 C. The product distributions of C1, C2, C3, and C4 were 49, 26, 20, and 5%, respectively.
3.2 Oxidation
As described in the last section, intermetallic compounds provide catalytic properties superior to those of monometallic catalysts under inert or reductive atmospheres. In contrast, for oxidation reactions, intermetallic compounds face oxidative decomposition that forms oxide phases from the base metals. However, several intermetallic compounds exhibit excellent catalytic performance under relatively mildly oxidative conditions. In this section, a series of oxygen-mediated reactions are categorized into four subsections as follows: (1) oxidative dehydrogenation, (2) oxidative esterification, (3) CO oxidation, and (4) electrooxidation.
3.2.1 Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Oxidative dehydrogenation of alcohols, (171) amines, (172) or hydrocarbons (173) to carbonyl, imine, or alkenyl compounds using molecular oxygen has been extensively studied in terms of fundamental and applied aspects. The reactions for alcohols and amines typically proceed under relatively mild conditions such as an atmospheric oxygen pressure at ca. 100 C. Generally, for oxidative dehydrogenation over Pt-group metals, molecular oxygen is consumed to oxidize the hydrogen atoms eliminated from the substrate to form water. (171) Therefore, an appropriate supply of molecular oxygen does not oxidize the Pt-group metals to cationic states. Pt or Pd catalysts have been studied for alcohol oxidation decades and the addition of typical heavy elements such as Bi, Pb, or Te significantly improves their catalytic activities and/or selectivities. (171) Some researchers suggested that intermetallic phases such as PdBi, (174) Pd3Pb, (175) or Pd3Te (176) are involved in the enhanced catalysis. However, the role of the individual intermetallic phases has not been clarified. On the other hand, many researchers have advocated different rationales for the positive roles of the promoter metals themselves. For example, (1) supply of adsorption sites for oxygen, (177-179) (2) prevention of Pd corrosion, (174, 175) (3) synergetic effects by the noble and second metals, (180, 181, 182) (4) ensemble effects to inhibit side reactions yielding poisoning species (e.g., CC cleavage), (183, 184) (5) complex formation between the second metal and the substrate, (185) and (6) suppression of hydrogen sorption. (186) Recently, Baiker et al. reported an in situ characterization of liquid-phase oxidation of alcohol over a PdBi catalyst using XAFS and attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy techniques in an operando mode. (187) They revealed that Bi inhibited side reactions and supplied oxygen to the catalyst surface. A similar technique was also applied to a PtBi system, suggesting that Bi protected Pt from oxidation and blocked adsorption sites for solventPt interaction. (188) Thus, although useful insights have been provided by spectroscopic methods, the nature of this chemical system is still being debated and is an attractive field for further investigation.
Recently, Au-based bimetallic catalysts have become an appealing subject in alcohol oxidation chemistry. (189) In particular, AuPd alloys show remarkably high catalytic activities and superior selectivities compared with monometallic Pd and Au. (190, 191) For example, Prati et al. reported that Au0.8Pd0.2/C showed 70- and 510-fold higher TOF than Pd/C and Au/C, respectively, in oxidation of benzylalcohol in water at 60 C under 1.5 atm O2. (190) Hutchings et al. also reported enhanced catalytic activity of Pd/C alloyed with Au in benzylalcohol oxidation without solvents at 120 C under 10 atm O2. However, the enhancement in Pd/C was observed only for Pd-rich alloys (Pd content = 5088%) but not for Au-rich alloys. (190) This discrepancy may be stem from the significant difference in reaction conditions. Other than AuPd alloys, AuCu and AuAg alloys were reported to be more active than monometallic Au in oxidation of benzylalcohol.
The oxidation of amines to imines is also an important chemical transformation because of the versatile applications of imines as intermediates in the synthesis of medicines or biologically active nitrogen-containing organic molecules. (172) Developing efficient heterogeneous catalytic systems for aerobic oxidation of amines is important in relation to organic synthesis and industrial applications. Although Ru catalysts, (192, 193) Au catalysts, (194-197) and semiconductor photocatalysts (198-202) have been reported to be effective for amine oxidation, no heterogeneous catalyst has been reported in the literature to provide high catalytic activity, high selectivity, and a wide scope of substrate. The difficulty centers on the limited scope of substrates for secondary amines. This is because the CN bonds of secondary amines of which nitrogen is less sterically hindered are easily cleaved. (194) Therefore, oxidation of sterically hindered secondary amines, such as N-phenyl, N-isopropyl, or N-tert-butylbenzylamine, have typically been tested and reported. Very recently, Furukawa et al. reported that intermetallic Pd3Pb/Al2O3 acts as a highly efficient catalyst for oxidation of various amines. (27) As listed in Scheme 7a, primary, secondary, benzylic, and aliphatic amines could be selectively oxidized into the corresponding imines with high yields within a few hours. Note that the N-methyl and N-ethylbenzylamines and dibutylamines, which are less sterically hindered secondary amines, were successfully converted into the imines. Moreover, monometallic Pd showed a very low catalytic activity, indicating a remarkable promotion effect of Pb on the reaction rate. A mechanistic study based on FTIR, TPD, and kinetic analysis revealed the reaction mechanism (Scheme 7b) and that large Pb atoms weaken the strong adsorption of the product imine to Pd sites, hence promoting imine desorption. (203) This promotion effect changes the rate-determining step from imine desorption to amine adsorption. It is interesting that this activity promotion effect differs from those proposed for alcohol oxidation over Pd-based bimetallic catalysts. On the other hand, the role of Pb in providing the enhanced selectivity (minimized CN cleavage) might be due to an ensemble effect. For Pd3Pb on basic supports, amine adsorption is further accelerated by deprotonation (Scheme 7c), affording a remarkable enhancement in the catalytic activity. Note that this support effect does not appear for monometallic Pd catalysts because the reaction rate is limited by imine desorption. Thus, in this catalytic system, the concerted catalysis between the intermetallic phase and the support plays a key role on the improved catalytic performances.
Scheme 7 Scheme 7. (a) Aerobic Oxidation of Various Amines over Pd3Pb/Al2O3 Catalyst; Reaction Mechanism of Amine Oxidation over Pd3Pb Supported on (b) SiO2, (c) TiO2, Al2O3, and MgO Next, we show an example of an intermetallic catalyst working under severely oxidative conditions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is typically performed at temperatures higher than 200 C. Mixed metal oxides represented by bismuth molybdates are generally used as catalysts for this reaction, (204-207) whereas metallic catalysts such as Pt or Pd have rarely been used. This is due to the strong oxidation ability of zerovalent metals, which causes complete combustion to COx. In a related study, a series of Pd-based intermetallic compounds (PdmMn/SiO2: M = Bi, Fe, Ge, In, Sn, or Zn) were recently tested for oxidative dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3-butadiene at 400 C. (25) Pd3Fe/SiO2 and PdIn/SiO2 showed the highest selectivity to 1,3-butadiene (ca. 40%), which was much higher than that of Pd/SiO2 (15%). In these oxidative conditions, the shell portions of the PdIn particles are decomposed into a composite of highly dispersed Pd clusters and In2O3 (Scheme 8a). On this composite, the CH activation of 1-butene and consumption of the eliminated hydrogen to form water are mediated by Pd and lattice oxygen of In2O3, respectively (Scheme 8b). Molecular oxygen is preferentially used for restoring oxygen vacancies over direct combustion. In this system, the PdIn phase act as a precursor of the active phase and reaches a steady state between decomposition to the PdIn2O3 composite and regeneration to PdIn during the reaction. A similar in situ structural change in the PdIn2O3 composite was also reported from systems of steam reforming of methanol, as shown in Section 3.3.
Scheme 8 Scheme 8. (a) Change in Catalyst Structure during the Reaction; (b) Proposed Reaction Mechanism of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to Butadiene over PdIn/SiO2: (1) Oxidative Decomposition of PdIn to Pd and In2O3, (2) Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to 1,3-Butadiene at the Interface, (3) Reoxidation of In by O2, (4) Over-Reduction, and (5) Combustion by O2
3.2.2 Oxidative Esterification
Oxidative esterification such as acetoxylation of unsaturated hydrocarbons is an important industrial process, to which bimetallic or intermetallic catalysts have been widely applied. (202) This reaction proceeds in the presence of molecular oxygen via oxidative addition of acetic acid to the substrate hydrocarbons, such as benzene, (209) toluene, (210) and 1,3-butadiene, (211) to form acetates. The obtained acetates can be easily converted to phenol, benzylalcohol, and 1,4-butandiol, respectively, which are the important raw materials for resins, perfumes, and fibers. (209-211) Compared with direct oxidation such as benzene oxidation, acetoxylation proceeds at low reaction temperatures (ca. 200 C) and shows high selectivities to the final products. (209) Similarly for alcohol oxidation, Pd-based catalysts containing Au, (210) Tl, (36) Pb, (36) Bi, (36, 208) or Te (209, 212) have been reported to be effective catalysts for acetoxylation. For 1,3-butadiene to 1,4-diacetoxy-2-butene, PdTe (212) and Pd3Tl (36) catalysts showed the highest catalytic activity and selectivity among various Pd-based bimetallic or intermetallic compounds. The PdTe catalyst was industrialized for acetoxylation of 1,3-butadiene by the Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation in the 1980s. (213) This catalyst is also effective for benzene acetoxylation. Asakawa et al. reported that Pd-based alloys (possibly intermetallic compounds) with Te, Bi, and Sb showed a 24-fold higher formation rate of benzylacetate with good selectivity (8095% compared with Pd at ca. 50%). (209) Among these alloys, PdTe alloy were highly resistant to leaching of the second metal, that is, catalyst deactivation. In the case of toluene acetoxylation, Komatsu et al. reported that Pd3Bi/SiO2 and Pd3Pb/SiO2 exhibit high selectivities to benzylacetate compared with other Pd-based catalysts. (32) A similar result was also reported by Miyake et al., (208) who found a sufficiently high catalyst stability with a Pd3Pb half-life of ca. 1000 h, whereas that of Pd was below 100 h.
Intermetallic Pd3Pb is also effective for other esterification process. Yamamatsu et al. reported that Pd3Pb selectively catalyzed oxidative esterification of methacrolein with O2 and methanol to form methyl methacrylate (MMA), (214) which is the major monomer of acrylic resins. Although metallic Pd also catalyzes this reaction, decarbonylation of methacrolein to propylene inevitably occurs, resulting in a poor yield of MMA (typically less than 30%). However, the formation of the Pd3Pb phase significantly improved the selectivity to higher than 95% by inhibiting the byproduction of propylene. Asahi-Kasei Chemical industrialized this catalytic system for MMA production from tert-butylalcohol. (214) In this process, tert-butylalcohol is initially oxidized to methacrolein at 300450 C, followed by direct methyl esterification to MMA at 50100 C. The Pd3Pb catalyst in this process was replaced in 2008 with a coreshell structured NiOx-Au catalyst showing higher catalytic activity and selectivity. (215) Thus, Pd-based intermetallic compounds with typical heavy elements are very stable and suppress undesired side reactions, which makes them effective catalysts for oxidative esterification.
3.2.3 CO Oxidation


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 