I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


CO oxidation by O2 to CO2 is one of the simplest reactions in catalytic chemistry. This reaction is very important not only to fundamental chemistry but also for practical use in the purification of air, exhaust gas, and hydrogen for fuel cells. For purification of hydrogen for PEFC, the CO content should be reduced to ppm levels, which can be achieved by preferential oxidation of CO in excess hydrogen, referred to as preferential oxidation of CO in excess hydrogen (PROX). (216) Many researchers in catalytic chemistry and surface science have made substantial efforts to establish a thorough understanding of CO oxidation chemistry. (217-220) In this area, elemental Pt, Pd, or Rh, particularly the (111) surface, has been the focus of study as a target catalyst material, which can be found in various literature reports. (217) In addition, nanoscale Au was has been a topic of investigation in this field, (219) starting with the discovery of its low-temperature activity for CO oxidation by Haruta et al. (221) In this section, we describe Pt- and Au-based intermetallic compounds that are highly active for CO oxidation and PROX.Saravanan and Abe et al. reported that Pt3Ti/SiO2 showed improved catalytic activity compared with Pt/SiO2 (222) and a 3-fold increase in CO conversion at maximum with a much lower onset (light-off) temperature (Pt3Ti/SiO2, 125 C; Pt/SiO2, 200 C). They explained the higher activity by weakened adsorption of CO on Pt3Ti compared with Pt, which was elsewhere confirmed by thermal desorption techniques. Because CO, in general, fully covers Pt sites, the weaker adsorption of CO promotes its desorption and releases oxygen adsorption sites. In addition, this is a rare example of the preparation of a supported intermetallic compound with an early transition metal and the application to catalytic conversion. For Au-based materials, AuCu catalysts were studied for use in CO oxidation. Zhang et al. showed that intermetallic Au3Cu (223) and Au0.5Cu0.5 alloy (224) supported on SBA-15 converted CO completely to CO2 even at room temperature. Because monometallic Au and Cu supported on SBA-15 showed much lower CO conversions, they suggested some synergy effect to account for the enhanced catalysis. An in situ characterization using X-ray diffraction (XRD), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES), and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) revealed that the Au3Cu intermetallic phase was transformed into a composite of metallic Au and tiny CuOx islands. (223) They proposed that the CuOx acts as an effective oxygen supplier and that low temperature CO oxidation proceeds along the perimeter of Au and CuOx. A similar structural change in AuCu under an oxidative atmosphere was reported by other research groups. (225, 226) Kameoka and Tsai (225) employed bulk AuCu as a catalyst and calcined it at 600 C prior to CO oxidation. This treatment resulted in a two-order increase in the specific surface area (from <0.05 to 8.3 m2g1) by the formation of a porous CuO layer and an increase in the CO conversion (from 20 to ca. 100%). They also reported that a fine porous Au catalyst could be synthesized by acid treatment with bulk AuCu3 to leach Cu, which exhibited an areal rate of CO oxidation comparable to that of Au/TiO2. (227) Other than AuCu, a unique Au-based intermetallic compound, AuNa2, was recently reported to be active for CO oxidation at near room temperature. (228) The estimated apparent activation energy for CO oxidation was 31.6 kJ mol1, which is comparable to that of Au/TiO2. This is also a very rare case of catalytic use of an alkali-metal-containing intermetallic compound. The AuNa2 catalyst was prepared by annealing a mixture of elemental Au and Na at 1050 C, followed by grinding into fine particles under N2 and water treatment. They mentioned that the water treatment removed surface Na species and formed an Au-rich surface. A DFT calculation for CO oxidation over an AuNa2(111) surface revealed that (1) Na atoms in the second layer pop out to the top layer upon O2 exposure and act as binding sites of O2 (Figure 9, IS) and that (2) this allows CO reacting directly with O2 to form an OOCO intermediate, which is kinetically favorable (Figure 9, MS). (228) Figure 9 Figure 9. Reaction pathways of coadsorbed CO and O2 on NaAu2(111) vs Au(221) from initial state (IS) via the intermediate complex OOCO* (MS) to final state (FS) of CO2. Transition states are TS1 and TS2. The C, O, Au, and Na are denoted by gray, red, yellow, and blue spheres, respectively. Barriers on NaAu2(111) are 0.05 eV (TS1) and 0.25 eV (TS2), compared to 0.68 and 0.32 eV on Au(221). Reprinted with permission from ref 228. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society.In the case of PROX conditions, the catalyst is required to be not only selective (not to combust hydrogen) but also active in the low-temperature region (80120 C) corresponding to the working temperature of PEFC. (216) At present, various Pt- and Pd-based bimetallic catalysts have been reported to be effective for PROX. The counterpart metal is a late 3d transition or typical metal (Mn, (229) Fe, (230-232) Co, (223-235) Ni, (236) and Cu (237-239)) present in various states such as oxides, alloys, and intermetallic compounds. The widely accepted explanation for their low-temperature activity is that the second metal acts as an adsorption site for O2, as mentioned for the case of AuCu. (240) A kinetically favored LangmuirHinshelwood-type association of CO and an oxygen species is permitted in the presence of O2 adsorption sites, whereas an EleyRideal association is imposed in the absence of such sites because of the strong adsorption of CO on the Pt surface. Here, we choose some examples of intermetallic catalysts found to be effective for PROX.Bersani et al. tested a series of PdSn bimetallic catalysts for PROX. (241) They compared the catalytic activity of PdSn/Al2O3 with various PdSn ratios and revealed that increasing Sn content of the catalysts was correlated with higher catalytic activity (lower light-off temperature). Although the individual catalytic properties were not clearly mentioned, some intermetallic phases such as Pd3Sn, Pd2Sn, and Pd21Sn13 were observed for Sn-rich catalysts.Komatsu et al. compared the catalytic activity of various SiO2-supported Pt-based intermetallic compounds (PtmMn/SiO2; M = Co, Cu, Fe, Ge, Sn, and Tl) and observed that Pt3Co and PtCu were the most active bimetallic combinations. (38) Optimizing the catalyst support resulted in even more active Pt3Co/MgO (28) and PtCu/Al2O3 (30) catalysts, which exhibited more than 95% CO conversion at 100 and 120 C, respectively. In each case, the CO2 selectivity was 50%. Using an IR-TPD technique for CO adsorbed on PtCu/Al2O3 revealed that (1) Cu presented at the surface of PtCu and that (2) CO adsorption on Cu was much weaker than that on Pt. (30) Moreover, a kinetic study suggested that O2 adsorption was promoted by Cu and competed with CO adsorption. These results strongly indicate that Cu acts as an effective O2 adsorption site. XRD analysis showed that no changes in the PtCu phase, such as segregation of Pt and/or CuOx, occurred after the reaction. Note that the reaction atmosphere dominantly consists of hydrogen, so oxidative decomposition of the parent intermetallic phase is less likely to occur, in contrast with CO oxidation over AuCu. In addition to the O2 supply effect, another unique effect was also proposed to occur in these systems. A mechanistic study using D2 labeling indicated that a kinetically favorable reaction path via the formation of bicarbonate intermediate contributes to the low-temperature activity. (28) The bicarbonate intermediate is formed by the reaction of adsorbed CO on Pt, O2 on Co or Cu, and hydrogen in surface hydroxyl groups (Scheme 9).Scheme 9 Scheme 9. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms of PROX over Pt3Co on an Oxide Support
3.2.4 Electrooxidation
Electrooxidation of fuels such as methanol or ethanol, that are used in direct fuel cells, is one of the most pertinent areas of study for energy conversion from chemicals to electricity. Compared with hydrogen-based fuel cells, direct fuel cells do not require on-site hydrogen storage or onboard steam reformers to produce hydrogen. (242) Monometallic Pt is an excellent electrocatalyst for oxidation of pure hydrogen. However, monometallic Pt is not suitable for the electrodes in small organic fuels because of the destructive poisoning of Pt by CO, which forms as an intermediate during oxidation of organic fuels. PtRu/C is widely known as an efficient electrocatalyst for direct fuel cells, showing a high performance and good CO tolerance compared with Pt/C. (243, 244) However, leaching of Ru from PtRu alloys remains a major problem in direct fuel cells.
Recently, major attention has been focused on Pt-based alloys and intermetallic compounds as electrocatalysts with high catalytic performance and improved corrosion resistance for electrooxidation of methanol, ethanol, or formaldehyde. In 2004, Disalvo and Abrua et al. compared the electrocatalytic performance of a series of Pt-based intermetallic compounds (PtmMn; M = Bi, In, Mn, Pb, Sb, and Sn) for oxidation of methanol, ethanol, formaldehyde, and ethylene glycol. (242) They observed that most bimetallic catalysts exhibited lower onset potentials and higher current densities than pure Pt and that the best performances were obtained with PtPb, PtBi, and PtIn. Among them, PtPb showed an onset potential that was 100 mV less positive and a peak current density ca. 40 times higher than those of Pt for methanol oxidation. A similar improved performance was also reported using PtSb. In 2008, Abe and Disalvo et al. discovered that intermetallic Pt3Ti showed a superior performance (lower onset potential, lower affinity toward CO, and higher current density) compared to pure Pt and PtRu alloys for oxidation of methanol and formic acid. (34) The lower CO affinity is consistent with its weaker adsorption property mentioned in the last section. These discoveries triggered further exploration of more efficient Pt-based intermetallic catalysts. Several Pt-based have very recently been reported to be effective in direct fuel cell applications: PtGa (Pt3Ga + Pt2Ga), (245) Pt3Nb, (46, 47) Pt8Ti, (246) Pt3Zn, (247) hexagonal Pt3Zr, (33) and coreshell structured Pt3PbPtPb. (248) These catalysts are typically nanosized and can be synthesized by liquid-phase reduction of the metal precursors as mentioned in section 2. It should be noted that the as-prepared Pt3Zr phase has a cubic crystal structure, which transforms into a hexagonal phase by annealing at 9001000 C. (33) Interestingly, hexagonal Pt3Zr exhibits higher catalytic activity and stability than cubic Pt3Zr (Figure 10). This enhancement was explained by an increase in surface energy, which was indicated both experimentally and theoretically. (249-251) A high-energy surface is likely to accelerate adsorption of the fuel molecules.
Figure 10 Figure 10. Transformation of Pt3Zr nanoparticles from cubic to hexagonal bulk structures, resulting in activation of fuel-oxidation catalysis on the surface. Reprinted with permission from ref 33. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
3.3 Steam Reforming
Steam reforming of fuels such as methane, methanol, and hydrocarbons is a commonly used process for producing hydrogen. Due to its high hydrogen content and ease of storage and transportation, methanol has been widely accepted as an effective hydrogen source for steam reforming. (252) Currently, Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 catalysts have been commercialized for methanol steam reforming (MSR). (253) However, the byproduction of CO at a level of around 1000 ppm hampers its application to PEFC, where a CO concentration of less than 50 ppm is required. (216) In 1993, a promising catalyst was discovered by Iwasa et al. They reported that the catalytic activity and CO2 selectivity of Pd was drastically improved when ZnO was used as a support. (254) Further characterization revealed that Pd atoms mediated reduction of ZnO to atomic Zn by hydrogen, followed by alloying to form an intermetallic PdZn phase on ZnO. (255, 256) Recent reports oriented toward practical uses suggested that the use of Pd/ZnO catalysts is feasible in designing high-performance methanol steam reformers for portable device applications. (257) The discovery of Pd/ZnO (PdZn/ZnO) catalysts triggered widespread interest for researchers not only in catalytic chemistry but also in the area of fundamental characterization, surface science, and theoretical calculations. Tsai and the collaborators performed XPS and DFT studies on the electronic structure of the PdZn phase. (258) They observed that the Pd 4d level shifted downward away from the Fermi level upon alloying with Zn, resulting in a valence band structure almost identical to that of pure Cu. On the other hand, the valence band structures of less selective PtZn and NiZn differ from those of Cu and PdZn. Interestingly, they also showed that PdCd as an electronic analogue of PdZn gave a high selectivity comparable to those of PdZn and Cu. Based on this observation, they proposed that the catalytic properties necessary for MSR are solely governed by the valence band structure of the catalyst. In a similar manner, they showed that the valence band structure of Pd could be reproduced by alloying Cu and Ni and that a CuNi alloy gave high CO selectivity in MSR and methanol decomposition, which was identical to the behavior of Pd. (259) A number of theoretical approaches to understanding the catalytic properties of PdZn have also been made. (260-264) In terms of calculations, the most stable (111), (100), and the stepped (221) (including Pd- and Zn-terminated) surfaces of intermetallic PdZn with a L10 structure were considered. Xie and Guo et al. performed a thorough DFT study on MSR over PdZn considering the involvement of both methanol and water, the latter of which decisively affects the selectivity. (262) They reported that dehydrogenation of methanol to formaldehyde was kinetically favored on the flat (111) surface (Scheme 10, blue lines), whereas deep dehydrogenation to CO was kinetically unfavorable (Scheme 10, red lines). In contrast, another pathway involving the reaction of formaldehyde with OH, formed by water activation was suggested as a kinetically favorable and likely route to form CO2 (Scheme 10, green lines). The formaldehyde intermediate undergoes deep dehydrogenation to CO or hydroxylation to CO2, which is the turning point determining selectivity. There is approximately 50 kJ mol1 difference in activation energy for PdZn, resulting in the selective CO formation. They also demonstrated that the reaction network on PdZn(111) is very similar to that on Cu(111), which is also consistent with the similarities in the d band structures of PdZn and Cu. A modified overview considering the contribution of PdZn(221) stepped surfaces was also proposed. (22) The activation energies in methanol dehydrogenation to formaldehyde on PdZn(221) surfaces were significantly lower than those on PdZn(111) (260, 265, 266) and close to the experimental apparent activation energy (48 kJ mol1). (267) Therefore, the overall reaction network designated in red values in Scheme 10 is more likely.
Scheme 10 Scheme 10. Proposed Reaction Network for MSR on PdZn(111) and (211) Surfaces;a Adapted with Permission from Ref 262. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society Scheme aThe reaction barriers are given in black and red values for (111) and (211) surfaces, respectively. The CO and CO2 channels are colored in red and green, respectively.
Armbrster et al. investigated the effect of the Pd/Zn composition ratio on catalytic performance in MSR. (268) Since the intermetallic PdZn phase possesses a range of compositions (4762.5%Pd), allowing an enrichment in one component without changing the parent tetragonal crystal structure is allowed. They varied the composition of the bulk PdxZny within x = 0.470.59 and revealed that the catalytic activity and selectivity drastically dropped in the Pd-rich region. Surprisingly, the drop in selectivity (from ca. 95 to less than 20%) was observed in a very narrow range (x = 0.480.53). They also pointed out the presence of Zn oxide species on Zn-rich catalysts that were prereduced. On the basis of these results, they proposed that the significant functionality in selective catalysis for SRM arises from the combined effects of PdZn and Zn oxide rather than the intermetallic PdZn phase alone. (268) In relation to this finding, a DFT study on water activation showed that the ZnO(0001) surface (41 kJ mol1) (269) displayed a lower activation energy than the PdZn(221)Zn surface (4359 kJ mol1), (270) suggesting a contribution from Zn oxide species. In this context, Zn oxide likely acts as an effective activation site for water, which is necessary for conversion to CO2. Further details on the properties of PdZn catalysts can be found in recent reviews by Armbrster et al. (22) Their group also reported certain related bimetallic systems for use in MSR. For example, they recently showed that an intermetallic PdIn or Pd2In3 phase was formed on PdO/In2O3 with H2 treatment at 300 or 390 C, respectively. (271) The catalysts containing these intermetallic phases exhibited good CO2 selectivities (PdIn 91%, Pd2In3 98%) and long-term stability up to 100 h in MSR. Bulk intermetallic NiZn was also studied for MSR, which showed 98% selectivity to CO2. (272) In this case, the parent NiZn phase was partially decomposed into a mixture of NiZn, ZnO, and a Ni0.7Zn0.3 alloy, the latter of which was suggested to be true active phase for MSR. Besides, Pd2Ga formed from a hydrotalcite-like PdMgGa composite was reported to be effective for MSR. (166)
3.4 Other Reactions
Here, we cover several intermetallic compound catalysts that have been used for reactions not included in the previous sections. PtSn (273) and PdZn (274, 275) phases were reported to be active in the reverse water gas shift reaction. PdZn also shows high selectivity to oxygenated products in the hydroformylation of ethylene. (276) A series of bulk Ru-based intermetallic compounds (RumMn, M = Ce, Dy, Ge, La, Nb, Sc, Si, Ta, Ti, Y, Zr) were tested for use in ammonia decomposition to produce H2 and N2. (277) Ru2La was found to be more active than other intermetallic compounds and monometallic Ru. This observation was extended to the development of a Raney-type RuLa catalyst prepared by base treatment of the ternary intermetallic compound Ru2LaAl10. The Raney-type RuLa catalyst showed a high specific surface area (ca. 100 m2g1) and higher TOF than the corresponding Raney Ru catalyst prepared from Ru4Al13.
3.5 Remarks
We have listed a number of intermetallic or alloy catalysts for various types of reactions. It is challenging to find a simple and clear-cut concept to describe the diverse roles of the bimetallic phases in enhanced catalysis. However, one may extract some general assessments for each reaction category as follows.
For selective (de)hydrogenation, intermetallic phases provide certain functions to protect or release a specific functional group, mainly alkenyl CC bonds, such as (1) anchoring sites, (2) modifying adsorption properties, or (3) molecular recognition ability.
For oxidation and steam reforming, the positive roles of the intermetallic phases can be distinguished as follows: (i) suppressing undesired side reactions, (ii) improving catalyst stability, (iii) providing O2 adsorption sites, and (iv) acting as precursors of the active components. Since oxidation and steam reforming typically use more severe conditions compared with reactions performed in inert or reductive atmospheres, the roles (ii) and (iv) have important implications.
To develop a comprehensive understanding of the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, one should work not only to develop good catalysts but also to elucidate the process of catalysis at an atomic level. Therefore, to avoid complications in mechanistic studies, meeting the following criteria is desirable: (a) high phase purity, (b) use of inert supports or bulk materials, and (c) simple reaction conditions. Satisfying these concerns will reinforce the reliability of mechanistic studies, characterizations, and theoretical approaches. 4 Important Effects Controlling Catalysis In the previous section, we showed that intermetallic catalysts provide various effects that enhance catalysis. In this section, these effects are divided into several categories and explained in detail. In addition to the conventional (1) electronic and (2) geometric effects, we introduce (3) steric and (4) ordering effects, which are observed only for intermetallic compounds. These effects sometimes appear together, and therefore, one should carefully distinguish the contributions of each individual effect on enhanced catalysis.
4.1 Electronic Effect
The term ligand effect is used for a change in the catalytic or adsorption properties by modification of the electronic states of the parent metal on alloying with a second metal. (278) Historically, this term was coined to indicate an electronic perturbation by neighboring second metal atoms against a long-range electronic effect. (279) However, these days, this term has been used almost synonymously with electronic effects. (278, 280) The degree of modification depends strongly on the nature and composition of the second metal. In general, a drastic change in the electronic state critically affects the heat of adsorption and the activation barrier, thereby altering catalytic activity and/or selectivity. However, many literature reports on bimetallic catalysts provide fragmentary information about the relationship between the electronic state and reactivity, which makes it challenging to establish a clear-cut relationship. In this section, we describe some systematic studies that clearly represent how the electronic state governs reactivity.
For transition-metal-based catalysts, the character of d band structure may govern catalysis because valence d electrons mediate the adsorption and elementary reaction steps. On the basis of this concept, the HammerNrskov d band model, the so-called d band theory, has been developed to establish a clear-cut relationship between reactivity and d band character. (281, 282) According to this model, the adsorptivity and reactivity are determined by the position of the center of mass of d electrons and holes (d band centers) relative to the Fermi level. This is because the d band center determines the positions of bonding and antibonding states, and hence the degree of filling of the antibonding states. The entire d band structure can be observed experimentally using X-ray emission and absorption spectra in the valence band region, which reflect occupied and unoccupied states, respectively. Alternatively, Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) techniques can be used. Linic et al. employed the latter techniques with the aid of DFT calculations for the NiSn system. (283) They found that (1) the addition of Sn to Ni weakened adsorption of various species such as C, O, CH, and CO and that (2) the d band center of Ni was downshifted by alloying with Sn. These observations were reasonably linked on the basis of d band theory. They also revealed that the number of d electrons and holes of Ni were preserved upon alloying with Sn, indicating no charge transfer between Ni and Sn. The change in the d band structure was explained by the formation of new electronic states due to hybridization between the d states of Ni and the s and p states of Sn.
A more clear relationship between reactivity and d band center was reported by Stamenkovic et al. They observed a volcano-relationship between activity in oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) over Pt3M (M = Ti, V, Fe, Co, and Ni) and their d band center values (Figure 11). (284) This trend is explained as follows. When the d band center is too far from the Fermi level (left side of the volcano), weak adsorption of O2 and intermediates limit the reaction rate. On the other hand, if the d band center is too close to the Fermi level (right side of the volcano), strong adsorption of surface species such as OH inhibits the release of free Pt and limits the reaction rate. A similar relationship was also reported, for H2D2 equilibration over Ni and various Ni3M intermetallic compounds (M = Ge, Nb, Sn, Ta, and Ti). (285) A strong positive correlation was observed (Figure 12) between the d band centers and the apparent activation energies obtained by Arrhenius-type plots. The lower d band center weakens NiH(D) bonds, which lowers the desorption barrier of HD. For H2D2 equilibration, the desorption barrier of HD corresponds to the overall activation energy (Scheme 11). In this case, no top was observed as in the case for ORR, probably due to the absence of any competing path. Although these two studies estimated the d band center only from XPS or ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS), it should be noted that good correlations were found. In a related study, it was reported that the d band centers measured from photoelectron spectroscopy agreed with those calculated by DFT. (286) This might be due to the much smaller number of unoccupied states than of occupied states.
Figure 11 Figure 11. Relationships between experimentally measured specific activity for the ORR on Pt3M surfaces in 0.1 M HClO4 at 333 K versus the d band center position for the Pt-skin surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 284. Copyright 2007 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.
Figure 12 Figure 12. Relationship between the apparent activation energy of H2D2 equilibrium over Ni and Ni3M intermetallics and their potentials of the d band center.
Scheme 11 Scheme 11. (a) Energy Diagram of the Electronic State of NiH(D) Bonding and (b) Energy Profiles of H2D2 Equilibration over Ni and Ni3M Intermetallic Compounds In addition to the structure of the valence band, electron density of the active metal is often considered as the key role to control catalytic performance. The formation of intermetallic phase typically induces charge transfer from one metal to the other due to the significant difference in the electron-withdrawing character. (79, 81, 86) Partially charged metal atoms are likely to interact preferentially with polar molecules, providing a specific reaction pathway. The electron density of the active metal component of intermetallic compounds is evaluated typically by vibrational frequency of adsorbed CO, where the electron density affects the CO bond strength by π back-bonding. Figure 13 shows the relationship between vibrational frequencies of linearly adsorbed CO on Rh-based intermetallic compounds and their calculated atomic charges (Hirshfeld charge) of bulk or surface Rh. (81) A strong correlation was observed between the vibrational frequencies and Rh atomic charges, demonstrating that the vibrational frequency effectively reflects the electron density of Rh. Rh becomes electron-rich by the formation of intermetallic phases with the partial charge ranging from 0 to 0.14. It should be noted that the electron density of Rh can be controlled by choosing an appropriate second metal. For most compounds, atomic charges of surface Rh were slightly more negative than those of bulk Rh, probably due to the presence of dangling bonds.
Figure 13 Figure 13. Relationship between vibrational frequencies of linearly adsorbed CO on Rh-based catalysts and their atomic charges (Hirshfeld charge) of bulk or surface Rh.
Thus, we here show that the electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment.
4.2 Geometric Effect
The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase changes the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface. From a microscopic perspective, the incorporation of catalytically inert or less-active metals (N) into the surface lattice of the parent active metal (M) decreases the coordination number of the surface MM shell and the size of M ensembles. Therefore, adsorption and/or reactions that require multifold sites or large ensembles are less favored on the alloyed surface, increasing the selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an ensemble effect. (279) In addition, a sufficient reduction in the ensemble size is referred to as site isolation. (95, 96) As mentioned occasionally in section 3, ensemble effects have been frequently associated with various selective conversions. There has been several reactions that require large ensembles as follows: (1) hydrogenolysis, (287-289) (2) dehydrocyclyzation, (289) (3) acetylene coupling to benzene, (290) (4) alkylidene formation, (91) and (5) dissociative adsorption of CO (291) and NO. (292) Among these, hydrogenolysis of CC, CO, or CN bonds and alkylidene formation leading to alkane typically occur in the hydrogenation or dehydrogenation process as undesired side reactions. Because hydrogenation or dehydrogenation does not require large ensembles, (91) the formation of an intermetallic phase that reduces the ensemble size, drastically improves the selectivity for the desired reaction.
Thus, in a commonly used sense, the ensemble effect indicates the change in the adsorption modes due to the reduction of the ensemble size. However, in some cases, this term means the change in adsorption energy itself due to the replacement of the adsorbent atom, (278, 293) which often becomes the driving force to change the adsorption mode. In this context, the formation of intermetallic or alloy phases is generally accompanied not only by ensemble effects but also by ligand effects. This is because the incorporation of the second metal, whose character differs significantly from the parent metal, typically induces a drastic change in the electronic structure and hence in the adsorption strength and reaction profiles as well. Therefore, it is important to distinguish the individual contributions of these effects. Nrskov et al. proposed a theory-based quantitative estimation of ligand and ensemble effects using CO adsorption on the Au-doped Pd(111) surface. (293)Scheme 12 shows a schematic illustration of this concept: CO is adsorbed on a series of hollow sties, where the number of Au atoms in the hollow site increases from 0 to 3. The number of Au atoms neighboring the hollow site differs between the upper and lower columns. In each column, the energy gained by Au incorporation includes the contribution of both ensemble and ligand effects (total effect = En+1  En) because the adsorbent atom and composition vary. Here, the ligand effect is represented as the difference in adsorption energy between two hollow sites with an identical Pd/Au composition and different numbers of neighboring Au atoms, namely, En  En. The ensemble effect is obtained by subtracting the ligand effect from the corresponding total effect, namely, En+1  En. Figure 14 shows the ligand, ensemble, and total effects as functions of n, revealing that the ensemble effect dominates the total effect. (293) Scheme 12 Scheme 12. Quantitative Estimation of Ensemble and Ligand Effectsa Scheme aThe red circle indicates the site of CO adsorption.
Figure 14 Figure 14. Separation of the ligand and ensemble effects from the total effect for the case of CO adsorption on hollow sites of Au/Pd(111). The number along the horizontal axes corresponds to the number of Au atoms at the hollow site. The squares, circles, and triangles correspond to total effect, ligand effect, and ensemble effect, respectively. Reproduced with permission from ref 293. Copyright 2001 PCCP Owner Societies.
Another approach to studying an intrinsic ensemble effect was recently reported by Widmer et al. using well-defined PdGa(111) and (111) surfaces. (294) Although these two surfaces have equal surface symmetries and very similar electronic structures, the atomic configurations of Pd differ significantly: (111) has a separated 3-fold Pd3 trimer, whereas (111) has an isolated single Pd1 atom. These specific characteristics allow the intrinsic ensemble effect to be studied with a minimum contribution from ligand effects. Figure 15 shows scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) images of PdGa(111) and (111) surfaces with a very low coverage of CO adsorption. (294) CO molecules were adsorbed on the hollow site for the (111) surface (triangular depression), whereas they occurred on the top site for the (111) surface (bright protrusion). A reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS) study revealed that for the (111) surface, migration to on-top adsorption was observed upon an increase in the CO coverage, whereas for (111), only on-top adsorption was observed. Note that no bridging CO was observed on PdGa(111) unlike for Pd(111), where migration to hollow, bridge, and on-top adsorption is typically observed. These observations could be attributed to the intrinsic ensemble effect of the specific Pd configurations.
Figure 15 Figure 15. STM images of PdGa:B(111) and PdGa:B(111) surfaces. Pd and Ga are indicated by cyan and red balls. Reprinted with permission from ref 294. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
For ensemble effects, the second metal atom is present as a spacer that separates the active metal atoms. In contrast, for some intermetallic catalysts, the second metal atom acts as a chemically functional site, such as an anchoring site for alcohols, carbonyl groups, or molecular oxygen. This allows preferential adsorption of specific molecules (or functional groups) and/or spatial separation of the other molecule or group that should be protected from the active metal, promoting the desired reaction. Therefore, this kind of effect, termed site addition, can also be categorized as a geometric effect. Next, we show an example of the site addition effect allowing a drastic change in the product selectivity. As shown in section 3.1.4, PdZn/Al2O3 shows a high selectivity in alcohol-based N-alkylation of reactive amines, whereas Pd/Al2O3 gave poor selectivity to the desired product. (149) The selectivity generally depends on which alcohol or amine is activated: alcohol activation leads to N-alkylation, while amine activation leads to undesired amine dimerization. Figure 16 shows the adsorption energies of O and N atoms on hollow sites of Pd(111), PdCu(110), and PdZn(111) surfaces. (149) On Pd(111), N shows a higher adsorption energy than O, representing the azophilic character of Pd. In contrast, for PdCu(110), incorporation of Cu inverted this trend, producing an oxophilic surface. On PdZn(111), adsorption of O becomes much more strongly favored with a difference in adsorption energy of 90 kJ mol1. Thus, a drastic change in the adsorption properties is achieved by the formation of a PdZn phase, which is attributed to the strong oxophilic character of the Zn atom. Thus, the PdZn surface is capable of preferential adsorption and activation of alcohol over amines, enabling highly selective N-alkylation catalysis. Figure 17 shows the relationship between selectivity and the difference in adsorption energy between N and O (ΔEON). (149) The relative reaction rate of alcohol activation over amine activation was employed as a measure of selectivity. A strong positive correlation was observed, demonstrating the preferential adsorption and activation achieved by surface modification. Note that the vertical axis is represented on a logarithmic scale. This is because the relative rate should be proportional to the exponential of the energy difference, provided that the selectivity is thermodynamically controlled. A detailed explanation is provided in the next section. Thus, an intermetallic compound that has additional functional sites neighboring at the atomic level provides an effective bifunctional reaction environment.
Figure 16 Figure 16. Calculated adsorption energies of oxygen (EO) and nitrogen (EN) atoms on various Pd-based surfaces. Optimized structures of the surfaces with oxygen atoms adsorbed on the hollow sites are shown.
Figure 17 Figure 17. Relation between rA/rD and ΔEON.
In a strict sense, this site addition effect might include both geometric and electronic contributions similarly to the discussion for the quantitative estimation of ensemble and ligand effects (Scheme12 and Figure 14). In this context, one may wonder about the change in the adsorption properties due to the modified d band structure of PdZn being similar to that of Cu, as mentioned in section 3.3. However, it was reported that Cu/Al2O3 showed a lower selectivity in N-alkylation than PdZn/Al2O3: for example, for N-benzylation of aniline, Cu/Al2O3 shows 85% selectivity, while PdZn/Al2O3 exhibits >99% selectivity. (295) Therefore, the high selectivity observed for PdZn cannot be explained only by the electronic effects.
4.3 Steric Effect
Electronic and geometric effects are generally observed for both alloys and intermetallic compounds. This means that the orderedness of intermetallic phases is not essential to these effects. One may question which functions only intermetallic compounds can do. Considering that a specific and ordered atomic arrangement appears on the surface of intermetallic compounds, such an environment might impose some steric restrictions to adsorbate configurations and/or reaction dynamics, thereby allowing controlled catalysis. Very recently, two examples of such catalysis were reported by Furukawa et al. using Rh-based intermetallic compounds. One is the stereoselective alkene isomerization by hydrogen over RhSb/SiO2, (123) briefly mentioned in section 3.1.2. Hydrogen-mediated alkene isomerization is generally accompanied by overhydrogenation to alkane due to hydrogen attack from several directions. However, some Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds belonging to the orthorhombic Pnma space group (RhSb, RuSb, and RhGe) showed high trans-alkene selectivity in isomerization of cis-stilbene (Figure 18, red bars). In contrast, Rh and Rh-based intermetallic compounds of the cubic Pm3m space groups (RhGa, RhIn, and RhZn) showed low selectivities to trans-stilbene over overhydrogenated diphenylethane. A similar result was also observed for isomerization of cis-β-methylstylene (Figure 18, green bars), suggesting that the selectivity depends on the space group of the solid. To the best of our knowledge, this observation, space-group-dependent selectivity, has never been reported in the literature on catalytic conversion. Interestingly, for cis-β-methylstylene, each selectivity was slightly lower than that for cis-stilbene. Thus, the selectivity is likely to depend not only on the space group of the solid but also on the steric hindrance of the alkyl group of alkenes. These results strongly suggest that some steric effects occur on the specific surface structure of Pnma intermetallic compounds. A Wulff construction and FT-IR study with CO adsorption on RhSb revealed that the surface was dominated by (211), (020), and (013) planes (Scheme 13). (123) These surfaces certainly display specific atomic arrangements, where one-dimensionally aligned and slightly zigzagged Rh and Sb arrays appear. DFT calculations showed that on these planes (hereafter, 1D-planes), hydrogen diffusion on the surface is restricted in the direction along the Rh arrays. Moreover, DFT calculations with adsorbed cis-2-butene suggested that access of hydrogen to the alkenyl carbon atoms of cis-2-butene is limited to only one direction (Scheme 13, light green arrow) because of the steric hindrance of one methyl group of cis-2-butene (Scheme 13, right side). This unique hydrogenation behavior allows one-atom hydrogenation for isomerization but inhibits two-atom hydrogenation for alkane formation. Thus, the specific surface structure of 1D-planes imposed a steric restriction on the reaction dynamics of hydrogen addition. On the other hand, for cubic compounds, overhydrogenation over Rh-terminated planes such as (100) is attributed to the low selectivities.
Figure 18 Figure 18. Selectivities to trans-alkenes during cis-stilbene and cis-β-methylstyrene isomerizations catalyzed by various SiO2-supported Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds and monometallic Rh under atmospheric pressure of H2. Selectivities at 50% conversion are shown. The space group of the metallic phase appears in parentheses.
Scheme 13 Scheme 13. (a) Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization via Alkyl Intermediate; (b) Equilibrium Crystal Shape and the Corresponding Surface Atomic Arrangement of a RhSb Nanoparticle; and (c) Limited Hydrogen Access to cis-2-butene Adsorbed on RhSb(020) Plane The other example is the selective hydrogenation of nitroarenes over RhIn/SiO2, (81) mentioned in section 3.1.1.2. In this catalytic system, the selectivity to aminostyrene at 50% conversion varies widely from 3% (Rh/SiO2) to 97% (RhIn/SiO2), depending on the metallic phase. A kinetic study on this system revealed that the rate-determining step was hydrogen supply (dissolution or diffusion) and that adsorption of the substrate nitrostyrene was saturated. Therefore, the selectivity depends on which functional group of nitrostyrene, nitro or vinyl, binds preferentially to the surface. Figure 19 shows the relationship between nitro-hydrogenation selectivity and adsorption energy (Ead) of 4-nitrostyrene (NS) with nitro and vinyl moieties. (81) As a selectivity scale, the ratio of the nitro hydrogenation rate to the vinyl hydrogenation rate (rNO2/rCC) was set as the y-axis. The Ead of vinyl adsorption differed drastically depending on the surface, displaying a positive correlation with selectivity. Conversely, for nitro adsorption, the Ead values are within a small range without any correlation. Thus, the selectivity varies depending on the favorability of vinyl adsorption. For monometallic Rh, multiple coordination to Rh ensembles makes vinyl adsorption significantly favored. This is clearly reflected in the presence of aromatic CH bonds with sp3-like conformations. However, for bimetallic surfaces, this effect is diminished by inert second metal atoms adjacent to Rh atoms. The aromatic CH bonds show sp2-like conformations (e.g., RhZn and RhPb2), suggesting very weak adsorption. Vinyl adsorption becomes much less favored when the Rh sites are concave (e.g., RhIn and RhBi). This is because bending of the π plane is needed to avoid the significant steric hindrance between the second metal and the phenyl ring. On the other hand, such steric hindrance can be avoided for nitro adsorption because the nitro adsorption has an end-on geometry, thereby fitting within the concave Rh sites. Thus, the concave Rh structure observed for RhIn(110) is capable of chemoselective molecular recognition.
Figure 19 Figure 19. Relationship between the nitro hydrogenation selectivity (rNO2/rCC) and the adsorption energy of NS on slab models with vinyl (square) or nitro (triangle) moiety. Several NS structures are shown.
The relationship between the selectivity and Ead has a physical meaning as represented in eq 1:where rx, NSx, NS, and Ex (x = NO2 or CC) are the hydrogenation rate of x, adsorbed NS with x, unadsorbed NS, and adsorption energy of NS with x, respectively. The equation indicates the conversion of the rate ratio to the adsorbate concentration ratio and represents the fraction of adsorbed NS using the Boltzmann distribution equation with its Ead. As a consequence, a simple proportional relationship is found between the logarithm of the rate ratio and ΔE. The plot of this function shows a good linear relationship through the origin (Figure 20), demonstrating the validity of this model. (81) Figure 20 Figure 20. Relationship between ln(3rNO2/rCC) and ΔEad (ECC  ENO2) for RhM/SiO2.
In summary, we showed two examples of novel steric effects governed by specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds. These effects and selective conversions rely strongly on the specific and ordered surface atomic arrangement, and hence, they are surely functions that only intermetallic compounds can perform. Although only a few examples have been discovered as of yet, future investigations will bring similar observations and open up a new horizon for this area of chemistry.
4.4 Ordering Effect
The major difference between intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys is whether the structure is ordered or disordered. Therefore, if the catalytic performance of an ordered alloy is superior to that of a disordered alloy with identical metal compositions and crystal systems, the resulting improvement should be termed ordering effect. Here, we should consider a certain bimetallic alloy that is able to form both ordered and disordered structures. For bulk materials, such bimetallic combinations are rare (e.g., AuCu, PtFe, PtCo, and PtCu). These pairs of metals are slightly separated in the periodic table compared with solid-solution alloys (Figure 3). Therefore, these alloys have intermediate characters between those of solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds. Ordered alloys in this category are called Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds, (296) which have very large compositional ranges. As shown in the phase diagram of the PtCo bimetallic system (Figure 21), (297) the ordered PtCo phase ranges from ca. 40 to 75% Co in the low-temperature region. However, above 825 C, Pt and Co become isomorphous, and disordered PtCo alloys are formed. In the case of nanoparticles, deviation from phase diagrams may occur because their situation differs significantly from that of bulk materials (e.g., effects of dangling bonds). Ordered and disordered structures are distinguished by the presence or absence of additional diffraction patterns derived from the superlattice structures. Figure 22a shows the XRD patterns of ordered PtCu3 and disordered Pt0.25Cu0.75 particles with their atomic arrangements. (298) Ordered PtCu3 exhibited two additional peaks at 24 and 34 corresponding to 100 and 110 reflections of the Pm3m structure, respectively. Conversely, for disordered Pt0.25Cu0.75, these reflections do not appear due to the extinction rule for the highly symmetric Fm3m space group. Figure 22b shows TEM image of a partially ordered PtCu3 nanoparticle with coreshell disorderedordered structure. The fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the core and shell regions (Figure 22c,d, respectively) showed the corresponding Fm3m and Pm3m reflections, respectively.
Figure 21 Figure 21. Phase diagram of PtCo system.
Figure 22 Figure 22. (a) XRD patterns of ordered and disordered carbon supported PtCu3 samples together with the representative Pm3m and Fm3m atomic arrangements, illustrated on the right. Structural analysis of partially ordered PtCu3 nanoparticles. (b) High-resolution TEM image of a single PtCu3 nanoparticle crystal oriented along the crystallographic [110] axis showing an apparent coreshell disorderedordered structure. Averaged FFT power spectra of the (c) shell region with additional symmetry-specific Pm3m reflections (indicated with 110 and 001); and the (d) core Fm3m region without the superstructure reflections. Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.The ordering effect was first reported by Watanabe et al. in 1994, where ordered and disordered PtCo alloys were tested for ORR. (299) They prepared an ordered tetragonal PtCo alloy (intermetallic compound) by annealing as-prepared PtCo at 600 C. Additional annealing at 800 or 900 C followed by quenching resulted in a structural transformation into the disordered PtCo alloy with an fcc structure, which is consistent with the phase diagram shown in Figure 21. They found that the ordered PtCo alloy showed 1.35-fold higher electrocatalytic activity. In this decade, similar improvements in electrocatalytic performance have been reported using Pt3Ti, (34) Pt3Co, (300, 301) PtFe, (302) and PtCu3. (298, 303-305) Note that in some of these materials, remarkable enhancements in electrocatalytic activity and durability have been achieved through structure ordering. (34, 301, 304) For instance, for Pt3Ti-catalyzed methanol electrooxidation, Pt3Ti with an ordered Pm3m structure (intermetallic compound with an L12 structure) showed a much higher current density than that with a disordered Fm3m structure (solid-solution alloy with an fcc structure (e.g., 0.34 vs 0.084 mAcm2 at the potential of +0.6 V), (34) indicating an influence from the ordering effect. In this study, the ordered Pt3Ti was prepared by annealing the disordered Pt3Ti at 600 C, causing a significant increase in the particle size form ca. 3 to 37 nm. Therefore, involvement of a size effect in enhanced catalytic performance has been suggested in addition to the ordering effect. Thus, in most of the cases referred to above, the important factors affecting the electrocatalytic performance typically varies, such as particle size distribution and/or the bimetallic composition, making it challenging to clarify the intrinsic contribution of the ordering effect on enhanced performance.Very recently, Hodnik et al. studied the ordering effect in ORR using ordered and disordered PtCu3 alloys with an identical initial composition, particle dispersion, and size distribution to eliminate all coinciding effects. (298) They observed that the ordered PtCu3 nanoparticles supported on carbon exhibited higher electrocatalytic performance and durability in various conditions than the disordered PtCu3 catalyst. The higher durability was attributed to a higher resistance to Cu leaching in the ordered structure. The ordered PtCu3 structure statistically includes 24 CuCu and 24 PtCu bonds per unit cell on average, whereas the disordered structure contains 27 CuCu, 18 PtCu, and 3 PtPt bonds. Considering the much lower potential of copper leaching from a Cu substrate than from Pt (0.34 to 0.7 V), (306, 307) the ordered structure containing fewer CuCu bonds should exhibit higher resistance to Cu leaching. Although the authors did not clearly mention it, in our opinion the higher resistance to Cu leaching could be categorized as an ordering effect, namely, a geometric ordering effect. This effect maximizes the number of ideal sites (here, PtCu bonds). To exclude the effect of Cu leaching, they also plotted the specific and mass activities as functions of the amount of Cu removed as shown in Figure 23. (298) The ordered PtCu3 showed higher activities than the disordered PtCu3 in the entire region, clearly indicating that the greater amount of residual Cu is not the sole reason for the enhancement and that an intrinsic ordering effect is operating. Although the nature of the intrinsic ordering effect has not been clarified, they suggested two possibilities: the ordered structure (1) changes the lateral strain in the Pt-skin overlayer, modifying the binding energies of the adsorbates and (2) results in the formation of a skin-type rather than a skeleton-type morphology after dealloying. In any case, the observed ordering effect is certainly another example of what only intermetallic compounds can do, in addition to the steric effect.Figure 23 Figure 23. (a) Specific activity and (b) mass activity in relation to the copper content of the electrolyte upon different electrochemical treatments (dealloying and subsequent degradation). Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.From a macroscopic perspective, the durability of ordered alloys may be related to their higher thermodynamic stability, that is, a negative heat of ordering (ΔH0). Considering that the change in entropy for ordering is negative (ΔS0 < 0), ΔH0 must be sufficiently negative (ΔH0 < 0) to cancel out the entropy term because the formation of an ordered structure upon annealing at high temperatures is spontaneous (ΔG0 < 0). This concept is consistent with the observation that annealing at very high temperatures results in disordering (>800 C, PtCo) (299) due to the significant contribution of the entropy term.
4.5 Remarks
In this section, we have summarized the various effects that control the catalytic performance of intermetallic compounds (i.e., electronic, geometric, steric, and ordering effects). It is noteworthy that the electronic state and the surface environment of the catalyst can be well controlled by an appropriate choice of a bimetallic combination and composition. This allows for more sophisticated fine-tuning of the catalyst design compared with conventional techniques for inorganic heterogeneous catalysts. 5 Future Tasks in This Field As mentioned in the above sections, intermetallic compounds have various advantages that aid in constructing well-structured reaction environments. However, several future tasks should be considered in order to develop and establish a novel catalytic chemistry based on intermetallic compounds, as outlined below. In addition, several challenges involved in performing highly difficult reactions using intermetallic compounds are also mentioned.
5.1 Stability of Surface Structures
For heterogeneous solid catalysts, any catalytic reaction occurs at the outermost surface of the solid. Therefore, the real surface structure of the catalyst material should be taken into account. Particularly for intermetallic catalysts operating in the presence of oxidizing molecules such as O2 or H2O, it is necessary to know whether the second metal retains its original intermetallic state in order to determine the role of the intermetallic phase. In relation to this, Behrens et al. recently showed an example of an intermetallic compound of which surface was highly sensitive to air and water. (111, 308) They observed that the surface of Pd2Ga decomposed into a mixture of Pd and Ga oxide species even under an Ar atmosphere with trace amounts of O2 and H2O (<100 ppb), indicating the highly oxophilic character of Ga. In this system, TEM observations showed that a thin Ga oxide overlayer was observed around the surface of Pd2Ga particles. A similar surface decomposition of Pd2Ga was also confirmed in liquid-phase hydrogenation of alkynes. The formation of oxide phase in the presence of oxygen was also observed for PdZn catalysts. (268) A highly oxophilic character of the component of intermetallic compounds was also observed for Pd3Ti or Pd3Nb, where surface oxidation occurs even in the presence of <1 ppb O2. (48) On the other hand, a remarkable oxidation resistance of the second base metal was also reported. Baiker et al. performed an in situ XAFS characterization of a PdBi/Al2O3 catalyst during liquid-phase oxidation of alcohol under 1 atm O2. (187) They showed that Bi retained the zerovalent state until the substrate alcohol was consumed, which was followed by aerobic oxidation of Bi(0) to Bi3+. This indicates that oxygen is used only for consuming the eliminated hydrogen from alcohol, not for surface oxidation during the presence of alcohol as a hydrogen donor. Note that for this catalyst, Bi is loaded on the surface of Pd but is not present in the bulk, therefore the Bi-LIII edge XAFS data provides information about the surface. Furthermore, an XPS analysis of a Pd3Pb/SiO2 catalyst for amine oxidation revealed that Pb in the Pd3Pb phase nearly retained the metallic state with a trace amount of PbO even after contact with air. (203) This catalyst was pretreated under H2 at 400 C, followed by immediate transportation (in air) into the spectrometer. Moreover, for the RhSb/SiO2 catalyst for alkene isomerization, TEM observations revealed that amorphous overlayers could not be detected around the RhSb nanoparticles, (123) indicating that significant surface degradation of RhSb does not occur through TEM sample preparation using an organic solvent in air. Thus, the stability of the intermetallic phase depends on the particular bimetallic combination. The diversity in the stability of intermetallic phases can probably be attributed to intrinsic oxophilicity of the second metal. Strictly speaking, for example, the adsorption energy of an oxygen atom on an individual surface may be an indicator of the degree of oxophilicity. Alternatively, as a rough scale of oxophilicity, we propose using the oxidation potentials of the metals. Figure 24 shows an energy diagram of the oxidation potentials of various metals to the corresponding divalent or trivalent cations. (44) This is also a quantitative representation of the ionization tendency. In this diagram, the base metals showing high oxophilicity (Ti, Zn, and Ga, red lines) possess low reduction potentials, whereas other base metals that exhibit oxidation tolerance (Bi, Sb, Pb, blue lines) have moderate potentials. Because standard oxidation potentials are measured in aqueous solutions, (44) the reaction phase and situation may differ largely from those for heterogeneous systems. Therefore, this representation is somewhat lacking in accuracy; however, we can apply this trend as an approximate gauge reflecting the intrinsic oxidizability of the metals.Figure 24 Figure 24. Energy diagram of standard oxidation potentials of various metals. For each metal, the potential for oxidation to the divalent (Cu, Ni, Pb, Pd, Pt, Sn, Ti, and Zn) or trivalent (Bi, Ga, and Rh) cation was adopted. For antimony, the potential refers to the following reaction; SbO+ + 2H+ + 3e = Sb(s) + H2O(l).In addition to the oxidation tolerance, we should consider whether the surface of as prepared intermetallic compounds retains the bulk-terminated structure. In general, for solid-solution alloys (309, 310) and Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds, (311) the composition ratio of the two metals often differs between surface and subsurface regions due to segregation. However, this is not always the case with intermetallic compounds. For example, an extensive surface characterization of annealed Pt3Ti(111) and (100) single crystal surfaces using AES, XPS, and LEED revealed that these surfaces have ordered structures expected from truncation of the bulk crystal. (312, 313) A more clear evidence of bulk-truncated termination can be observed in the STM images of PdGa(111) surfaces as already shown in Figure 15. Note that these results suggest that no adsorbate-induced surface reconstruction occurs, which is often observed for monometallic or alloy surfaces. The surface stability of the powdered PdGa catalyst was also investigated by FT-IR with CO adsorption and in situ XPS and prompt gamma activation analysis (PGAA) analyses during acetylene semihydrogenation. (314) No segregation of Pd and dissolution of C and/or H atoms into the bulk was observed, demonstrating the surface stability of PdGa. Probably, the robustness of the intermetallic compounds relies on the thermodynamic stability. Table 2 summarizes the formation enthalpies (ΔHf) of various intermetallic compounds covered in this review. (315-332) Pt3Ti (94 kJ mol1) and PdGa (79 kJ mol1) showed highly negative ΔHf values, indicating that deviation from the ordered structure is thermodynamically unfavorable, and therefore, the ordered structure is thermodynamically stable. Other intermetallic compounds showed moderately to significantly negative ΔHf values (typically 30  100 kJ mol1), suggesting high stability. Conversely, Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds (10.0  16.0 kJ mol1) and solid-solution alloys (typically 0 kJ mol1) have much less negative ΔHf values. The deviation in ΔHf between PtCo and Pt0.5Co0.5 corresponds to the heat of ordering (ΔH0) as mentioned in section 4.4. Thus, the structural stability of the intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys can be understood in terms of formation enthalpy. However, for a few layer thick surface alloys, surface reconstruction somewhat occurs even though the bulk intermetallic compound is highly stables. Figure 25 shows the standard row structure of 4-layer thick PdZn surface alloy on Pd(111) and the reconstructed zigzag structure. (333) According to TPD, polarization-modulation infrared reflection-absorption spectroscopy (PM-IRAS), and DFT studies, Weilach et al. proposed that CO adsorption induced surface reconstruction to the zigzag structure. The DFT calculation suggested that (1) the zigzag structure with CO adsorbed is energetically favored to the row structure and that (2) the former favors on-top CO adsorption, while the latter favors bridge adsorption. The PM-IRAS study showed the absence of the stable bridge adsorption, supporting the zigzag structure. Although the bulk PdZn or thicker layer was not considered in this study, the obtained result indicates the possibility of adsorbate-induced surface reconstruction for small intermetallic nanoparticles. Therefore, careful discussion based on spectroscopic and theoretical approaches is necessary to develop an atomic-level understanding of the catalysis of supported intermetallic compounds.Figure 25 Figure 25. PdZn surface alloy on Pd(111) with bulk terminated row structure and reconstructed zigzag structure. Pd atoms are displayed in cyan, and Zn atoms are displayed in blue. Reprinted with permission from ref 333. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.Table 2. Formation Enthalpy of Various Intermetallic Compounds and Solid-Solution Alloys MmNn ΔHf (kJ mol1) ref MmNn ΔHf (kJ mol1) ref Pd-based Pt-based PdGa 79.4 325 Pt3Zr 112.9 316 PdZn 73.9 317 Pt3Ti 94.0 322 Pd3Ti 65.0 326 PtSn 74.0 324 PdIn 61.4 327 PtZn 65.0 317 PdSn 61.1 330 PtGa 55.6 328 PdBi 57.5 332 Pt3Sn 55.3 324 Pd3Pb 35.6 323 PtSb 47.1 328 Pd13Pb9 32.9 323 Pt3In 41.5 327 Rh-based Kurnakov-type RhGa 73.2 328 PtCu 16.0 329 RhTi 71.5 326 Pt3Fe 15.9 316 RhSb 32.2 328 PtCo 14.0 320 RhIn 28.0 327 PtCu3 11.0 329 Pt3Co 10.0 320 Ni-based NiGa 46.5 328 solid-solution NiSi 42.4 331 Pt0.5Co0.5 9.8 320 Ni5Ga3 37.8 328 Pt0.5Pd0.5 3.8 315 Ni3Sn2 31.8 319 Pd0.5Ni0.5 0.5 321 Ni3Sn 26.3 319 Pd0.5Co0.5 0 320 Ni3Ga 25.3 328 Ni0.5Co0.5 0 320
5.2 Contribution of Individual Crystal Planes
With the development of structure-dependent catalysis on specific surfaces of intermetallic compounds, one should consider the contribution of the individual crystal planes that are actually exposed on the overall catalytic performance. For example, for alkene isomerization over RhSb/SiO2, a DFT-based Wulff construction suggested that the (211), (020), and (013) planes dominate the surface. (123) However, the major (211) plane has a low surface energy, thereby displaying highly positive adsorption energies for alkene. This unfavorable adsorption probably minimizes its contribution to the overall catalytic reaction rate. Therefore, the overall reaction rate and selectivity should depend on the properties of the (020) and (013) planes. However, it is desirable to provide experimental supports for such a discussion, which in most cases can be obtained using well-defined single crystals with surface science techniques. As an alternative approach, the use of shape-controlled nanoparticles may be available. Shape-controlled nanoparticles have specific surface truncations; for example, the surface of Pt nanoparticles with a cubic or tetrahedral structure is terminated exclusively by (100) and (111) facets, respectively. (334) Such nanoparticles have been used as well-defined single crystal surfaces to overcome a material gap. (334) Although shape-controlled synthesis of monometallic nanoparticles has been established, (335) that of intermetallic nanoparticles is highly challenging and in an early phase of development. (247) The difficulty lies in the simultaneous reduction of two metal precursors of which reduction potentials and rates are very different. Successive alloying of monometallic nanoparticles to intermetallic analogues with the polyol synthesis method (43) is also applicable to this goal. This method allows low-temperature synthesis of intermetallic nanoparticles without any sintering or aggregation. Using shape-controlled monometallic nanoparticles as the starting materials for the polyol synthesis might be a possible approach to the synthesis of shape-controlled intermetallic nanoparticles.
5.3 Challenge to Enantioselective Conversions
The steric effects imposed by the specific structure of intermetallic compounds allows stereoselective and chemoselective conversions as shown in section 4.3. Applying such types of specific surface structures will enable the development of similarly sophisticated catalysis, such as regioselective conversions. How about enantioselective conversions? To develop a catalytically active site allowing enantioselective conversion, one must construct reaction environments capable of chiral recognition at an atomic level as observed for metal complexes. To this day, a number of heterogeneous catalysts for enantioselective conversion have been reported. However, they employed certain organic molecules such as cinchona alkaloids (336, 337) or β-ketoesters (336) as chiral sources. In this context, it is a long-standing goal to achieve enantioselective conversion using an all-inorganic chiral catalyst. Although some inorganic materials such as quartz, (338) ITQ-37 zeolite, (338) and chiral metalorganic frameworks (339) have been known to possess chirality, their chiral units are on the order of several nanometers, which is too large to recognize the chirality of small molecules. Recently, Gellman et al. reported enantioselective autocatalytic decomposition of tartaric acids over chiral Cu(643)R(S) and analogous surfaces. (340) In this case, insufficient chiral recognition at the kink sites of the monometallic chiral surface (Figure 26) was amplified by autocatalysis to achieve high enantioselectivity. To provide a sufficient chiral recognition capability by inorganic materials, a far more specific and ordered reaction environment is needed. One promising candidate is an intermetallic compound belonging to a chiral space group, such as PdGa, PtGa, and RhSn (P213 space group). Their surfaces (e.g., PdGa(111)) display enantiomorphic atomic arrangements of catalytically active metals, as shown in Figure 15. PdGa has two types of enantiomeric crystal forms named PdGa:A and PdGa:B. The complementary enantiomer of the PdGa:A(111) surface is the PdGa:B(111) surface. (341) The chiral arrangement of each surface is designated by the cyan and red triangles, which indicate the 3-fold Pd and Ga sites in the subsurface, respectively. Very recently, Widmer et al. reported highly enantioselective adsorption of a prochiral molecule, 9-ethynylphenanthrene (9-EP), on these all-inorganic chiral surfaces. (341) The adsorption of 9-EP on the PdGa:A(111) and B(111) surface at room temperature forms chiral (R) and (S) adsorption complexes. For adsorption on PdGa:A(111), the (R) surface enantiomer dominates the adsorption configuration. Conversely, the excess of the (S) configuration is observed for PdGa:B(111). The statistical analysis for R and S configuration revealed an enantiomeric excess of 94% and 98% on PdGa:A(111) and PdGa:B(111), respectively. (341) Thus, the chiral intermetallic surface is indeed capable of chiral recognition. Although achieving enantioselective catalytic conversion such as hydrogenation remains a highly challenging task, it may be achieved in the near future.
Figure 26 Figure 26. Enantiomorphic structures of the chiral Cu(643)R&S surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 340. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society. 6 Concluding Remarks In this review, we have summarized the fundamental concepts related to intermetallic compounds for catalyst design and their applicability to a variety of chemical conversions, including hydrogenation, oxidation, reforming, and electrocatalysis. The intermetallic catalysts typically exhibit catalytic performances superior to those of monometallic catalysts or enables highly difficult molecular transformations that cannot be achieved by conventional metal catalysts. By surveying the catalytic performances and the key roles of the active intermetallic phases, we can identify several effects, such as electronic, geometric, steric, and ordering effects, as the fundamental functions that govern catalysis. In particular, steric and ordering effects are observed only for intermetallic compounds and not for disordered alloys, because these effects rely on the orderedness and specific structures of the intermetallic phases. In terms of electronic effects, we showed that electronic structures such as the d band center or electron density can be controlled broadly by changing the second metal. An appropriate choice of the bimetallic combination and composition enables good control of the catalytic activity and selectivity. However, the stability of surface structures should also be considered, particularly for combinations containing a highly oxidizable metal. Based on the aforementioned overview, we summarize the advantages of intermetallic compounds for inorganic catalyst materials as follows: Control of the electronic structure Specific and ordered structure at an atomic level Homogeneity of the geometric and electronic structures These factors are necessary to produce a well-designed reaction environment. Appropriate combination of these factors However, we note that conventional inorganic materials for heterogeneous catalytic systems poorly satisfy these requirements. Moreover, the ordered structures of intermetallic compounds are suitable to construct theoretical model structures for computational approaches. Thus, intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials for developing well-structured catalysts and they entail various novel concepts in relation to fundamental catalytic chemistry. Further investigations to obtain more efficient catalysts and deeper understanding will establish new strategies for designing bimetallic catalysts and begin the next stage of catalytic chemistry.
Author Information Corresponding Authors Shinya Furukawa - Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology 2-12-1-E1-10, Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 152-8550;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-2621-6139;  Email: furukawa.s.af@m.titech.ac.jp Takayuki Komatsu - Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology 2-12-1-E1-10, Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 152-8550;  Email: komatsu.t.ad@m.titech.ac.jp Notes The authors declare no competing financial interest.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 