Priority Communication
Sn-containing hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) for catalytic dehydrogenation of propane: An efficient strategy to enhance stability
Highlights
•
Sn-containing HMS exhibits ∼40% propane conversion and good stability up to 170 h.
•
The enhanced stability is due to strong interaction between Sn species and HMS.
•
The reaction route of propane dehydrogenation over Sn-HMS has been proposed.
Abstract
Sn-containing hexagonal mesoporous silica (Sn-HMS) has been synthesized and evaluated for catalytic dehydrogenation of propane. XRD, HRTEM and XPS characterizations jointly evidence that, the Sn species are probably embedded into the lattice of HMS bulk at a relatively low Sn loading amount. Compared with Sn/SiO2 samples prepared by conventional impregnation method, Sn-HMS catalyst exhibits inspiringly higher propane conversion (∼40%) and better dehydrogenation stability up to 170 h, even after three oxidative regenerations. The improved stability of Sn-HMS catalyst is probably resulted from the inhibition of Sn reduction to low-melting-point metallic Sn species due to a strong
bond, as well as the stabilization of the Sn species induced by the mesoporous structure of HMS substrate. Further, the reaction route of propane dehydrogenation over Sn-HMS catalyst has been proposed.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (30KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Catalytic dehydrogenation of abundant alkanes, as an effective route to produce high-valued light alkenes, has attracted great attention recently. Due to the detrimental effect of Cr2O3-based catalyst and high cost of Pt-based catalyst, the exploration of a novel non-toxic dehydrogenation catalyst with low cost is still one of the urgent issues. Since 1960s, an abundance of research has been focused on the promoting effects of Sn in Pt-based catalyst. It is widely accepted that, the improved selectivity to olefin and good stability of PtSn catalyst
[1]
,
[2]
,
[3]
,
[4]
, are mainly attributed to the geometric
[5]
,
[6]
,
[7]
and electronic
[8]
,
[9]
,
[10]
effects of the introduced Sn.
In people’s traditional understanding, Sn alone is inactive in dehydrogenation reaction
[11]
,
[12]
. Inspiringly, Sn-based catalyst has been proved to be efficient for propane dehydrogenation in our recent work
[13]
. The dehydrogenation performance of Sn-based catalyst is even comparable to that of the industrially relevant Cr and Pt-based catalysts. That is, Sn alone can act as the active component for dehydrogenation, instead of only a promoter for Pt-based catalyst. However, the catalyst suffers irreversible deactivation during a 70 h run, which is primarily attributed to the migration and partial removal of low-melting-point (around 503 K) Sn species. To improve the catalyst stability, an appropriate support with high surface area should be chosen to anchoring and incorporating the Sn species more stably. Herein, the facilely synthesized
[14]
hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) has been selected, given its appropriate physical and chemical properties. The thick walls (2.0–3.0 nm)
[15]
,
[16]
and short channel length
[17]
of HMS guarantee good thermal stability up to 1073 K
[18]
and fast diffusion of products, respectively. Moreover, its weak acidity
[19]
facilitates prompt desorption of olefins, thereby reducing the occurrence of undesired secondary reactions.
In this work, a series of Sn-containing HMS samples with SnO2 content of 2, 5 and 10 wt%, has been synthesized and reduced in H2 flow prior to reaction (experimental details are given in the
Supporting Information
). Small-angle XRD patterns in
Fig. 1
a demonstrate that, the characteristic peak of (1 0 0) plane of HMS-type materials
[15]
,
[20]
at around 2θ of 2–3° is detected over almost all these samples, except for 10Sn-HMS. Thereby, it is speculated that, as for 10Sn-HMS, the partial collapse of HMS ordered structure possibly occurs, which is also evidenced by the SEM images in
Fig. S1
. Moreover, wide-angle XRD pattern of 10Sn-HMS (see
Fig. S2
) displays distinct diffraction peaks corresponding to crystalline SnO2. On the contrary, no SnO2 diffraction peak is observed in the pattern of 5Sn-HMS. This result indicates that, Sn species are highly dispersed over the HMS substrate or even embedded into the lattice of HMS bulk at low Sn contents, instead of aggregating together to form big crystals.
Download: Download high-res image (235KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 1. (a) Small-angle XRD patterns of Sn-containing HMS catalysts; (b) FT-IR spectra of Sn-containing HMS catalysts.
When Sn species are introduced into HMS substrate, both the BET surface area and the pore volume decrease to some extent, especially for the 10Sn-HMS sample (see
Table 1
). Meanwhile, the pore diameter expands progressively upon the incorporation of Sn atoms, which is probably caused by a larger size of Sn4+ (0.055 nm) than Si4+ (0.026 nm)
[21]
, while the wall thickness data are comparable among all these samples in spite of different Sn contents, being consistent with the results reported by Abdel-Fattah and Pinnavaia
[22]
. Notably, all these samples possess thicker framework walls than the mesoporous silica MCM-41 (about 1 nm)
[23]
, thereby guaranteeing a good thermal stability of the catalyst. Furthermore, the Sn-containing HMS samples exhibit even better thermal stability than the raw HMS material, as indicated by the TG-DTA profiles in
Figs. S3 and S4
.
Table 1. Structural and reaction characteristics of Sn-containing HMS catalysts.
Empty Cell
HMS 2Sn-HMS 5Sn-HMS 10Sn-HMS
Surface area, m2/g 1163 1065 960 799
Pore diameter, nm 2.92 3.03 3.11 3.3
Pore volume, cm3/g 0.79 0.73 0.71 0.53
d100, nm 4.12 4.2 4.41 4.4
a0
a
, nm 4.76 4.85 5.09 5.08
Wd
b
, nm 1.84 1.82 1.98 1.78
Sn density, Sn atom/nm2 – 0.08 0.21 0.5
TOF × 103, mole propene/(mole of added Sn⋅s) – 3.38 2.70 1.25
a
a0 is the unit cell parameter calculated from XRD distance by a0 = 2d100/
.
b
Wd is the wall thickness calculated by Wd = a0 – Pore diameter.
FT-IR characterization has also been conducted over Sn-HMS samples (see
Fig. 1
b). Infrared bands around 810 and 1090 cm−1, respectively corresponding to the symmetric and anti-symmetric vibration modes of tetrahedral SiO4 structure unit
[18]
, can be detected over all these samples. A peak assigned to the SiOSi vibrational mode
[24]
can also be observed at 475 cm−1. In addition, the intensity of all IR bands decreases with increasing Sn content, indicating the partial destruction of the ordered mesoporous structure at higher Sn loadings. Moreover, an additional band around 960 cm−1 is detected. In the literature, the understanding of this IR band is controversial. Some researchers
[25]
,
[26]
,
[27]
,
[28]
believed that, the presence of the infrared band at 950–970 cm−1 is a direct evidence for the isomorphous substitution. While the others
[29]
,
[30]
held different opinions, they attributed the band to SiO stretching vibration in the SiOR group instead of SnOM. To further probe into the existing state of Sn species in HMS, the HRTEM and EDS elemental mapping were taken (see
Fig. 2
). A typical wormhole structure of HMS substrate is clearly observed for 5Sn-HMS sample, and no obviously aggregated particles of Sn species are detected. The corresponding EDS mapping verifies that, the Sn species incorporated into HMS are uniformly dispersed over the substrate and suffer from negligible agglomeration.
Download: Download high-res image (924KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 2. (a-b) HRTEM images of 5Sn-HMS catalyst and (c–d) the corresponding EDS mapping for image (b).
In the O 1s XPS spectra of 5Sn-HMS (see
Fig. S5
), only one peak located at the binding energy of 532.7 eV, which is reported to be characteristic of SiO2 in transition-metal-incorporated mesoporous silica
[31]
, is observed, while for the lattice oxygen of SnO2, the characterization peak of O 1s is primarily around 530–531 eV
[32]
,
[33]
. These facts further evidence that, the Sn species are probably embedded into the framework of HMS substrate.
Fig. 3
shows the initial dehydrogenation performance over the different Sn-HMS samples. It can be clearly seen that, the pure-silica HMS delivers an extremely low activity toward propane dehydrogenation. Notably, this propane conversion level is close to that achieved with no catalyst being loaded, indicating that the low activity is primarily attributed to homogeneous reactions. When Sn species are introduced, the conversion of propane increases continuously to 40% with Sn content up to 5 wt%. Afterward, the propane conversion demonstrates a slight decreasing trend with increasing Sn content to 10 wt%, probably attributed to the partial collapse of the ordered HMS mesoporous structure and the appearance of aggregated SnO2 crystals. The selectivity to propene, however, exhibits a monotonically increasing trend with the content of Sn. In general, a maximum propene yield of 36% is obtained over 5Sn-HMS catalyst, which is significantly higher than that obtained over the conventional Sn/SiO2 catalyst even with a smaller space velocity. It is also worth noting that, the turnover frequencies (TOF) of propene (see
Table 1
) decrease with the increase of Sn content, indicating that the utilization efficiency of Sn atoms also decreases with the increasing Sn loading.
Download: Download high-res image (139KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Dehydrogenation performance of Sn-HMS catalysts (reaction temperature of 600 °C, 1.5 g catalyst loading, and 167 h−1 gas space velocity).
A long-term run over 5Sn-HMS sample for propane dehydrogenation was further carried out to probe into the stability of Sn-containing HMS catalyst. Inspiringly, both the propane conversion (around 40%) and the selectivity to propene (up to 90%) remain almost unchanged for 155 h (see
Fig. 4
), which is much longer than the durability of the conventional Sn/SiO2 catalyst (about 70 h). With the prolonged reaction time over 155 h, the propane conversion presents a slight decreasing trend. Elemental analysis results obtained from XRF indicate that, the Sn content of the Sn-containing HMS catalyst decreases from 3.58 wt% to 3.54 wt% during the 166 h run, indicative of a 1.1 wt% loss of Sn species. This value is obviously lower than the Sn loss of 6.0 wt% over the spent Sn/SiO2 catalyst reacted for 70 h. Based on the above results, it can be concluded that, the incorporation of Sn into the mesoporous structure of HMS effectively realizes the immobilization of Sn species and inhibits the Sn loss from the catalyst, thereby resulting in a greatly reduced deactivation rate and prolonged regeneration period.
Download: Download high-res image (215KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Dehydrogenation performance of 5 Sn-HMS catalyst during different reaction-regeneration cycles (reaction temperature of 600 °C, 1.5 g catalyst loading, and 167 h−1 gas space velocity).
Coke deposition may be the main reason for the catalyst deactivation after 155 h reaction. To examine the graphitization degree of deposited coke, Raman spectrum of the spent 5Sn-HMS catalyst has been taken (see
Fig. S6
). The two peaks at 1339 and 1592, attributed to CH bending and CC stretching in aromatic and alkyl hydrocarbon
[34]
,
[35]
, have been deconvoluted into four peaks, and the integrated intensity ratio of D band to G band is an important index to determine the degree of graphitization
[36]
. Herein, the ID/IG intensity ratio equals to 2.1, lower than 2.4 obtained over the conventional Sn/SiO2 catalyst, indicating that the deactivated catalyst contains a high proportion of disordered defective carbon. Subsequently, the deactivated catalyst has been regenerated by air combustion and tested for three reaction-regeneration cycles (see
Fig. 4
). The propane conversion maintains stable for more than 150 h reaction, and there is no obvious decreasing trend of the conversion for each cycle, fully demonstrating the excellent dehydrogenation performance and stability of the Sn-containing HMS catalyst.
XPS spectra in
Fig. S7
demonstrate that, the valence state of Sn species on catalyst surface experiences almost no change after a long-term reaction, indicating that the Sn species are hardly reduced after anchoring. It is well known that, the melting point of Sn oxides is up to 1273 K, which is much higher than that of the metallic species. Therefore, the improved stability of Sn-HMS sample over the conventional Sn/SiO2 catalyst is probably attributed to the inhibited reduction of Sn species and the strengthened anchoring of Sn species in HMS framework.
Furthermore, a simple reaction cycle of propane dehydrogenation over Sn-HMS has been proposed as
Scheme 1
. Lewis acid sites provided by HMS (see
Fig. S8
) probably play an important role in adsorbing and partially activating propane molecules. According to
Fig. S9
, an induction period is required when Sn-HMS catalyst is not reduced prior to reaction; therefore, we speculate that Sn species with oxygen vacancies adjacent to the Lewis acid sites generated during the reduction or induction period, are active to react with the adsorbed propane, by forming intermediate species with Sn bonded to the isopropyl group and oxygen bonded to the left hydrogen of the propane molecule. Ultimately, propene is generated through β-hydrogen cleavage of the adsorbed species, and hydrogen is released from catalyst surface to recover the active sites and complete the whole reaction cycle.
Download: Download high-res image (143KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Scheme 1. Reaction cycle of propane dehydrogenation over Sn-HMS catalyst.
In summary, a novel Sn-containing HMS catalyst has been prepared to stabilize the Sn species, thereby overcoming the shortcoming of the poor dehydrogenation stability encountered with the conventional Sn-based catalyst. The Sn-containing HMS catalyst exhibits highly active and stable catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation, with propene yield up to 34% for 150 h, even after several reaction-regeneration cycles. This work not only provides a potential dehydrogenation catalyst for industrial application, but also opens up a new avenue for enhancing the stability of supported catalyst.
Acknowledgments
This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No.
21606257
, No. U1362201 and No. U1462205), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No.
2015M582161
) and Shandong Postdoctoral Funded Project (No. 201502029).
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Download: Download Word document (4MB)
Supplementary data 1.