I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Electronic structure of the LaPt(111) surface alloy Abstract The electronic and structural properties of the LaPt(111) surface alloy have been studied by angle-resolved photoemission, core-level spectroscopy and photoelectron diffraction. For low lanthanum coverages [<0.5 monolayers (ML)] annealing of as-deposited films at 900 K produces no structural change in the surface, as witnessed by low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) and core-level spectroscopy. The k dispersion for such surfaces is very similar to the Pt(111) surface band structure. Annealing of surfaces with higher lanthanum coverages (>1 ML) produces a surface alloy which displays a (2×2) LEED pattern. The k band structure for this alloy is changed dramatically compared with that of Pt(111). Photoelectron diffraction shows that lanthanum is situated in sites with six-fold rotational symmetry in the surface alloy. For the platinum sites our data are inconclusive, but in accordance with a structural model proposed for the CePt(111) surface alloy based on the layered Pt5Ce compound. We also present evidence for a surface-related state on Pt(111) that has not previously been discussed.
1. Introduction
The study of the LaPt(111) surface alloy is motivated from three different starting points. Our interest in this system has its origin in catalytic model systems. It has been shown that the LaPt(111) surface alloy has chemical properties, exemplified by CO desorption, vastly different from those of both Pt(111) and lanthanum overlayers on Pt(111) [1] . Furthermore, it was found that the change in the COmetal bond strength could not be explained by simple theory relating this to changes in the energy position of the d-band center [2] . A different starting point is the comparison with the CePt(111) surface alloy, which is thought to be a heavy fermion system [3] ,[4] . These two surface alloys are found to have very similar electronic [3] ,[4] and geometric [5] ,[6] structures. In a comprehensive scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) study, Baddeley et al. concluded that the structure of the cerium alloy is similar to bulk Pt5Ce, an ABAB layered compound consisting of platinum Kagom nets and Pt2Ce layers [7] . Third, the study of intermetallic interactions and surface alloy formation is in itself an interesting topic [8] ,[9] .
In what follows we present angular-resolved photoemission, mapping out the k dispersion of the Pt(111) and LaPt(111) surfaces. We also present core-level spectroscopy and photoelectron diffraction data. It is found that below a certain lanthanum coverage, previously estimated to be 0.5 monolayers (ML) [1] , no alloy formation takes place upon annealing. The surface geometry remains unchanged. When a surface alloy is formed, its electronic structure is considerably different from that of Pt(111). Our diffraction data are not conclusive, but consistent with the structural model proposed for CePt(111) [7] .
2. Experimental
The experiments reported in this paper were performed at beamline SA73 of the SuperACO storage ring at LURE in Orsay, France. This beamline is equipped with a plane grating monochromator and an Omicron EA 125 five-channeltron hemispherical electron analyzer. The widths of the entrance and exit slits of the monochromator may be varied continuously. This allows for measurements with constant resolution as the photon energy is varied. For all the photoelectron spectra presented here we have used a monochromator resolution of 75 meV. Together with an analyzer pass energy of 12 eV, this gives a total resolution of approximately 100 meV. In the photoelectron diffraction measurements a total resolution of approximately 140 meV was used.
The Pt(111) crystal was cleaned by repeated cycles of 600 eV argon-ion sputtering and annealing in vacuum at 900 K. The cleanliness of the sample was verified by Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), photoemission of the valence band and by a sharp low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) pattern. We have also verified by core-level photoemission in our home laboratory that this procedure leads to a clean surface. Lanthanum was evaporated from a water-cooled source consisting of a resistively heated tungsten basket, which was thoroughly outgassed prior to use. After lanthanum deposition, the cleanliness was again checked by Auger and valence-band photoemission.
The lanthanum evaporation rate was determined by core-level intensity measurements by X-ray photoemission (XPS) in the home laboratory, where a near-constant photon flux could be obtained. The rate was found be relatively stable and therefore reproducible. The effective coverages were determined by measurements on a cold substrate where the influence of intermixing at the surface is known to be small. Obviously, upon annealing and formation of surface alloys, the coverage of lanthanum in the outermost layer is much lower, depending on the structure of the surface alloy, than the effective coverage before annealing. It was observed that a (1×1) LEED pattern occurred after annealing to 900 K for coverages less than or about equal to 0.5 ML, whereas a (2×2) LEED pattern could be observed after annealing for coverages above about 0.6 ML. Numerous spectra from thermal desorption of CO from samples of various lanthanum coverages were also used to confirm the reproducibility of the evaporation rate. In addition, valence-band photoemission using ultraviolet photoemission (UPS) showed a distinct change when the (2×2) overlayer structure was formed.
For the present measurements using synchrotron radiation, intensity measurements are more uncertain, and the coverage was estimated by monitoring the LEED pattern after annealing. The transition between the (1×1) and (2×2) LEED patterns was assumed to occur near an effective coverage of 0.5 ML, as previously found by repeated measurements in the home laboratory. Since the evaporation source was found to be relatively stable, we estimate that the uncertainty in the coverage estimates is less than 20%.
3. Results and discussion
When a lanthanum-covered Pt(111) surface is annealed at 900 K, the resulting structure depends on the lanthanum coverage prior to annealing. For low coverages LEED shows a (1×1) pattern after annealing. At high coverages a (2×2) LEED pattern is observed. The coverage below which the surface remains (1×1) after annealing has previously been estimated to be 0.5 ML [1] . It was argued that below this coverage no alloy formation takes place. Immediately above this coverage annealing results in a LEED pattern similar to that found when annealing 0.5 ML Ce/Pt(111) at 1000 K [7] . In what follows, we shall focus on the (2×2) structure. Unless otherwise stated, the LaPt(111) surface alloy refers to this structure.
The recent work of Baddeley et al.
[7] on the CePt(111) system showed the occurrence of relatively complicated structures. Even though the work of Garnier et al.
[3] showed that there are clear structural differences between the La and CePt(111) systems, some structural similarities may be expected. A layered structure as observed by Baddeley et al.
[7] in CePt(111) may very well also be present in the case of LaPt(111); it seems clear that the surface alloy has properties that are quite different from intermetallic compounds like for example LaPt2, which are known to be relatively reactive to contamination in the vacuum chamber. In the present experiment we were not set up to do precise structure determinations, but found that a lanthanum coverage of 1 ML before annealing resulted in a sharp (2×2) LEED pattern upon annealing to 900 K. On the other hand, a coverage of about 0.5 ML before annealing resulted in a relatively sharp (1×1) LEED pattern. We have not observed distinct variations in measurements from different (2×2) alloys. However, based on the present experiments, we may not rule out the possibility that the structure of the interface alloy varies with the thickness of the initial lanthanum overlayer. In fact, for thick lanthanum overlayers, the formation of bulk alloys would be expected upon annealing to elevated temperatures.
3.1. Surface band structures
The upper panel of Fig. 1 shows band structures for Pt(111) and La/Pt(111) (1×1); i.e., for lanthanum coverage <0.5 ML. The polar and azimuth angles and the photon energy are varied such that the electron momentum component perpendicular to the surface k is fixed, while k is varied along high-symmetry directions of the first and second surface Brillouin zone (SBZ). A free electron final state has been assumed and the inner potential is set to 12 eV. Calculated platinum bulk bands projected on to the Pt(111) SBZ are shown as a gray shade in the background [10] . We first note that in the the bands are not completely symmetric about the M-point. This is probably caused by the asymmetry in intensity about the SBZ boundary; weak states, nearly invisible in the first SBZ, become intense in the second SBZ and vice versa.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. Upper panel: band structures for Pt(111) (open squares) and La/Pt(111) (1×1) (filled circles). The momentum component perpendicular to the surface (k) is fixed while the parallel component (k) is varied along high-symmetry directions in the first and second SBZ as indicated in the figure. The gray background represents a projection of the platinum bulk bands on to the Pt(111) SBZ [10] . For the La/Pt(111) (1×1) surface we have only traced the bands approximately half-way from the M to the Γ-point of the second SBZ. Lower panel: Band structure for the LaPt(111) (2×2) surface alloy. High-symmetry points are referenced to the Pt(111) SBZ. The gray background represents a projection of the platinum bulk bands on to the Pt(111) SBZ [10] . No spectra are recorded in the second Pt(111) SBZ. Shown between M and the Γ-point in the second zone is merely a mirror image of the bands between Γ and M.When comparing the Pt(111) band structure (open squares) with the work of Wei et al. [11] , we recognize most of the states within 3 eV of the Fermi level (EF) as states characterized by these authors as surface states or resonances. Wei et al. identify one true surface state for the Pt(111) surface. This state is found in the gap about 3 eV below EF around the K-point. We find that this state continues as a resonance between K and M, and that it mixes with a bulk state 4 eV below EF between K and Γ. Other states penetrating into bulk gaps are also found, but as long as they stay close to the gap borders we cannot conclude that they are true surface states, because of the ambiguity in comparing with theoretical results. Our results are thus not believed to disagree with Wei et al. [11] in their assignment of surface resonances above 3 eV. For higher binding energies, however, we observed a state not discussed by these authors that we believe is surface-related. This is the state with 68 eV binding energy found close to the border of the gap around Γ, only visible in the second SBZ. This state is partially quenched by oxygen saturation in the same manner as the above-lying states previously characterized as surface resonances [11] . Further evidence that this state is surface-related is provided by the lack of dispersion in the normal emission scan in the upper panel of Fig. 2 . Here k is fixed (k=0) while the photon energy (and thus k) is varied. We thus see the dispersion of the bulk bands that would be projected on to the Γ-point of the SBZ. Note that the state at 7 eV shows less dispersion than the states at 3, 1.5 and 0.5 eV, previously described as surface resonances [11] . The criteria for a surface-related state are thus met; sensitivity to adsorption (oxygen in this case) and lack of dispersion normal to the surface. In order to distinguish between a surface resonance and true surface state it is necessary to decide whether the state falls into a bulk band gap or not. As seen in the upper panel of Fig. 1 , this state does penetrate into such a gap, but stays close to the border. We therefore cannot be certain that this is a surface state, but conclude that it is surface-related.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Upper panel: dispersion of platinum bands in the direction normal to the surface. Lower panel: Dispersion of the LaPt(111) (2×2) bands in the direction normal to the surface. Spectra are recorded in normal emission, varying the photon energy from 24 to 63 eV.Depositing slightly less than 0.5 ML of lanthanum on the Pt(111) surface and annealing at 900 K produces the La/Pt(111) (1×1) surface whose band structure is shown by the solid circles in Fig. 1 (upper panel) . We see that most of the these bands show dispersion nearly identical to that of Pt(111). The clearest exceptions from this is the quenching of the surface state mentioned above and of the surface resonance 3 eV below EF around the Γ-point. Similar quenching is also seen for the state with 1 eV binding energy between M and K. We observe penetration of this state into a bulk gap, indicative of a true surface state. This is contrary to the observations of Wei et al., who only observed this state as far as the border of the bulk gap. The fact that some surface features are more strongly affected by lanthanum adsorption than others shows that these states are either only weakly coupled to bulk states or hybridize strongly with lanthanum states. Two lanthanum features are observed in the La/Pt(111) (1×1) band structure: one at 6 eV binding energy most clearly visible in the large bulk gap around Γ, and a weak state 7 eV below EF.Depositing a thicker lanthanum layer and annealing at 900 K one obtains an LaPt(111) surface alloy displaying a (2×2) LEED pattern. The band structure of this surface is shown in the lower panel of Fig. 1 . We have measured the band dispersion along the same lines in reciprocal space as for the Pt(111) surface. Similarly, the bulk band projections of platinum are shown in the background to facilitate the comparison of this band structure to that of Pt(111). Looking first at the similarities between the two band structures, we recognize the lanthanum-derived state about 6 eV below EF. This state is now only visible in the middle of the platinum bulk gap around Γ. We also recognize the platinum bulk state 4 eV below EF as virtually unchanged. The state 3 eV below EF around Γ, which was quenched by the lanthanum (1×1) overlayer, has reappeared. Other than that, the band structure of the LaPt(111) surface alloy is quite different from that of Pt(111). It is difficult to explain these differences in detail without performing calculations. We therefore only make two general remarks. First, there is somewhat less dispersion in the LaPt bands. This is to be expected for an alloy since hybridization between different elements is weaker than between atoms of the same element. Second, the bands of the surface alloy are concentrated closer to the Fermi level. This may also be seen in the normal emission k-scan in the lower panel of Fig. 2 , supporting previous observations that the d-band center moves closer to EF for the LaPt(111) surface alloy [1] .
3.2. Core levels
Fig. 3 shows typical La 5p spectra before and after annealing to 900 K. The solid lines show Doniachunji (DS) functions [12] broadened by Gaussian convolution. We see that good fits to the data are achieved using only one component (with spinorbit splitting). The lower spectrum is from a thin (i.e., <0.5 ML) lanthanum film prior to annealing. After annealing this film we obtain the middle spectrum , which is practically identical in shape and energy position to the spectrum before annealing. In this case, LEED shows a (1×1) pattern and the band structure is similar to that of Pt(111) (see Fig. 1, upper panel ), showing that a surface alloy has not been formed. In the case of thick lanthanum films (i.e., >1 ML lanthanum) where we do observe a (2×2) LEED pattern after annealing, we measure La 5p spectra such as the upper spectrum in Fig. 3 . We shall not discuss the slightly altered shape of this spectrum, but note that it is shifted 0.4 eV towards lower binding energy. There may be small variations in the 5p binding energy as a function of coverage for the as-deposited films, but when a (2×2) surface alloy is formed we always observe a shift of 0.40.5 eV.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. Photoelectron spectra of the La 5p core level. Bottom curve, lanthanum film prior to annealing; middle curve, annealed lanthanum film showing a (1×1) LEED pattern; top curve, annealed lanthanum film showing a (2×2) LEED pattern. The photon energy is 130 eV.Pt 4f7/2 spectra are shown in Fig. 4 . Although strictly speaking not a good approximation for platinum [13] , we have used a DS lineshape to fit the data. For the clean Pt(111) surface ( bottom curve ) we have used two components with fitting parameters identical to those used in a previous paper, increasing only the Gaussian broadening to account for the slightly lower resolution in the present experiment [14] . On the low (high) binding energy side is the Pt(111) surface component (platinum bulk component). The platinum surface core-level shift is found to be 0.4 eV, in agreement with earlier results [14] ,[15] . An excellent fit is obtained with the same surface/bulk intensity ratio as found previously [14] , further evidence that the surface is clean. After lanthanum deposition the surface component is reduced and a new component associated with platinum in contact with lanthanum appears. For the particular film measured in the middle spectrum of Fig. 4 the surface component has vanished completely. In this case the PtLa component appears at 0.8 eV higher binding energy than the surface component. This position is, however, uncertain. In other cases we have found this shift to be as low as 0.2 eV. It is possible that it depends on the lanthanum coverage. We also note that the relative intensity of the PtLa component is much lower than the surface component which it replaces, indicating that the PtLa component in reality is a broader feature, overlapping the platinum bulk component.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Photoelectron spectra of the Pt 4f7/2 core level. Bottom curve, clean Pt(111); middle curve, La/Pt(111), not annealed; top curve, annealed film resulting in an LaPt(111) (2×2) surface alloy. The photon energy is 130 eV.The top curve in Fig. 4 shows the Pt 4f7/2 spectrum for an annealed lanthanum film where a (2×2) surface alloy has formed. We see that the spectrum has been reduced to a single component [we have used the same linewidth, but a slightly reduced asymmetry factor compared with the lineshape of Pt(111)]. The energy position of this component is very close to that of bulk platinum, shifted only about 0.05 eV towards lower binding energy. A single Pt 4f7/2 component bears evidence of a uniform chemical environment for all the platinum atoms within the probing depth of the experiment. In other words, lanthanum is evenly distributed among the first few atomic layers of the crystal, typical for alloy formation. The structural model proposed by Baddeley et al. [7] for the CePt(111) surface alloy actually contains two different platinum sites, one in closer contact with cerium than the other. Assuming the same structure for the LaPt(111) surface alloy one might expect two separate components in the 4f7/2 spectrum. However, since the single component observed is shifted only 0.05 eV from the platinum bulk component, even the site with the highest lanthanum coordination is platinum-bulk-like. The other component would be even closer in energy to the platinum bulk and therefore indistinguishable from the first. There is no Pt 4f7/2 surface core-level shift observed for the surface alloy. In the work on the CePt(111) system, Baddeley et al. [7] concluded that significant CePt charge transfer occurs. The absence of a surface core-level shift for platinum in the LaPt surface alloy indicates that platinum atoms on the surface are strongly affected by their lanthanum neighbors, and does not necessarily imply that there are no platinum atoms at the surface of the alloy.The Pt 4f7/2 spectrum also remains unchanged upon annealing if the resulting surface exhibits a (1×1) LEED pattern (i.e., in the case of a thin lanthanum layer). This shows that the structure of the surface is unaffected by annealing in these cases. The lanthanum stays on the surface. This happens if the amount of lanthanum deposited is below a critical coverage. The critical coverage has previously been estimated to be approximately half a monolayer [1] . Above this coverage alloying takes place upon annealing. The surface free energy of lanthanum is considerable smaller than that for platinum. Thus small amounts of lanthanum have a tendency to stay on top of the platinum substrate. We speculate, however, that for larger amounts of lanthanum it may be energetically favorable for the LaPt system to form a stable interface alloy. This may then explain the onset of the (2×2) LEED structure for a certain lanthanum coverage, as observed.
3.3. Photoelectron diffraction
Variations in the Pt 4f7/2 and La 5p intensities as the azimuth angle is scanned are displayed in Fig. 5 . The azimuth angle is measured with respect to the [110] direction of the platinum crystal. The polar angle is kept at 35 with respect to the surface normal, the direction of the platinum closed-packed rows (the angle between the [111] and [110] axes). This is done in order to maximize the blocking of photoelectrons, optimizing the contrast between blocking and non-blocking azimuthal directions. It is not known whether this angle is optimal also for the LaPt(111) surface alloy, but the choice of polar angle has no effect on the observed symmetry, only the contrast. For the La 5p level we observe a clear periodic variation in the intensity. A good fit to the data is achieved with a simple cosine function with a period of 60 (solid line), showing that the lanthanum atoms are in sites with a six-fold rotational symmetry. This is in agreement with the Pt5Ce structural model proposed by Baddeley et al.
[7] . The Pt 4f7/2 diffraction data are more difficult to interpret. In the above mentioned model there are two different platinum sites, with two-fold and three-fold rotational symmetry, respectively. The solid line through the data is a linear combination of two cosines with period 180 and 120. It is not clear whether the deviation from the fitting function is noise or fine structure. We are therefore unable to conclude on the site symmetry of platinum, but note that our data do not contradict (or support) the Pt5Ce model. At these kinetic energies we may expect to be able to identify symmetry, but a quantitative analysis would require a multiple-scattering calculation.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Photoelectron yield as a function of azimuth angle for the La 5p and Pt 4f7/2 core levels. The solid lines are fits to the data, see the text. The polar angle is fixed at 35. The photon energy is 130 eV.
4. Conclusions
The LaPt(111) surface alloy has been investigated by angle-resolved photoemission and compared with Pt(111). We have found the band structure of the surface alloy to differ considerably from that of Pt(111). In the Pt(111) band structure we find evidence for a surface-related state not previously discussed. For low lanthanum coverages (<0.5 ML) no alloy formation takes place upon annealing. The lanthanum stays on the surface, as evidenced by core-level spectroscopy. A simple photoelectron diffraction azimuthal scan has revealed the lanthanum atoms of the surface alloy to be in sites with six-fold rotational symmetry, in agreement with a previously proposed structural model for the CePt(111) surface alloy. The detailed structure of the LaPt(111) surface alloy still remains to be determined.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 