3206
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
41. D. Ma, Y. Shu, X. Bao, Y. Xu, J. Catal. 2000, 189, 314.
42. Y.-H. Kim, R. W. Borry III, E. Iglesia, Microporous Mesoporous
Mater. 2000, 35–36, 495.
43. W. Ding, S. Li, G. D. Meitzner, E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B
2001, 105, 506.
44. D. Wang, J. H. Lunsford, M. P. Rosynek, J. Catal. 1997, 169,
347.
45. C. Bouchy,
I. Schmidt,
J. R. Anderson,
C. J. H. Jacobsen,
E. G. Derouane, S. B. Derouane-Abd Hamid, J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chemical 2000, 163, 283.
46. L. Chen, L. Lin, Z. Xu, T. Zhang, Q. Xin, P. Ying, G. Li, C. Li,
J. Catal. 1996, 161, 107.
47. Y. Schuurman, C. Mirodatos, Appl. Catal. A: General 1997,
151, 305.
48. P. L. Tan, K. W. Wong, C. T. Au, S. Y. Lai, Appl. Catal. A:
General 2003, 253, 305.
49. R. Ohnishi, S. Liu, Q. Dong, L. Wang, M. Ichikawa, J. Catal.
1999, 182, 92.
50. R. Kojima, S. Kikuchi, M. Ichikawa, Chem. Lett. 2004, 33, 1166.
51. Y. Shu, H. Ma, R. Ohnishi, M. Ichikawa, Chem. Commun.
2003, 86.
52. V. R. Choudhary, A. K. Kinage, T. V. Choudhary, Science 1997,
275, 1286.
53. O. A. Anunziata,
G. V. Gonz´
alez
Mercado,
L. B. Pierella,
Catal. Lett. 2003, 87, 167.
54. G. V. Echevsky, E. G. Kodenev, O. V. Kikhtyanin, V. N. Par-
mon, Appl. Catal. A: General 2004, 258, 159.
55. M. C. J. Bradford, M. Te, M. Konduru, D. X. Fuentes, Appl.
Catal. A: General 2004, 266, 55.
56. M. Siskin, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1976, 98, 5413.
57. J. Sommer, M. Muller, K. Laali, Nouv. J. Chim. 1982, 6, 3.
58. M. S. Scurrell, Appl. Catal. 1987, 32, 1.
59. G. A. Olah, J. D. Felberg, K. Lammertsma, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1983, 105, 6529.
60. M. S. Scurrell, Appl. Catal. 1987, 34, 109.
61. A. Alkhawaldeh, X. Wu, R. G. Anthony, Catal. Today 2003, 84,
43.
62. C. M. Naccache,
P. M´
eriaudeau,
G. Sapaly,
L. Van
Tiep,
Y. Ben Taˆ
arit, J. Catal. 2002, 205, 217.
63. T. Baba, H. Sawada, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2002, 4, 3919.
64. T. Baba,Y. Abe,K. Nomoto,K. Inazu,T. Echizen,A. Ishikawa,
K. Murai, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 4263.
65. C. Ovalles, V. Leon, S. Reyes, F. Rosa, J. Catal. 1991, 129, 368.
66. Y. Traa, D. Singer, in Innovation in the Manufacture and Use
of Hydrogen, Proceedings of the DGMK-Conference, Dresden,
October 15–17, 2003, G. Emig, S. Ernst, K. Harth, M. Rupp
(Eds.), DGMK-Tagungsbericht 2003-2, DGMK, Hamburg,
2003, p. 229.
67. T. Koerts, P. A. Leclercq, R. A. van Santen, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1992, 114, 7272.
68. G. A. Olah, P. Schilling, J. S. Staral, Y. Halpern, J. A. Olah,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1975, 97, 6807.
69. V. Haensel, US Patent 4 524 230, assigned to UOP, 1985.
70. R. B. LaPierre, R. A. Morrison, US Patent 4 899 008, assigned
to Mobil Oil, 1990.
71. A. V. Smirnov, E. V. Mazin, V. V. Yuschenko, E. E. Knyazeva,
S. N. Nesterenko,
I. I. Ivanova,
L. Galperin,
R. Jensen,
S. Bradley, J. Catal. 2000, 194, 266.
72. S. Todorova, B.-L. Su, Catal. Today 2004, 93–95, 417.
73. S. I. Abasov, F. A. Babayeva, R. R. Zarbaliyev, G. G. Abbasova,
D. B. Tagiyev, M. I. Rustamov, Appl. Catal. A: General 2003,
251, 267.
74. I. I. Ivanova,N. Blom,E. G. Derouane,J.Mol.Catal.A:General
1996, 109, 157.
75. A. V. Smirnov, E. V. Mazin, O. A. Ponomoreva, E. E. Knya-
zeva, S. N. Nesterenko, I. I. Ivanova, in Zeolites and Mesoporous
Materials at the Dawn of the 21st Century, A. Galarneau, F. Di
Renzo, F. Fajula, J. Vedrine (Eds.), Studies in Surface Science
and Catalysis, Vol. 135, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2001, abstract on
p. 153 and full paper No. 25-O-05 on accompanying CD.
76. S. Kato, K. Nakagawa, N. Ikenaga, T. Suzuki, Chem. Lett. 1999,
207.
77. S. Kato, K. Nakagawa, N. Ikenaga, T. Suzuki, Catal. Lett. 2001,
73, 175.
78. F. Yuichi, Japanese Patent 111 995 27, assigned to Asahi
Chemical Industry, 1999.
79. S. Sealy, Y. Traa, Appl. Catal. A: General 2005, 294, 273.
80. S. Sealy, D. Singer, Y. Traa, in Oxidation and Functionaliza-
tion: Classical and Alternative Routes and Sources, Proceedings
of the DGMK/SCI-Conference, Milan, October 12–14, 2005,
S. Ernst, E. Gallei, J. A. Lercher, S. Rossini, E. Santacesaria
(Eds.), DGMK-Tagungsbericht 2005-2, DGMK, Hamburg,
2005, p. 245.
81. M. Taouﬁk, E. Schwab, M. Schultz, D. Vanoppen, M. Walter,
J. Thivolle-Cazat, J.-M. Basset, Chem. Commun. 2004, 1434.
82. M. O. Adebajo, R. F. Howe, M. A. Long, Catal. Lett. 2001,
72, 221.
83. J.-M. Basset, C. Coperet, R. Pardy, D. Soulivong, J. G. Sunley,
J. Thivolle-Cazat, US Patent Application 2005/0014987 A1,
2005.
84. R. A. Morrison, US Patent 4 686 316, assigned to Mobil Oil,
1987.
85. X. Wang, H. Carabineiro, F. Lemos, M. A. N. D. A. Lemos,
F. Ramˆ
oa Ribeiro, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical 2004, 216, 131.
86. T.-K. Cheung, B. C. Gates, J. Catal. 1997, 168, 522.
14.6
Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
Karl Josef Caspary∗, Helmut Gehrke, Max Heinritz-Adrian,
and Meinhard Schwefer
14.6.1
Introduction
14.6.1.1
Importance of Light Alkenes
Light alkenes are among the most important intermediate
products in the chemical industry. For example, in 2003,
the worldwide production of ethene was 100 × 106 t
and approximately 56 × 106 t for propene [1]. Ethene
is primarily used for the production of polymers,
especially polyethylenes (HDPE,
LDPE, LLDPE) or
precursors of other polymer compounds such as 1,2-
dichloroethane/vinyl chloride as a precursor of PVC,
ethylbenzene/styrene as a precursor of polystyrene or
ethylene oxide as a precursor of ethylene glycols or
polyethoxylates.
Propene is also important for the production of
polymers, mainly for the production of polypropylene
∗Corresponding author.
14.6.2 Conceptual Approach
3207
(PP), but also in the production of cumene, acrylonitrile,
acrylic acid/acrolein or propylene oxide [2].
Other light alkenes are used much less frequently
in comparison with the above two alkenes, ethene and
propene. Butenes (1-butene, 2-butenes and isobutene) are
chieﬂy used for the production of high-octane gasoline
additives (MTBE, ETBE in the case of isobutene, alkylates
in the case of n-butenes). Even-numbered α-alkenes (such
as 1-hexene or 1-octene) are used as co-monomers for
the production of polyethylenes or polypropylenes. The
signiﬁcance of the remaining light alkenes is low.
Steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most important
process for the production of light alkenes. World-scale
steam crackers have the capacity to produce more than
106 t per annum of ethene.
Another source of low alkenes, especially propene, is
catalytic cracking in the form of ﬂuid catalytic cracking
(FCC). In a reﬁnery, FCC is used for the production of fuel
components (gasoline and kerosene or diesel oils) from
high-boiling crude oil distillation fractions. In addition,
low alkenes, especially propene and butenes, are also
formed in this process, which at present is preferably
performed with zeolite-type catalysts.
In 2002, approximately 61% of propene production
was via steam cracking and approximately 34% was
obtained by catalytic cracking. To cover the continuously
increasing demand for propene, it was also necessary to
generate about another 3% by catalytic dehydrogenation
of propane [3]. The remaining amount was obtained from
other processes such as metathesis or deep catalytic
cracking (DCC) of vacuum gas oil (VGO).
An increase in the share of the catalytic dehydrogenation
of propane in the overall production of propene can be
expected. On the one hand, the production of propene in
existing naphtha crackers cannot be increased without
limit at the cost of ethene production since, as a
matter of principle, thermodynamic limits prevent a
propene/ethene ratio of approximately 0.6–0.7 from being
exceeded. On the other hand, predominantly ethane-based
steam crackers are being built that produce only a small
amount of propene, and the production of propene in
these systems is generally not economically justiﬁable.
Furthermore, the predicted growth rate for propene is
higher than that for ethene [4].
14.6.1.2
Historical Developments
In the 1940s, UOP (Universal Oil Products) built plants
for the catalytic dehydrogenation of butanes. Chro-
mia/alumina catalysts were used in these systems [5].
The butenes generated in these systems were dimerized
and served for the production of aircraft fuel. At the
same time, Houdry developed a comparable process for
the catalytic dehydrogenation of n-butane. This develop-
ment was further extended, leading to the CATADIEN
process, which became the ﬁrst commercial process for
producing 1,3-butadiene via catalytic dehydrogenation of
n-butane.
Platinum-based dehydrogenation catalysts were used
for the ﬁrst time in the 1960s. Their initial application
was in the PACOL process by UOP for producing linear
alkenes for detergents [5].
Oxidative dehydrogenation was used commercially for
the ﬁrst time in 1965 in the Oxo-D process by Petrotex for
producing 1,3-butadiene [6]. A comparable development
by Phillips led to the O-X-D process [7, 8].
Other systems were developed subsequently, especially
for the dehydrogenation of isobutane. The isobutene
produced in these plants primarily served to produce
MTBE as a high-octane fuel additive. The availability of
propane from the processing of natural gas or associated
gas from crude oil production led to an increased
interest in propane dehydrogenation. For this reason,
the economics-driven focus now lies on systems for the
catalytic dehydrogenation of propane.
At
present,
processes
for
propane
dehydrogena-
tion are commercially available that work with both
platinum-based catalysts (the UOP Oleﬂex process [9],
the Uhde STAR process [2] and the Linde/BASF PDH
process [10]) and chromia/alumina catalysts (the ABB
Lummus CATOFIN process [11] and the Snamprogetti-
Yarsintez FBD process [12, 13]).
14.6.2
Conceptual Approach
The technical realization of catalytic alkane dehydrogena-
tion is problematic, despite its simple stoichiometry. On
the one hand, this is due to the thermodynamic limitation
of alkane conversion. On the other hand, the reaction is
strongly endothermic. For example, the following holds
true for the dehydrogenation of propane:
C3H8−
−
−
⇀
↽
−
−
−C3H6 + H2
(H ◦
298 = +124.3 kJ mol−1)
(1)
14.6.2.1
Inﬂuence of Temperature on the Equilibrium
Figure 1 shows the equilibrium conversion for selected
alkanes as a function of reaction temperature. To achieve
technically relevant conversions of 30–50%, reaction
temperatures of 825–975 K are required for propane and
775–825 K are correspondingly required for isobutane. As
the carbon number of the alkanes to be dehydrogenated
increases, the reaction temperature falls. In contrast,
References see page 3227
3208
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Conversion / %
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
Temperature / K
Cyclo-C6
n-C6
i-C4
C3
C2
n-C5
At 100 kPa
Fig. 1
Equilibrium conversions of some alkanes at 100 kPa.
temperatures of approximately 1000 K are required for
ethane dehydrogenation to achieve technically relevant
conversions of 50%.
Higher reaction temperatures lead to thermal cracking
of both the alkanes utilized and the alkenes formed. This
in turn reduces the alkene selectivity. Hence when design-
ing technical dehydrogenation processes, a compromise
always has to be struck between economically reasonable
alkene selectivities and alkane conversions. Losses in se-
lectivity arise from consecutive reactions of the alkenes
formed and side-reactions of the alkanes utilized. In
addition, tar and coke-like deposits arise.
Since the alkenes formed in the dehydrogenation pro-
cess are less stable than the corresponding alkanes,
undesirable side and consecutive reactions occur, espe-
cially at high levels of alkane conversion.
14.6.2.2
Inﬂuence of Partial Pressure on the Equilibrium
Considering the equilibrium of the reaction of alkanes
to alkenes and hydrogen, it would be useful to shift the
reaction equilibrium toward the side of the alkenes either
by reducing the alkane partial pressure or by removing
the formed hydrogen.
To lower the alkane partial pressure, dehydrogenation
can either occur in the sub-atmospheric range (CATOFIN
process) or the alkane feed stream can be diluted with
steam (STAR process or Linde/BASF-PDH process).
Figure 2 shows the conversions for ethane and propane as
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Conversion / %
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
Temperature / K
C3 at 25 kPa
C3 at 100 kPa
C2 at 100 kPa
C2 at 25 kPa
Fig. 2
Equilibrium conversions of ethane and propane at 100 and 25 kPa.
14.6.2 Conceptual Approach
3209
a function of the reaction temperature with alkane partial
pressures of 100 or 25 kPa.
14.6.2.3
Energy of Alkane Dehydrogenation
The energy required for abstracting two hydrogen atoms
from an alkane is almost completely independent of the
carbon number of the alkanes. For higher alkanes, it lies
between 113 kJ mol−1 with the formation of alkenes with
an internal double bond and 137 kJ mol−1 for ethane.
This means that the required energy for dehydrogenation
on a mass basis is much higher for lower alkanes (ethane
and propane) than for higher alkanes.
To provide a high reaction heat, it is necessary either to
overheat the reaction mixture before it enters the reaction
zone containing the catalyst or to preheat the catalyst
(after regeneration) or to ﬁre the reaction zone.
14.6.2.4
Formation of By-Products
Thermal cracking reactions produce low alkanes (es-
pecially methane) and coke. In addition, the catalyst
(depending on the type of alkane) can cause isomer-
ization reactions, oligomerization, hydrogenolysis, dehy-
drocyclization or the formation of multiply unsaturated
compounds.
Coke deposits on the catalyst resulting from the various
reactions deactivate the catalyst. For this reason, the
coke is regularly burned off either continuously (as
in the Oleﬂex process) or cyclically (as in the STAR
process).
Figure 3 shows the potential reaction paths in the
dehydrogenation of light alkanes and Fig. 4 the possible
reaction paths in the dehydrogenation of higher alkanes,
both on platinum catalysts [5]. Here reactions are included
that occur on platinum metal sites, in addition to those
that occur on acid sites of the support material.
Pt
Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
n-Alkane
Isoalkane
Isoalkene
n-Alkene
n-Diene
A, Pt
A
A
A
Cracked products A
A
Pt
Polymers
A, Pt
Coke
Pt = Platinum site
A = Acid site
Fig. 3
Reaction of light alkanes in dehydrogenation on platinum
and acid sites [5].
References see page 3227
Aromatics
Pt
Pt
Pt
Pt
Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
A, Pt
Cycloalkenes
Cycloalkanes
n-Alkane
n-Alkene
Cracked products
A
A
A
A
A
A
Pt = Platinum site
A = Acid site
Isoalkane
Isoalkene
Coke
Polymers
n-Diene
n-Triene
Fig. 4
Reaction of higher alkanes in dehydrogenation on platinum and acid sites [5].
3210
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
In contrast to dehydrogenation of light alkanes, signif-
icant amounts of aromatics arise in the dehydrogenation
of heavy alkanes due to dehydrocyclization reactions. For
example, n-hexane can produce benzene in addition to
n-hexenes, and n-octane and isooctanes correspondingly
produce ethylbenzene and xylene isomers.
14.6.2.5
Removal of Hydrogen to Shift the Equilibrium
The removal of the hydrogen formed during dehy-
drogenation is possible by (multiple) addition of an
oxygen-containing gas (air, enriched air or an O2–steam
mixture) to a partially converted reaction product followed
by the selective reaction of the hydrogen with the oxygen.
Pioneering work in this area was done by Imai [14] on
the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and by Imai and
Jan [15] on the dehydrogenation of low alkanes. The exclu-
sive reaction of hydrogen with oxygen is termed selective
hydrogen combustion (SHC). The simultaneous supply
of the hydrogen-containing product gas and an oxygen-
containing stream for SHC is termed the co-fed process
mode [16, 17].
It is also possible, however, to convert the hydrogen
into water with solid oxygen-donating redox systems.
This process is termed the REDOX process mode [17, 18].
By selectively oxidizing the hydrogen, it is not only
possible to remove the hydrogen from the reaction
equilibrium and hence increase the propane conversion,
but also simultaneously to heat up the reaction mixture in
situ due to the highly exothermic combustion of hydrogen.
For that reason, the dehydrogenation equilibrium is
positively inﬂuenced.
H2 + 1/2O2−
−
−
⇀
↽
−
−
−H2O (H ◦
298 = −242.0 kJ mol−1) (2)
In principle, the strategies outlined below can be
applied for removing the hydrogen formed during
dehydrogenation.
14.6.2.5.1
Spatial Separation of Dehydrogenation and
Hydrogen Combustion
The initial alkane dehydrogena-
tion (DH) occurs in a ﬁrst reaction zone. The product
of this reaction zone is fed to a second reaction zone in
which at least part of the hydrogen formed in the ﬁrst
reaction zone is burned with oxygen.
The catalysts in the dehydrogenation zone can have a
different composition to the catalysts in the combustion
zone. Examples of these systems in the combustion
zone are SnPO4 [19], platinum and platinum/tin on Na-
doped γ -Al2O3 [14], solid palladium or palladium/silver
alloys [20], platinum or palladium on SnO2 or platinum
on TiO2, Nb2O5 or Ta2O5 [21] and oxides of the metals
Bi, In, Sb, Zn, Tl, Pb or Te [22]. Metal-exchanged zeolites
based on ZSM-5 are also used [23].
Comprehensive investigations were carried out by
Grasselli et al. [16]. Accordingly, Sb2O4, In2O3, WO3
and Bi2O3 on silica yielded selectivities of more than
98% for SHC. For In2O3, zirconia was identiﬁed as the
best support. Mixed metal oxides such as Bi2Mo3O12
and In2Mo3O12 give selectivities for SHC of 99 and
98.4% [24].
An additional non-oxidative dehydrogenation of the
remaining alkane occurs in a subsequent reaction zone.
The repeated addition of oxygen followed by additional
dehydrogenation steps is also possible.
The sequence of the process steps can be written as
follows:
DH −
−
−
→SHC −
−
−
→DH (−
−
−
→SHC −
−
−
→DH)n
In another design of this variant, it is possible to oxidize
the hydrogen not by elemental oxygen but by supplying
the oxygen to the reaction mixture in the form of a solid
oxygen carrier [18, 25]. Since the oxygen of the oxygen
carrier becomes depleted over the course of hydrogen
oxidation, the oxygen carrier must be regularly re-oxidized
(REDOX mode). Not supplying elemental oxygen to the
hydrocarbon–hydrogen reaction mixture is an advantage
in this mode in terms of safety. The disadvantage is that a
cyclic process is required to reoxidize the oxygen-depleted
hydrogen oxidation catalyst.
14.6.2.5.2
Dehydrogenation and Hydrogen Combustion in
a Catalyst Bed
The alkane dehydrogenation (DH) and
selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) occur in a common
reaction zone in which either the required catalysts
are physically mixed or only one catalyst catalyzes both
reactions.
In one process variant, the hydrogen combustion is
brought about by bound oxygen in the form of redox-active
catalysts that are mixed with the dehydrogenation catalyst.
Haldor-Topsøe claims the use of vanadium phosphate, for
example [26], and BP proposes the use of a zeolite-based
Au/Ce redox catalyst [27].
In the preferred variant, an oxygen-containing stream
is supplied to the hydrogen-containing reaction product
of a ﬁrst dehydrogenation step (co-fed process mode).
The mixture is then fed to another catalyst bed in which
selective hydrogen combustion occurs at the same time as
the further dehydrogenation of unreacted alkane. Suitable
catalytic systems are platinum/tin on ZnAl2O4 [28] or on
Mg(Al)O [29] and platinum or platinum/tin on Cs- or
K-doped Al2O3 [30]. This concept is used in the present
STAR process (see Section 14.6.6.2).
14.6.2.5.3
Oxidative Dehydrogenation (ODH)
In con-
trast to the two variants described above, the alkane to
14.6.3 Catalytic Systems
3211
be dehydrogenated is directly reacted with oxygen in an
oxidative dehydrogenation. For example, the following
holds true for the reaction of propane with oxygen:
C3H8 + 1/2O2 −
−
−
→C3H6 + H2O
(H ◦
298 = −117.6 kJ mol−1)
(3)
In contrast to conventional dehydrogenation [Eq. (1)],
there is no thermodynamic restriction with ODH. With
ODH, complete alkane conversion is possible even at low
temperatures. The challenges associated with ODH are
the development of catalytic systems with a long lifetime
and the increase in selectivity for the formation of the
alkenes.
A detailed description of ODH is provided in Chap-
ter 14.11.2.
14.6.3
Catalytic Systems
High demands are placed on the activity and selectivity
of the catalysts for dehydrogenating alkanes. Thus, the
catalysts must be capable of very selectively activating
the C–H bond of the alkanes to initiate H2 elimination.
Cleavage of the C–C bond that yields the undesirable
cracking of the molecule must be suppressed, and also
hydrogenolysis or isomerization reactions that cause
additional hydrogen to split off, or C–C coupling
reactions, which in turn cause the formation of coke
(see Figs. 3 and 4).
Since the C−H bond energies in alkanes are signiﬁ-
cantly greater than those in the corresponding alkenes
or the C–C bond energies, potential dehydrogenation
catalysts must reverse the existing undesirable thermo-
dynamic ranking of potential reactions. It is therefore
not surprising that the above side-reactions also occur
with all known catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation,
and the catalysts are subsequently laden with carbon-
containing by-products and are thereby deactivated. As
described in Section 14.6.2.4, this also occurs when side-
reactions or the formation of carbon-containing deposits
are suppressed by continually supplying hydrogen or
steam.
This yields a second important set of requirements for
the catalyst, i.e. the ability to be periodically regenerated.
This means that the catalyst must have an elevated thermal
stability since it is normally regenerated by burning off the
carbon-containing deposits, which can substantially raise
the temperature above the normal operating temperature.
This affects both the active components of the catalyst and
their support. This requirement is rendered all the more
important by the change of the chemical atmosphere from
reductive to the oxidative conditions of regeneration. Any
chemical or structural changes of the catalysts must also
be completely reversible if the catalyst is to be technically
useful.
Given the above stringent requirements, it is under-
standable that of the numerous catalysts proposed and
investigated, only two catalyst systems have made it out of
the laboratory to a pilot test or to industrial application (see
also Ref. [31]). On the one hand these are supported Pt–Sn
catalysts (Uhde STAR, UOP Oleﬂex, BASF, Statoil/Sintef)
as representatives of supported metal catalysts and on the
other hand chromia catalysts (Snamprogetti-Yarsintez
FBD, Houdry CATOFIN, Linde) as representatives of
supported transition metal oxide catalysts.
14.6.3.1
Supported Chromia Catalysts
The use of chromium-based catalysts for dehydrogenation
was
ﬁrst
described
by
Frey
and
Huppke [32,
33]
in the 1930s and has repeatedly been intensively
investigated since then. Among other things, this has
resulted in the development of various commercial
dehydrogenation processes (Phillips, UOP, Houdry,
Snamprogetti-Yarsintez, etc.) as already described in
the introduction. The technical catalysts consist of an
alumina support on which chromia (10–20 wt.%) is
dispersed together with doped alkali metals (up to
2 wt.%) [34, 35].
14.6.3.1.1
Chromia
on
Al2O3
Supports
Chromia/
alumina oxide catalysts are typical representatives of sup-
ported transition metal oxide catalysts. The support not
only determines the mechanical and physical properties of
the catalyst, for example by increasing the speciﬁc surface
area and preventing sintering effects, but also substan-
tially inﬂuences catalytic properties such as the activity
and selectivity of the catalysts by stabilizing certain states
of the dispersed Cr species [36].
Numerous approaches have been described in patents
and the literature for the production of chromia/alumina
oxide catalysts. A conventional approach for obtaining
these catalysts is to start with preshaped alumina
support materials and impregnate them with CrO3 or
Cr3+ nitrate solutions (incipient wetness) or precipitate
chromium hydroxide from Cr3+ solutions [34, 36]. The
joint precipitation (coprecipitation) of aluminum and
chromium hydroxide from Al3+ and Cr3+ solutions
has also been described, in addition to ‘‘wet’’ and ‘‘dry
mixing’’ procedures, the decomposition of binary Al/Cr
complexes [37] and the deposition of volatile chromium
compounds on alumina supports from the gas phase,
so-called ‘‘atomic layer deposition’’ (ALD) [38, 39]. The
ﬁnal step in the production process is usually calcination
at approximately 870 K.
References see page 3227
3212
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
As mentioned, technical catalysts are also doped with an
alkali metal (K, Rb, Cs) that is added during production,
for example as K2CrO4 to an impregnating solution. As
is the case with Pt–Sn catalysts, these serve not just to
alkalize the support and hence suppress undesirable side-
reactions on the support surface, but also signiﬁcantly
inﬂuence the catalytic activity of the chromia. It was
accordingly found that doping 0.5% K2O on 10% chromia
on alumina can almost double the rate of reaction of
n-butane dehydrogenation in comparison with a non-
promoted catalyst [36], whereas an inhibiting effect was
reported for higher K2O/CrO3 ratios [40].
A
Structure and Reactivity
There have been many in-
vestigations on the mode of operation of chromia/alumina
catalysts in the dehydrogenation of alkanes, i.e. the rela-
tionship between their structure and reactivity. Reviews
are available [34, 41]. The relationships are complex since
chromium can occur in various oxidation states (+6, +5,
+3, +2) that depend not only on the composition of the
catalyst, i.e. the amount of chromia and any additives,
but also on the production method and the operating
conditions of the catalyst. In an industrial application,
the operating conditions change periodically between the
reductive conditions of dehydrogenation and the oxidative
conditions of catalyst regeneration.
B
Oxidized State
In the oxidized state that exists after
the ﬁnal calcination in the production of the catalyst,
the oxidation states Cr3+ and Cr6+ predominate in
addition to traces of Cr5+ depending on the amount
of chromium [34, 40, 41]. If only small quantities of
chromium are used, water-insoluble, surface-grafted Cr6+
species are detectable, but when more chromium is used,
water-soluble Cr6+ compounds and increasingly disperse
Cr2O3 can be found. Further increasing the amount of
chromium yields crystalline Cr2O3. Corresponding to
the thermodynamics, which indicate α-Cr2O3 to be the
thermodynamically stable species, the amount of Cr2O3
increases with the calcination temperature [35, 40].
C
Reduced State
After reducing the catalyst for
dehydrogenation, which is carried out either within the
process by adding the hydrocarbon to be dehydrogenated
or separately beforehand, e.g. by adding hydrogen, all
of the chromium exists as Cr3+ and Cr2+. A discussion
exists as to which species are the actual catalytically active
sites and from which oxidized species they originate [40,
42]. The highest catalytic activity is generally attributed
to coordinatively unsaturated, disperse Cr3+ [34, 43]
that is either mononuclear isolated or multinuclear
clustered [44, 45]. The dehydrogenation activity ﬁrst
increases with the chromium load and then passes
through a maximum. Above this maximum, the activity
decreases as more chromium is added, which is ascribed
to the formation of crystalline α-Cr2O3. This is held to
have only low activity [38–40].
D
Regeneration
Since the chromia/alumina oxide
catalysts are deactivated relatively quickly by the formation
of coke during dehydrogenation (within a few minutes,
depending on the conditions), they must be regularly
regenerated in industrial operation. Some of the Cr3+
ions are oxidized to form Cr6+ that disperses over the
catalyst surface [40]. Apparently, the interaction between
the Cr species and the alumina surface stabilizes the
Cr6+ state since free CrO3, even in the presence of
air, would be completely converted to Cr2O3 above
570 K. Alternating periodic oxidation and reduction
promotes the continuous redispersal of a portion of the
Cr3+ ions. This redispersal is enhanced in industrial
catalysts by the addition of alkali metal promoters.
For example, potassium during oxidative regeneration
forms potassium chromate and potassium dichromate,
i.e. Cr(VI) complexes that decompose to form Cr3+ under
reductive process conditions [40].
Nevertheless, chromia/alumina catalysts in an indus-
trial context suffer from increasing deactivation, which
has been correlated [42] with a decreasing amount of
Cr6+ (in an oxidized state). One possible reason for this is
the progressive thermal sintering of the alumina surface
and the related lack of surface stabilization of the Cr(VI)
species; another possible reason is the incorporation of
surface-bound Cr species into the Al2O3 bulk matrix with
the partial formation of solid solutions or the formation
of mixed oxides (spinel phases) [34, 37, 42, 44].
14.6.3.1.2
Chromia on SiO2/ZrO2 Supports
In addition
to the use of alumina, other supports for chromia catalysts
have been described, such as zirconia or silica. These
prevent the above-described formation of spinel phases.
In particular, zirconium oxide appears to be potentially
suitable as a support material due to its weak acidity
and basicity, especially since chromia exerts a positive
effect on the insufﬁcient stability of zirconia towards
sintering [46–48].
As discussed by de Rossi et al. in the example of
the dehydrogenation of propane [48, 49] or isobutane [45],
chromia/zirconia catalysts manifest intrinsically greater
activity than chromia/alumina or chromia/silica catalysts.
This is ascribed to the increased amount of Cr5+ in an
oxidized state that is reduced to form mononuclear Cr3+
under operating conditions. Doping chromia/zirconia
catalysts with sodium has a detrimental effect on catalytic
activity, in contrast to alumina-based catalysts. This is
explained by the reaction (and hence change) of the
14.6.3 Catalytic Systems
3213
surface-bound O2−species that are believed to be an
essential trigger for the catalytic activity of zirconia-based
catalysts for dehydrogenation. The potential number of
stabilizers for zirconia therefore appears restricted.
As illustrated for the aromatization of n-octane [50],
doping
with
La2O3
can
substantially
improve
the
sintering stability of chromia/zirconia catalysts while
simultaneously increasing activity.
14.6.3.2
Supported Platinum/Tin Catalysts
With the well-known supported metal catalysts of other
hydrocarbon conversions as in catalytic reforming (see
Chapter 13.4), the metal normally catalyzes hydrogena-
tion and dehydrogenation reactions, whereas the acid
function of the support catalyzes carbon skeletal rear-
rangements. In contrast, catalysts for dehydrogenating
alkanes must be monofunctional, i.e. they must exclu-
sively promote the dehydrogenation reaction and not the
hydrogenolysis of educts and products into low alkanes
that is characteristic of metal catalysts. The supports for
these catalysts are accordingly non-acidic or their acidity
is intentionally modiﬁed with suitable bases.
14.6.3.2.1
Platinum as Active Component
For the non-
oxidative dehydrogenation of low alkanes, the patent
literature cites all the precious metals of Group VIIIb
of the periodic system as active components in supported
metal catalysts. However, only platinum has been used in
industry or pilot plants. Platinum is also the predominant
active component in other important catalytic processes
for converting hydrocarbons such as the UOP Platforming
process for reforming gasoline. The characteristics of
platinum that contribute to its superior useful properties
are as follows:
• its high catalytic activity in hydrogenation and dehydro-
genation reactions
• its comparatively low catalytic activity in undesirable
hydrogenolysis reactions
• its ability to form high, thermally stable dispersions on
suitable supports
• its low vapor pressure at the high temperatures in the
respective processes
• the possibility of modifying its catalytic properties
by adding other catalytically active or inactive metals
(bimetallic or multimetallic catalysts) that to a certain
degree allows the production of tailored catalysts [51].
14.6.3.2.2
Tin as Modiﬁer
All supported platinum
catalysts which are known to have been used industrially
or on a pilot scale for the dehydrogenation of low
alkanes contain catalytically inactive tin as a modifying
component, i.e. they are bimetallic Pt–Sn catalysts:
• Pt–Sn on alkalized (θ)-Al2O3 (UOP) [52]
• Pt–Sn on basic ZnAl2O4/MgAl2O4 (Uhde) [53, 54]
• Pt–Sn on hydrotalcite-based Mg-Al mixed oxides
(Statoil/Linde) [55, 56]
• Pt–Sn on modiﬁed ZrO2 (BASF/Linde) [57]
Other known modiﬁers that function like Sn, such
as Ge, Pb, Re and Bi, have not become established as
catalysts for the dehydrogenation of low alkanes.
The positive effects of tin in these Pt–Sn catalysts are
• greater selectivity towards valuable alkene products,
especially due to the suppression of selectivity-reducing
hydrogenolysis reactions of educts and products
• a reduced tendency towards catalytic deactivation and
hence a longer life (longer work cycles) [58].
14.6.3.2.3
State and Mode of Operation of Platinum and
Tin
Although these phenomena are undisputed, the
discussion of the mode of operation of tin in these
catalysts is still unresolved decades after the development
of the ﬁrst Pt–Sn catalyst. The discussion deals with both
the state of tin in the working catalyst and the mode of
operation of the active Sn species.
A
State
of
Pt
and
Sn
The
state
of
Pt–Sn
in
supported catalysts has been repeatedly investigated (e.g.
Refs. [59–62]). The system Pt/Al2O3 has been examined
particularly thoroughly (e.g. Refs. [59, 62–66]). For the
other above-mentioned Pt–Sn systems, analogies have
been found or postulated; however, the nature of the
support can strongly inﬂuence the surface chemistry
of the active components of a catalyst. According to
present knowledge, tin in the active (reduced) state of
supported Pt–Sn catalysts exists at least partially in
the form of mixed Pt–Sn particles in the nanometer
range (‘‘bimetallic/alloy particles/clusters’’), in which
both components are present in a zero valence metallic
state [59, 63, 67]. In addition, depending on the conditions
of preparation and investigation, oxidic and chloridic
Sn(II) and Sn(IV) species can occur depending on
the preparation and investigative conditions. Their
interactions with Pt particles and the support have been
discussed, for example, in Refs. [66, 68].
The origin of bimetallic Pt–Sn particles can be portrayed
as follows [63]. In the calcined ‘‘as-prepared’’ state of
the Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, platinum and tin are initially
present in the form of surface-stabilized Pt4+ or Sn4+
species. During reduction in hydrogen or in a reaction
atmosphere, nanometer-sized Pt0 particles are formed
from the Pt4+ species, whereas Sn4+ is initially only
reduced to form support-stabilized Sn2+. The latter
References see page 3227
3214
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
reduction is catalyzed by platinum, which causes a
spillover from the active hydrogen onto the Sn4+ species.
Directly adjacent to the Pt0 particles, activated (nascent)
hydrogen causes a further reduction of the Sn species to
form Sn0, which in turn forms bimetallic Pt–Sn particles
with the Pt0 particles. The remaining Sn2+ that is not
included in this ‘‘alloy formation’’ remains unchanged
on the Al2O3 support. The extent of the alloy formation
depends on numerous factors, such as the amount of
platinum, platinum dispersion, Sn content, preparation
conditions and reduction conditions [59, 60].
B
Mode of Operation of Pt and Sn
To explain the
modiﬁcation of the catalytic properties by tin in a
bimetallic Pt–Sn catalyst, two different models/effects
(the contributions of which are frequently difﬁcult to
separate) have been discussed in the literature, as is the
case with bimetallic particles in heterogeneous catalysis in
general [69, 70]: on the one hand, the ‘‘ensemble effect’’ as
a speciﬁc case of the ‘‘geometric factor’’ and on the other
the ‘‘ligand effect’’ as a speciﬁc instance of the ‘‘electronic
factor’’ [61, 69–76].
C
Ensemble Effect
The discussion of the ensemble
effect goes back to the concept of so-called structure-
insensitive reactions (‘‘facile reactions’’) and structure-
sensitive reactions (‘‘demanding reactions’’) [77, 78].
Dehydrogenationreactions as typical structure-insensitive
reactions require only a very small ‘‘ensemble’’ of cat-
alytically active atoms as active sites – in borderline
cases, only a single (metal) atom. In contrast, the
undesired side-reactions of alkane dehydrogenation, such
as hydrogenolysis and coke formation as typical structure-
sensitive reactions, only occur on large ensembles of
metal atoms that may be geometrically complex. In
the ensemble effect, the tin ‘‘dilutes’’ the platinum
surface and so destroys larger platinum surface ensem-
bles. The structure-insensitive main reaction of alkane
dehydrogenation is thereby preferred, whereas selectivity-
reducing hydrogenolysis and deactivating coke formation
are suppressed. In addition, it has been noted that the
structurally complex coke precursors on the remaining
small platinum ensembles are difﬁcult to adsorb. The
coke precursors thereby diffuse more easily from the
metal surface to the support surface, and a larger amount
of the metal surface remains free of coke and hence
catalytically active [79]. It is not absolutely necessary to
reduce the production of coke to achieve a long catalyst
life, a conclusion which has been conﬁrmed in the case
of some Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalysts.
D
Ligand Effect
In the ligand effect, the atoms of the
additive, tin in this case, are viewed as a ligand of the
Pt atoms that inﬂuences their electronic properties. Sn
atoms function as electron donors that ﬁll the holes
in the 5d band of the Pt atoms. Consequently, the
adsorption properties and hence the catalytic properties
of platinum are modiﬁed to reduce hydrogenolysis and
slow deactivation.
In the case of bimetallic catalysts, the geometric
ensemble effect that arises from the dilution of the active
metal by the second metal is frequently sufﬁcient to
explain the observed phenomena. Investigations using
state-of-the-art physical methods have shown that metals
in alloys usually retain their identity, and the charge
transfer from the modifying metal atom to the active
metal in the investigated systems required for the ligand
effect is comparatively insigniﬁcant [51]. The bonding
energies of the active metal, platinum in this instance,
to the adsorbing molecules are not altered by bimetallic
modiﬁcation as much as would be expected with a ligand
effect, and not enough to lead to signiﬁcant changes in
the catalytic properties [70, 80].
14.6.3.2.4
Role of the Support
As is the case with
all supported catalysts, the support material promotes
dispersion, i.e. the optimum distribution and ﬁxing of
the active components on the surface of the catalyst.
The support should have a sufﬁciently high speciﬁc
surface area that remains constant under the given
operating conditions, i.e. is thermally stable, especially
during the required regeneration of the catalysts [81].
When steam is added as in the STAR process or the
Linde/BASF-PDH process, lasting hydrothermal stability
must also be ensured.
The material per se must also not have any catalytic
effect that counteracts the target reaction. This means
the absence of (Brønsted) acidic centers that, as shown in
Figs. 3 and 4, catalyze a host of undesirable side reactions.
On the other hand, the presence of Lewis acid centers
or amphoteric OH groups contributes to an optimum
dispersion of the platinum. For this reason, Al2O3, for
example, is preferred over pure SiO2 [82, 83] and there are
clear limits on the use of the basic supports MgO, CaO,
BaO and ZnO [84].
The shaped catalyst should have a sufﬁciently large pore
diameter to allow easy access for the educt molecules and
especially the fast removal of the products. The latter
is all the more important since consecutive reactions of
the alkenes formed would reduce the selectivity of the
process. In addition, a large pore diameter can prevent
catalyst deactivation from plugged pores.
The above requirements can be more or less completely
fulﬁlled by classical support materials that are suitably
modiﬁed:
14.6.3 Catalytic Systems
3215
• For example, the catalyst of the Oleﬂex process is based
on an alumina support, preferably θ-Al2O3, with a
speciﬁc surface area of 50–120 m2 g−1, that is doped
with metals of Group IA or IIA (primarily K and Cs)
in an amount of up to 10 wt.% [52]. On the one hand,
the doping serves to alkalize the alumina, i.e. eliminate
the (Brønsted) acid sites with basic components, and
on the other, the doping serves to increase the thermal
stability of the alumina surface [85].
• The additives in the STAR catalyst serve a similar
function. Adding ZnO to Al2O3 transforms it into
ZnAl2O4, i.e. a spinel, which drastically reduces the
acidity of the support and also considerably increases
its stability, especially under hydrothermal conditions.
This is an advantage over doping with alkali metal,
which is not resistant to the presence of steam and high
temperatures. As described [53], adding CaAl2O4 as an
SiO2-free cement increases the mechanical stability and
additionally modiﬁes the interaction between the metal
and support and hence increases catalytic activity and
selectivity. The support of the STAR catalyst, which has
a speciﬁc surface area of approximately 30 m2 g−1 [53],
is therefore similar to classical (Ni-containing) steam
reforming catalysts [86].
• The catalyst claimed by BASF [57] with Pt–Sn as the
active components uses ZrO2 (preferably mixed with
SiO2) as a support material that possesses a speciﬁc
surface area of preferably >70 m g−1. The strong
(Lewis) acidity of these binary ZrO2/SiO2 oxides [87]
is moderated by being doped with basic components
(Cs, K, La). Whereas ZrO2 is distinguished by high
chemical and thermal stability, the use of SiO2-
containing catalysts under steam reforming conditions
is otherwise uncommon due to the potential release of
silicic acid.
• Another group of support materials ﬁrst cited in
1994 in the patent literature for the dehydrogenation
of alkanes are calcined hydrotalcites [55]. These are
defect-structured MgO phases in which MgO is
partially substituted by Al2O3 (Mg/Al ratio 3–5).
These phases are accessible by calcining corresponding
hydrotalcite precursors such as Mg6Al2(OH)16CO3 ·
4H2O at a temperature of about 973 K, and they
possess a relatively high speciﬁc surface area of
160–220 m2 g−1 [88]. Even though this support has a
much higher sintering stability than pure MgO, its
stability is still lower than desirable for industrial
use under a steam atmosphere as described in
Ref. [56]. There [56] an improved, i.e. more stable,
catalyst support is also claimed that is attainable
by increasing the calcination temperature of the
hydrotalcite precursor from 973 K to up to 1473 K,
preferably 1073 K.
14.6.3.2.5
Regeneration
of
Supported
Platinum/Tin
Catalysts
As already noted, all industrial catalysts for de-
hydrogenation must be regularly regenerated. This serves
to remove the deactivated coke deposits by burning and it
also serves to redisperse any ‘‘sintered’’ Pt(–Sn) particles.
The sintering of the Pt(–Sn) particles can result from
the continued use of the catalyst for dehydrogenation
or from overheating the catalysts due to coke burn-
ing during regeneration itself. The Pt–Sn catalysts for
the dehydrogenation of alkanes are regenerated either
continuously or intermittently, depending on the pro-
cess, i.e. after interrupting the dehydrogenation reaction,
but regeneration is always integrated in the overall sys-
tem (see Section 14.6.5.2). Regeneration can be achieved
by a range of methods and can vary substantially de-
pending on the technology used and the nature of the
catalyst.
A
Treatment with Molecular Oxygen
Treatment with
molecular oxygen is the most important procedure for
restoring catalytic activity. Oxygen is always used in
diluted form to keep the catalyst from being damaged by
the highly exothermic combustion of coke. The diluting
gases are inert gases (nitrogen) and steam.
The coke is frequently burned at two temperatures
depending on its location on the catalyst surface. At
a low temperature of 720 K, carbonaceous deposits in
contact with Pt particles that catalyze the oxidation burn.
At approximately 820 K, possibly also under the catalytic
effect of platinum (i.e. through ‘‘spillover’’ of activated
oxygen species from the metal to the support), coke
deposits on the support surface are eliminated [89].
In addition, treatment with oxygen-containing gases
can sufﬁciently restore the platinum dispersion, i.e. redis-
perse sintered Pt particles [90–92]. Some of the platinum
is oxidized to form oxidic [90] or oxychloridic species [92]
that can interact with the support surface (Al2O3) and
spread across it and form extremely disperse ‘‘two-
dimensional’’ surface species. The chlorine can originate
from the preparation and impregnation of the catalyst
or be specially added (see below). Extremely small Pt
particles of around 1 nm are formed in the subsequent
reduction of the oxidic and oxychloridic Pt species ei-
ther in a separate step or in the reaction atmosphere of
alkane dehydrogenation. The regeneration temperature
should be kept below approximately 870 K since oxidic
and oxychloridic Pt species start to decompose above
this temperature with the formation of larger Pt parti-
cles. This is associated with a drastic loss of platinum
dispersion [92].
References see page 3227
3216
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
The oxidative treatment of Pt–Sn catalysts oxidizes
the Sn(0) and Sn(II) species alloyed with platinum to
form Sn(IV) [79, 93], reactions which are catalyzed by
the platinum. In the subsequent reductive treatment in
hydrogen or reaction atmospheres, Sn(II) and Sn(0) are
generated again and the latter forms Pt–Sn alloy particles
together with Pt.
B
Treatment with Chlorine
In some regeneration pro-
cedures such as in the Oleﬂex process [52], the catalyst is
treated with chlorine or chlorine-containing compounds.
Such treatments support the formation of oxychloridic
platinum surface compounds and hence the redispersion
of platinum because the greater surface mobility of the
chlorinated species causes redispersion to be much faster
with chlorine than with oxygen. However, chlorination
can enhance acidity and hence increase the formation
of cracked products, isomerization products with educts
>C3 and deactivating coke. Such negative inﬂuences can
be minimized by removing chlorine from the catalyst, for
example by subsequently treating it with steam.
C
Treatment with Hydrogen
Treatments with hydro-
gen serve to transform oxidic or oxychloridic platinum
surface species into highly disperse platinum after oxida-
tive regeneration. In many processes, such as the Uhde
STAR process, a separate reduction step can be dispensed
with. The catalyst is reduced within the reducing reaction
atmosphere of the process itself.
14.6.4
Kinetics and Mechanism
14.6.4.1
Kinetics of Dehydrogenation
Numerous equations have been proposed to describe
the kinetics of alkane dehydrogenation. Generally, ei-
ther simple power law approaches are used or Lang-
muir–Hinshelwood equations or equations of the Lang-
muir–Hinshelwood–Hougen–Watson
(LHHW)
type
that are based on various assumptions about the
mechanisms and their rate-determining steps. Different
kinetic approaches and mechanisms are used for chro-
mia/alumina catalysts on the one hand and platinum/tin
supported catalysts on the other hand. These approaches
will be discussed separately in the following for the two
catalyst systems.
14.6.4.1.1
Chromia/Alumina Catalysts
Although there
have been many investigations of the dehydrogena-
tion of alkanes using chromia/alumina catalysts (e.g.
Refs. [94–98]), no uniform understanding of the underly-
ing mechanisms has been attained. The adsorption of the
alkane is generally viewed as the rate-determining step in
the dehydrogenation of isobutane (e.g. Refs. [94, 95, 99]),
whereas the surface reaction of the adsorbed alkanes, i.e.
the cleavage of the C–H bond, is generally viewed as the
rate-determining step in the dehydrogenation of propane
(e.g. Ref. [96]). In general, the following two mechanisms
are proposed.
A
Mechanism 1
In this mechanism, as proposed,
for example, by Suzuki and Kaneko on the basis of
an investigation of numerous possible mechanisms for
propane dehydrogenation [96], it is assumed that the
alkane is ﬁrst adsorbed on a vacant site on the catalyst
surface, and this is followed by the surface reaction and
desorption of the formed alkene and hydrogen molecules.
CnH2n+2+∗←
−
−
−
−
−
−
→CnH∗
2n+2 adsorption of the alkane
CnH∗
2n+2+∗←
−
−
−
−
−
−
→CnH∗
2n + H∗
2
surface reaction
CnH∗
2n ←
−
−
−
−
−
−
→CnH2n +∗
desorption of the alkene
H2∗←
−
−
−
−
−
−
→H2 +∗
desorption of hydrogen
where ∗= vacant site. All steps in this mechanism are
reversible and the vacant sites are of the same nature.
Either the surface reaction [94, 96] or the adsorption of the
alkane [94] has been considered as the rate-determining
step.
In their investigations of the dehydrogenation of isobu-
tane in a gradientless internal recycle reactor, Zwahlen
and Agnew found that the kinetics of dehydrogenation are
best described by mechanism 1 with an LHHW approach
and the adsorption of isobutane as the rate-determining
step without the competing adsorption of hydrogen [99]:
−rA =
k(pC4H10 −pC4H8pH/K)
(1 + K′pC4H8pH + KC4H8pC4H8)
(4)
where k is a rate-constant, K
the thermodynamic
equilibrium constant, K′ and KC4H8 adsorption constants
and p the partial pressure.
B
Mechanism 2
In the second mechanism, different
adsorption sites are envisaged, i.e. in addition to
chromium ions, oxygen ions are also believed to be
involved in the reaction [48, 94]:
i-C4H10 + Cr−O −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−i-C4H9 · · · Cr−O · · · H
i-C4H9 · · · Cr−O · · · H + Cr−O −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−
i-C4H8 · · · Cr−O · · · H + H · · · Cr−O
i-C4H8 · · · Cr−O · · · H −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−i-C4H8 + Cr−O · · · H
Cr−O · · · H + H · · · Cr−O −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−H2 + 2Cr−O
14.6.4 Kinetics and Mechanism
3217
In this context, i-C4H9 · · ·Cr–O· · ·H is meant to
represent that the alkyl group and the hydrogen atom
are adsorbed on the Cr–O pair.
Based on this mechanism Airaksinen et al. achieved
reasonable agreement between the kinetic modeling and
the experimentalresultsassumingeitherthe adsorptionof
the alkane or the surface reaction as the rate-determining
step [41, 94].
14.6.4.1.2
Platinum and Platinum/Tin Catalysts
Funda-
mental investigations of the dehydrogenation of light
alkanes using Pt were carried out by Biloen et al. [100],
according to whom only one Pt atom is required for
the dehydrogenation reaction (see Section 14.6.3.2). In
their model, the elementary steps in the mechanism of
propane dehydrogenation are the dissociative chemisorp-
tion of propane on Pt, the subsequent splitting of the
second C–H bond with the formation of chemisorbed
propene and the ﬁnal desorption of propene:
C3H8 + H∗−
−
−
→
←
−
−
−C3H∗
7 + H2
C3H∗
7 −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−C3H∗
6H
C3H∗
6H −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−C3H6 + H∗
where ∗= active site.
In a ﬁrst approximation, a kinetic model of propane
dehydrogenation on platinum or platinum/tin catalysts
can be achieved with a simple power law approach [101].
In comprehensive kinetic investigations by Loc and
coworkers [58, 102–105] on the dehydrogenation of
propane and isobutane on Pt/γ -Al2O3 and Pt–Sn/γ -
Al2O3 catalysts, the dissociative adsorption (i.e. the
splitting off of the ﬁrst hydrogen atom) was looked upon
as the rate-determining step. The rate law was described
as follows:
rC3H6 = k
pC3H8γi
pH20.5 + K1pC3H6
(5)
where k is the rate-constant, K1 the adsorption constant
for propene, pi the partial pressure of the gas i and γi a
correction factor for the reverse reaction.
In contrast to the dehydrogenation of propane and
isobutane, the partial pressure of hydrogen did not show
an inhibiting effect on the dehydrogenation of n-butane,
and consequently the hydrogen partial pressure did not
appear in the rate equation [106].
14.6.4.2
Kinetics of Deactivation
The deactivation of the catalyst during dehydrogenation is
mainly associated with the coke deposits on the catalyst.
In the kinetic modeling, this is expressed by an activity
factor  [107]. The dependence of the activity factor on
the mass of coke on the catalyst CC can be described
in various mathematical ways. However, in general the
following representation is accepted:
 = exp(−αCC)
(6)
where α is an adaptable parameter that is often taken as
a constant.
In contrast to earlier studies, Jackson and Stitt [107]
observed in their studies of propane dehydrogenation
with a chromia/alumina catalyst a direct dependence of
the parameter α on temperature:
αi = Qiexp(qi/RT )
(7)
where Qi and qi are constants and qi is positive, R is the
gas constant and T the temperature.
Loc et al. [58] found in their experiments on isobu-
tane dehydrogenation with alumina-supported platinum
or platinum/tin and platinum/indium catalysts two se-
quential phases of coke deposition that can be described
by the following equations:
phase 1:
rI
C =
kCpC4H8
1 + k′
1pH20.5
(8)
phase 2:
rII
C =
k′
CpC4H8 −k′′
CpH2
2C
pC4H8 + k′
1pH20.5 + k′′
1C
(9)
where kC, k′
1, k′
C, k′′
C and k′′
1 are kinetic constants derived
from experiments, C = C −Clim expresses the excess
amount of coke over the amount of coke already deposited
during the ﬁrst phase (Clim, which is the total amount of
coke accumulated on the catalyst at constant rate before
coke accumulation starts to rapidly decrease) and pi is the
partial pressure of the gas i.
In the ﬁrst phase, the coke is deposited on the Pt
centers, according to Loc et al. It then moves on to the
boundaries with the modiﬁer or to the support material,
since coke precursors migrate to these areas. In this phase
the carbon is deposited at a constant rate. In the second
phase, the rate of carbon deposition decreases sharply
since the active sites are already covered. In this phase
coke is mainly deposited on the modiﬁer and the support.
The values of Clim depend on the nature of the modiﬁer.
The highest values of Clim were observed for platinum/tin
and the lowest values for pure platinum. This conﬁrms
that tin (and other modiﬁers) increases the stability of the
catalysts against deactivation by higher amounts of coke
deposit, presumably by facilitating the migration of coke to
References see page 3227
3218
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
the carrier and the promoter and thus preventing decrease
of active platinum surface (see Section 14.6.3.2.3C) [58].
14.6.5
Reactor Concepts
The economics of a dehydrogenation process are strictly
related to the feed, utilities, chemical consumption
and the investment costs. For the commercial success
of a technology, a primary role is also played by its
environmental impact, operating simplicity and existing
references.
In selecting and setting up the reaction system for
the dehydrogenation, the following properties of the
dehydrogenation reaction, as already described above,
must be taken into account:
• the strongly endothermic character of the reaction
• limits due to the thermodynamic equilibrium that
favors high conversion by low (partial) pressures and
high temperatures
• coking of the reaction system and increasing cracking
reactions at high temperatures
• promotion of the reaction by plug ﬂow
• increase in volume of the gas with conversion because
of mole increase
• thermal and thermocyclic stress on the material of
construction.
Furthermore, the catalysts used and their speciﬁc
properties, such as the deactivation rate and the speciﬁc
process parameters, must be taken into account. Since all
these parameters are closely connected to each other,
a large number of different reaction systems, each
coordinated with the particular catalyst and its related
process parameters, were selected and developed for
commercial use. These are described in Section 14.6.6.
The experience of the design engineers and the companies
also had a distinct inﬂuence on selection and design of
the reactor systems [108].
The most important criteria, the strongly endothermic
character of the reaction and the necessary regular
regeneration due to coking of the catalyst are brieﬂy
described in the following.
14.6.5.1
Endothermic Character
14.6.5.1.1
Preheating the Feed and Carrying out the Reac-
tion in an Adiabatic Reaction System
It must be taken
into account that the feed cannot be preheated at an
arbitrarily high temperature, since this leads to intense
cracking and thus to an unacceptable loss of selectivity. In
the adiabatic reactor, the temperature of the reaction gas
is continuously decreasing as a consequence of the en-
dothermic reaction. As a result, the maximum attainable
conversion also decreases, in relation to the thermody-
namic equilibrium, and the result is an approach of the
actually increasing conversion and the decreasing equi-
librium conversion in the reactor. As a result of this
approach, the maximum possible conversion per reactor
is also limited. Therefore, in practice such a reaction sys-
tem requires several reactors in series with preheating of
the feed before each reactor, in order to achieve sufﬁcient
conversion. Figure 5 shows a typical temperature proﬁle
along a series of adiabatic ﬁxed-bed reactors with feed pre-
heating before each reactor, together with the (theoretical)
equilibrium conversions and the actual conversions.
The drawback of such a system is that the rate
of reaction in the reactor decreases because of the
decreasing temperature and the accompanying decrease
950
850
750
650
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Catalyst bed length / %
Temperature / K
70
0
Conversion / %
Temperature profile
Equilibrium
conversion
Actual
conversion
Fig. 5
Temperature proﬁle, equilibrium conversion and actual conversion for adiabatic reactors with feed preheating and intermediate
heating.
14.6.5 Reactor Concepts
3219
in thermodynamic equilibrium conversion. The side-
reactions, on the other hand, are not limited by
thermodynamic equilibria, thus decreasing the product
selectivity. Furthermore, in the upper region of the
reactor, there is a higher local deactivation of the catalyst
by coke deposits, i.e. the catalyst is unevenly stressed,
resulting in a non-uniform coke deposition proﬁle over
the extent of the catalyst bed. As a consequence, over
the course of the reaction cycle, the reaction is shifted
downwards in the catalyst bed. At the end of the cycle, the
reaction rate in the lower region of the reactor is higher
than at the beginning of the cycle [107].
14.6.5.1.2
Carrying Out the Reaction in a Heated Reactor
Typically, the reactor can be heated via the external wall,
e.g. in a tubular reactor. As a result, there is no longer a
limitation of the conversion per reactor. Theoretically, it
is possible to achieve any high conversion in one reactor,
with an almost isothermal or slightly rising temperature
proﬁle, which, however, is naturally limited by the
increase of the cracking reaction at higher temperatures.
A typical temperature proﬁle along a heated ﬁxed-bed
reactor with the (theoretical) equilibrium conversions and
the actual conversions is shown in Fig. 6.
Another advantage lies in the fact that an isothermal or
slightly rising temperature proﬁle has a positive inﬂuence
on the selectivity of the reaction, and an almost even
proﬁle of coke deposits in the catalyst bed is generated.
This in turn has a positive effect on the length of the
operating cycle [107].
A drawback of heating the reactor is the formation
of a radial temperature proﬁle, i.e. there are higher
temperatures in the outer regions of the reactor, causing
increased cracking reactions and coking. In the inner
regions of the reactor, on the other hand, the temperatures
and thus also the equilibrium conversion are lower.
Therefore, in practice, heated reaction systems are built
in the form of tubular reactors, in which the radial
temperature proﬁle is less pronounced.
In heated reactor systems, a special role is played by
reactors with internal heating by means of a parallel,
strongly exothermic reaction, e.g. selective hydrogen
combustion (SHC), that has already been described in
Section 14.6.2.5.
14.6.5.1.3
Preheating the Catalyst and Carrying Out the
Reaction in an Adiabatic Reactor
In this concept, the
catalyst itself and, where needed, admixed inert heat
carriers, are used as a heat source for the reaction.
Because of the endothermic character of the reaction, the
temperature in the catalyst bed decreases over time and
the conversion rate slows down. The earlier approach of
the actual conversion and the thermodynamic equilibrium
conversion over time (in the case of a ﬁxed-bed reactor)
shifts the reaction further to the back end of the catalyst
bed and the conversion actually achieved decreases with
time [109]. Figure 7 depicts typical temperature proﬁles
in a ﬁxed-bed reactor along the catalyst bed during
dehydrogenation over the cycle time.
This mode of operation requires regular heating of
the catalyst bed. The heat content of the catalyst bed
determines the period of the reaction cycle. Because of
the strongly endothermic nature of the reaction, these
periods are typically very short.
14.6.5.2
Regeneration
Because of coking and the resulting deactivation, the
catalyst must be regularly regenerated by burning off
References see page 3227
900
850
800
750
700
650
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
Catalyst bed length / %
Temperature / K
70
Conversion / %
Actual conversion
Equilibrium conversion
Temperature profile
Fig. 6
Temperature proﬁle, equilibrium conversion and actual conversion for externally heated ﬁxed-bed reactors.
3220
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
920
870
820
770
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Catalyst bed length / %
Temperature / K
t0
t1
t2
t3
t4
Fig. 7
Temperature proﬁle for adiabatic reactors with catalyst preheating.
the coke. In addition, some catalysts must be reactivated
by chlorination during the regeneration and/or be pre-
reduced (see Section 14.6.3.2) in order to restore catalytic
activity for the dehydrogenation.
In selecting the reaction system, the time of deactivation
must be taken into account [108]. For the dehydrogena-
tion, the time of deactivation ranges from minutes to
hours. For this reason, various reaction systems are used.
A distinction can be made between continuous and dis-
continuous systems.
14.6.5.2.1
Continuous Systems
The catalyst is moved
through the reactor continuously or semi-continuously
and then transported to an external catalyst regenerator
in which the coke is burned off and the catalyst is
reactivated with the addition of other chemicals, if
necessary. The continuous operation of these systems
results in a constant production rate and in a constant raw
product composition. The deactivation rate of the catalyst
determines the rate of circulation between reactor and
regenerator.
Continuous systems can be designed either as a moving
bed or as a ﬂuidized bed. The moving bed allows
adaptation of the circulation rate during operation to
the actual deactivation of the catalyst (semi-continuous
operation). In both cases, however, relatively costly
systems for the transport of the catalyst between reactors
and regenerators are necessary. The ﬂuidized bed system
can be simpliﬁed by combining reactor and regenerator in
one reactor vessel, either with axial separation of reaction
and regeneration zones into two zones, with one lying
over the other [two-zone ﬂuidized bed reactor (TZFBR)]
or with radial separation into two adjacent zones [internal
circulating ﬂuidized bed reactor (IFCBR)] [110].
The catalyst in continuous systems must have a high
resistance against abrasion in order to limit loss of catalyst.
Nevertheless, in practice continuous or discontinuous
addition of catalyst make-up is always required [108].
In addition, in these systems, there is a danger of
fouling by coke deposits inside the reactors and on their
internals. In practice, this tendency is counteracted by
addition of sulfur and by monitoring the feed for coke
precursors [111].
14.6.5.2.2
Discontinuous Systems
The reaction takes
place in a ﬁxed-bed that is operated periodically, i.e.
regenerated discontinuously. Because of the periodic
mode of operation, generally two or more parallel reactors
are applied, in which regeneration alternates. As a result,
there is no need for expensive systems to transport
the catalyst. Attrition or mechanical degradation of the
catalyst is signiﬁcantly reduced in comparison with
the continuous system and is only caused by thermal
stress [108]. Moreover, in such a system it is advantageous
that fouling through coking in the reactors and on their
internals is avoided, since the reactors and internals
undergo a burning off of the coke deposits during
regeneration [11].
However, it is a drawback that the rate of reaction
decreases during the reaction cycle as a result of increasing
deactivation of the catalyst, which leads to a slowly
changing product composition. The deactivation of the
catalyst determines the length of the cycle. When several
reactors are installed in parallel, it is possible to equalize
the raw product stream through the timing of the cycles
in the various reactors.
Although the catalysts in discontinuous systems are not
subject to the same mechanical stress as in continuous
systems, care must be taken that they are sufﬁciently stable
to minimize mechanical or thermal damage. Otherwise,
this may lead to a signiﬁcant increase in pressure drop and
in some cases even to clogging of the catalyst bed [108].
14.6.6 Commercial Processes
3221
14.6.6
Commercial Processes
Currently propane, n-butane, isobutane and isopentane
are
dehydrogenated
to
their
respective
alkenes
in
commercial plants worldwide. The following technologies
are applied:
• Oleﬂex and Pacol processes (UOP)
• STAR process (Uhde)
• CATOFIN process (ABB Lummus)
• FBD
process
(ﬂuidized
bed
dehydrogenation)
(Snamprogetti-Yarsintez)
In addition, the Linde process (with a BASF catalyst),
that until now has only been tested in a pilot plant, is
commercially available.
Table 1 shows the main characteristics and the catalytic
performance for propane and isobutane dehydrogenation
for the different technologies and Fig. 8 depicts the gen-
eral arrangements for commercially available processes
for light alkane dehydrogenation.
14.6.6.1
UOP Oleﬂex Process
The Oleﬂex process is based on a catalyst consisting
of platinum/tin with an alkali metal promoter on an
alumina support (see Section 14.6.3.2). The reaction
is carried out in a continuously operated moving-bed
reaction system consisting of 3–4 adiabatic radial reactors
connected in series with preheaters and intermediate
heaters and a continuous catalyst regenerator (CCR)
(Fig. 8a) [5]. This reactor design is directly derived from
the UOP Platforming process for gasoline reforming.
The
circulation
time
of
the
catalyst
through
the
reactor–regenerator loop in the Oleﬂex process is
typically 5–10 days [112]. The catalyst ﬂows from top
to bottom through the reactor while the process gas
ﬂows through the reactors radially from inside to the
outside. The temperature of the process gas decreases
steadily in the adiabatic reactor through the endothermic
dehydrogenation reaction as it passes over the catalyst
bed. The maximum conversion in each reactor is limited
by the heat content of the process gas and thus by
the exit temperature of the gas from the reactor (see
Section 14.6.5.1).
The transport of the catalyst from one reactor to the
next and to the CCR is ensured by a lock hopper
system and transfer lines. The lift gas for catalyst
transfer to the reactors is recycled hydrogen that has
the simultaneous function of reducing coke deposits
on the catalyst. In addition, in order to prevent the
formation of soot and thus of fouling in the reactors,
sulfur is injected into the reaction system. Alkenes and
heavy components in the feed lead to increased fouling.
For this reason, the feed composition must be carefully
monitored [111].
Before the ﬁrst reactor, the catalyst is pre-reduced with
the help of recycle hydrogen. Nitrogen is used as the lift
gas for the transfer of the catalyst to the CCR [5]. In the
CCR, the coke deposits on the catalyst are burned off with
air, and the catalyst is then reactivated by chlorination
before being transferred back to the reactors [52].
Whereas earlier generations of the catalyst in the
Oleﬂex process (DeH-6, DeH-8) had a platinum content
of 0.75 wt.%, newer generations (e.g. DeH-14) have a
platinum content of only 0.45 wt.%. The life of the catalyst
has been improved from 1 year (DeH-6) to 3 years (DeH-
12). For the latest generation (DeH-14), a catalyst lifetime
of 4 years is claimed [111–113].
14.6.6.2
Uhde STAR Process
The Uhde STAR (STeam Active Reforming) process
was originally developed by Phillips Petroleum (now
ConocoPhillips). The process and the catalyst were
acquired by Uhde in 1999. After the purchase of the
technology, Uhde improved the STAR process in its
own pilot facility by coupling the dehydrogenation with
the concept of selective hydrogen combustion [2] (see
Section 14.6.2.5).
The STAR catalyst consists of platinum/tin on a
zinc–calcium aluminate support material. The reaction
is carried out in the presence of steam that reduces
the amount of coke deposits on the catalyst and thus
permits longer operating cycles. Additionally, it decreases
the partial pressure of the reactants, resulting in higher
equilibrium conversions and allowing operation at higher
absolute pressures [114].
The reaction system is a cyclically operating ﬁxed-
bed reactor system consisting of a down-ﬂow, externally
heated tubular reactor with an adiabatic reactor connected
in series (see Fig. 8e). The tubular reactor is a top-ﬁred
reformer-type reactor; the heat for the dehydrogenation
is supplied by ﬁring in the furnace chamber. Because of
the top ﬁring, the largest amount of heat is provided
in the upper area of the reactor, where the largest
heat requirement of the endothermic dehydrogenation
reaction exists (see Section 14.6.5.1). Thus an evenly
increasing temperature proﬁle is achieved over the length
of the catalyst bed [2, 114].
The intermediate product from the reformer-type reac-
tor is cooled and conducted into the oxyreactor into which
oxygen and steam are injected through a specially de-
signed oxygen distribution system. Through the selective
conversion of part of the hydrogen from the intermediate
References see page 3227
3222
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
Tab. 1
Main features of commercially available technologies for dehydrogenation of light alkanes
Parameter
UOP Oleﬂex
Uhde STAR process
ABB Lummus CATOFIN
Linde/BASF PDH
Snamprogetti-Yarsintez
FBD
Catalyst
Pt–Sn on alumina
Pt–Sn on zinc/calcium
aluminate
Chromia on alumina
Pt–Sn on zirconia
Chromia on alumina
Reaction system
Fluidized-bed system
consisting of several
radial-ﬂow adiabatic
reactors in series and
an external
regenerator (CCR)
Fixed-bed system
consisting of an
externally ﬁred tubular
reactor and an
adiabatic reactor in
series
Fixed-bed system
consisting of a
number of
axial-ﬂow adiabatic
reactors connected
in series
Fixed-bed system
consisting of three
externally ﬁred tubular
reactors connected in
series
Fluidized-bed system
consisting of a reactor
and a regenerator with
counter-current ﬂow of
catalyst and gas
Main source of heat supply
Preheating of the
starting and
intermediate
products before each
reactor
External ﬁring of the
tubular reactor and
selective hydrogen
combustion in the
adiabatic reactor
Heating the catalyst
during catalyst
regeneration
External ﬁring of the
tubular reactor
Heating the catalyst in the
regenerator
Operating mode
Continuous (5–10 days
catalyst cycle time)
Discontinuous (7 h
operation, 1 h
regeneration)
Discontinuous
(15–30 min
reaction cycle)
Discontinuous (6 h
operation, 3 h
regeneration)
Continuous (5–15 kg
catalyst/kg feed
circulation rate)
Pressure/kPa
200
500
30–50
150
120–150
Temperature/ ◦C
580–650
570–590
560–650
600
530–600
LHSV/m3 liquid feed (m3
catalyst h)−1
4
6
<1
Not available
0.4–2.0
Per-pass conversion of
propane/%
35
40
48–65
50
40
Selectivity for
propene/mol%
89–91
89
88
90
89
Per-pass conversion of
isobutane/%
35
50
50–60
–
50
Selectivity for
isobutene/mol%
91–93
95
88–94
–
91
14.6.6 Commercial Processes
3223
Regeneration
offgas
Raw
product
Air
Purge
Steam
Feed
Fired heater
Fired heater
(b)
Feed
Stripping
gas
Reactor Regenerator
Water
Jet scrubber
Fuel gas
Stripping gas
Air
Regeneration
offgas
Raw product
(c)
BFW
Feed / Steam
Steam
Raw product
Air /
Steam
Reformer
reactors
Regeneration
offgas
(d)
Air
Feed
Steam
Fired heater
Reformer
reactor
Oxy-
reactor
HP steam
BFW
Raw product
(e)
Moving bed
reactors
Feed
Fired
heaters
Catalyst circuit
Raw
product
CCR
Regeneration
offgas
Air
Catalyst
make-up
(a)
Fig. 8
Types of commercial reactors for alkane dehydrogenation: (a) adiabatic moving bed; (b) adiabatic ﬁxed bed; (c) ﬂuidized bed;
(d) ﬁred ﬁxed bed; (e) ﬁred ﬁxed bed and adiabatic ﬁxed bed.
product with the oxygen (SHC), the thermodynamic equi-
librium of the dehydrogenation reaction is shifted towards
higher conversion (see Section 14.6.2.5). This increases
the space–time yield in the process, and thus the total
amount of catalyst is reduced [28].
The oxyreactor is ﬁlled with a single catalyst, i.e. the
STAR catalyst, that catalyzes both the SHC reaction and
the dehydrogenation reaction selectively. In the upper
region of the catalyst bed, the fast SHC reaction produces
a rapid temperature increase followed by a constant
decrease in temperature over the remaining catalyst bed
as a result of the comparatively slow dehydrogenation
reaction.
The operating cycle in the STAR process consists of 7 h
of operation followed by 1 h of regeneration. The regener-
ation of the catalyst is carried out with air and steam. No
further steps for the reactivation and reduction of the cat-
alyst are required. In a typical design, the reaction section
in the STAR process is carried out in two parallel reaction
trains. This means that during a complete 8-h operation
cycle, both trains operate in parallel for 6 h and during
2 h the two trains are alternately regenerated, each for 1 h
while the other is on-stream. The production stream is
equilibrated in a buffer vessel in the downstream plant so
that 100% continuous production of the plant is assured.
No fouling occurs, since the catalyst is regenerated
within the reactors. Due to its particular composition,
the catalyst is highly stable in the presence of oxygen,
steam and other oxygen-containing components at high
temperatures. The lifetime of the catalyst is more than
5 years [2, 114].
14.6.6.3
ABB Lummus CATOFIN Process
The CATOFIN process was developed from the Houdry
CATADIENE process for the production of butadiene
from n-butane. It is based on a catalyst consisting
of
chromia
on
alumina
with
an
alkali
metal
as
promoter [5, 35] (cf. Section 14.6.3.1).
The reaction takes place under vacuum in a reaction
system consisting of 4–8 parallel refractory-lined adiabatic
References see page 3227
3224
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
reactors operating in a cyclic mode (see Fig. 8b) [5]. To
minimize coke deposits, sulfur is injected into the reaction
system. The feed to the reactors is preheated with a charge
heater and the reactor product is conducted to the raw gas
compressor after cooling. During the reaction, the catalyst
bed cools as a result of the endothermic dehydrogenation
reaction, i.e. the heat content of the catalyst bed is the
determining factor for the length of the reaction cycle (cf.
Section 14.6.5.1).
The reaction cycle consists of the following phases:
• an operating time under vacuum of about 10 min
• a steam purging phase
• regeneration with air close to atmospheric pressure
• evacuation of the reactors
• pre-reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen.
Then the new reaction cycle begins. In a reaction system
consisting of eight parallel reactors, there are typically
three reactors in operation, three reactors in regeneration
and two reactors in the purge or evacuation phase [11].
Switching between the phases in the reaction cycle takes
place by automatic sequencing by means of hydraulically
operated fast-acting isolation gate valves that work with a
pressurized inert seal in order to avoid air leaks into the
process gas [5].
The necessary reaction heat for the endothermic
dehydrogenation is provided by the heating of the catalyst
bed during regeneration [12]. In order to provide sufﬁcient
heat for the reaction, the catalyst is diluted in the
beds with inert material that creates additional heat
storage capacity. In addition, if necessary, fuel gas is
added to the regeneration air to be burned and provide
sufﬁcient heating of the catalyst [109]. The reduction of
the catalyst with hydrogen before the start of the new
dehydrogenation cycle increases the activity of the catalyst
for the dehydrogenation and, additionally, preheats the
catalyst [5, 100].
In the usual design of the CATOFIN process, the
regeneration air is conducted through the catalyst beds
in the same ﬂow direction as the process gas. This
produces a decreasing temperature proﬁle over the
extent of the catalyst bed during the operation cycle
(see also Section 14.6.5.1). In an alternative design, the
regeneration air is conducted counter-currently to the
ﬂow of the process gas. This produces, during the course
of the process cycle, a slowly rising temperature proﬁle
across the catalyst bed, which is considered advantageous
for energy utilization, the equilibrium conversion, the
average reactor temperature and uniform utilization of
the catalyst bed. The result of this direction of ﬂow is
increased selectivity, decreased energy input for a given
conversion and improved stability of the catalyst [109].
The catalyst in the CATOFIN process has a lifetime
of 2–3 years. In the dehydrogenation of propane by the
CATOFIN process, up to 7.5 wt.% of C4 components
can be tolerated in the feed. The feed does not need
to be pretreated by hydrogenation since the catalyst
tolerates alkenes. No fouling occurs, because the catalyst
is regularly regenerated within the reactors [109].
14.6.6.4
Linde PDH Process
The Linde PDH process was ﬁrst developed in 1982
on the basis of a BASF chromia/alumina catalyst.
This ﬁrst generation of the process was tested in the
period 1989–90 in a demonstration facility at BASF in
Ludwigshafen, Germany.
In 1996, Linde began a cooperation with Statoil and
Borealis based on a catalyst development by Statoil. This
catalyst consists of platinum as active component on a
hydrotalcite-based support. The following development
goals were established for this cooperation:
• increase of conversion and selectivity
• reduction in coke deposits
• simultaneous gasiﬁcation of the coke deposits in order
to extend the process cycles.
The second generation of the Linde process with the
Statoil catalyst was tested in a pilot plant at the industrial
site in Mongstad, Norway [115]. However, the cooperation
did not lead to commercialization.
The third generation of the process is based on a catalyst
of BASF, consisting of platinum/tin as active components
on a zirconia support [10].
The reaction system in the Linde process consists of
a ﬁxed-bed in an externally heated tubular reactor as
depicted in Fig. 8d. The reactor is a top-heated reformer
type, similar to the main reactor in the Uhde STAR
process. The reaction is carried out almost isothermally
and in a cyclic mode. Three reformers are designed in
parallel, of which two are always in operation while one
is in regeneration. The operating cycle consists of 6 h of
operation followed by 3 h of regeneration. Like the STAR
process, the reaction takes place in the presence of steam,
in order to reduce the formation of coke deposits on the
catalyst. The regeneration of the catalyst is carried out
with air and steam [10]. Before and after regeneration, the
reactors are purged.
14.6.6.5
Snamprogetti-Yarsintez FBD Process
The FBD process (ﬂuidized bed dehydrogenation) of
Snamprogetti-Yarsintez is based on a chromia/alumina
catalyst with an alkali metal promoter. The catalyst used
is microspheroidal with an average diameter of <100 µm
and a density of less than 2000 kg m−3 [13].
14.6.7 Dehydrogenation of Other Alkanes
3225
The reaction system consists of a ﬂuidized-bed reactor
and a regenerator. The catalyst circulates continuously
between reactor and regenerator via transfer lines, as
shown in Fig. 8c. This design of the reaction system
is similar to the former FCC technology (FCC – ﬂuid
catalytic cracking) [5].
The reaction heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation
is provided by heating the catalyst in the regenerator to
>923 K. In order to generate this heat, fuel gas is added to
the regenerator to be burned with air. However, unlike in
the CATOFIN process, the catalyst is not pre-reduced after
regeneration with hydrogen, but directly in the reaction
atmosphere. In the reactor, the catalyst cools to <833 K
as a result of the dehydrogenation reaction [12].
In the reactor, the process gas and the catalyst are
conducted in counter-current ﬂow. The process gas ﬂows
upwards through the reactor. In the lower part of the
reactor and the regenerator, the catalyst is separated from
the hydrocarbons or the regeneration air in a stripping
zone with an appropriate stripping gas, before it leaves
the reactor and the regenerator [13].
To avoid back-mixing, which has a negative effect on the
yield, the ﬂuidized bed is subdivided into several sections
by horizontal bafﬂes with suitable openings. In this way, a
kind of series of continuous stirred-tank reactors (CSTRs)
is created, and a temperature proﬁle with a controlled
increase can be established for the process gas [5].
Entrained catalyst in the process and regeneration gas
is separated by cyclones in the head of the reactor and the
regenerator. The remaining catalyst dust in the process
gas is removed from the gas by a jet scrubber system after
cooling [13].
14.6.7
Dehydrogenation of Other Alkanes
14.6.7.1
Dehydrogenation of Heavy n-Alkanes
The
catalytic
dehydrogenation
of
heavy
n-alkanes
(C10–C14) leads to a family of linear monoalkenes having
the same number of carbon atoms and the double bond
randomly located along the chain. Such alkenes can be
utilized to form linear alkylbenzenes, intermediate chem-
icals for the production of biodegradable detergents, by
catalytic reaction with benzene under acid catalysis (HF
catalysts). During the 1960s, the growing demand for
detergent-range linear monoalkenes opened up attrac-
tive prospects for the development of dehydrogenation
processes. In 1966, a new route for the production of
linear internal monoalkenes for the manufacture of alkyl-
benzenes was announced [116]. Since 1969, UOP has
commercialized the combined PACOL–Olex process for
the dehydrogenation of linear alkanes and selective ex-
traction of the resulting alkenes. Many plants are now in
operation worldwide, with the PACOL process being the
most popular for the catalytic dehydrogenation of heavy
n-alkanes.
From the thermodynamic point of view, the dehydro-
genation process has to overcome the fact that cleavage of
a C–C bond requires less energy (245 kJ mol−1) than that
necessary to cleave a C–H bond (365 kJ mol−1) [117].
Thermal conversion is therefore inappropriate because
cracking reactions are favored over dehydrogenation.
However, catalytic processes allow the reaction to occur
at relatively low temperatures, minimizing the formation
of by-products and reaching selectivities and conversions
that justify the process economics.
In the PACOL process, the reaction is performed in a
ﬁxed-bed reactor working under a wide range of operating
conditions, according to the feedstock and conversion
reached.
The
main
process
parameters
are
temperature
570–820 K, pressure 100–300 kPa, H:C ratio (5–9):1, con-
version 10–15 wt.% and selectivity 90–94 wt.% [118]. The
catalyst is a promoted (Sn, In, Li) Pt on alumina. The low
per-pass conversion implies that the reaction products
must be separated to recover the alkenes and to recycle
the unreacted alkanes to the dehydrogenation unit. To
perform the alkene–alkane separation, UOP employs an
extraction process based on the strong capacity of molec-
ular sieves to adsorb alkenes [119]. Even if the catalyst
is highly selective, formation of some heavy aromatics,
dienes and coke reduces the catalytic activity with time
on-stream and the catalyst has a limited life (about 1 year).
14.6.7.2
Dehydrogenation of Cyclohexane
The dehydrogenation of cyclohexane is the main reaction
taking place during the formation of benzene in the
catalytic reforming of naphtha. Dehydrogenation to
cyclohexene or cyclohexadiene is of interest in the
synthesis of ashless antioxidants, antiwear additives for
lubricants and the manufacture of cyclohexene-derived
polymers [120].
The thermal dehydrogenation has no commercial po-
tential and worthwhile yields of mono- and dicycloalkenes
are only possible by employing catalytic processes.
The catalysts employed are based on the noble metals
(Pt, Rh, Ir, Pd) and the process conditions differ according
to the desired product selectivity [121].
According to the thermodynamic equilibrium, the
operating temperature is 943–1093 K, and the reaction
can be carried out under hydrogen pressure or with
steam, obtaining cyclohexene selectivities in the range
40–50 wt.% and at conversions not higher than 15%. A
wide range of by-products is formed, including benzene.
References see page 3227
3226
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
14.6.8
Future Developments
14.6.8.1
Membrane Technology
A higher conversion rate at lower dehydrogenation
temperatures can be achieved by the use of membrane
reactors. In this concept, hydrogen permeates through
the membrane selectively from the reaction gas and,
in this way, the equilibrium of the dehydrogenation
reaction is continuously shifted in the direction of higher
conversions. Prerequisites for the design of a membrane
reactor for dehydrogenation are good permeability and
selectivity of the material for permeation of hydrogen
and high thermal, mechanical and chemical stability.
Numerous membrane materials have been suggested
for this purpose, among others palladium [122], a
palladium/silver alloy, mesoporous alumina [123] and
various kinds of silica [124–126]. Two studies are brieﬂy
described here.
Weyten et al. [127] studied the application of a packed-
bed catalytic membrane reactor (PBMR) for the dehydro-
genation of propane using a chromia/alumina catalyst
and a ceramic membrane. With this, a substantial in-
crease in propane conversion was achieved, but only at
relatively low space velocities. It was demonstrated that
the moderate permeability and the limited permeation se-
lectivity of hydrogen/propane of the ceramic membrane
signiﬁcantly reduced the effectiveness of the membrane
reactor.
H¨
ollein [128] studied palladium composite membranes
made of dense palladium and palladium/silver layers
on porous microﬁltration membranes consisting of
alumina and sintered metal for the dehydrogenation
of propane, using a chromia/alumina dehydrogenation
catalyst. This brought about a substantial increase in
propane conversion and propene yield. However, it
was observed that the removal of hydrogen resulted
in increased coke formation and hence more rapid
deactivation of the catalyst. Furthermore, under the
conditions of regeneration, the membrane was found
to be insufﬁciently stable.
Both studies show that in addition to the development
of a suitable membrane material with the required
membrane characteristics, the targeted coordination of
the membrane, the selected catalyst and the process
parameters is of decisive importance for the development
of a technical membrane reactor for the dehydrogenation
of alkanes.
14.6.8.2
CO2 as a Diluent
The processes currently applied commercially for the
dehydrogenation of light alkanes dilute the alkane used,
either with hydrogen or with steam, in order to use the
resulting decreased partial pressure of the alkane to shift
the equilibrium in non-oxidative dehydrogenation toward
the alkenes.
If, instead, CO2 is used as the diluent, in addition to
the decrease in partial pressure of the alkane, a further
increase in alkane conversion can be achieved because
CO2 has a mildly oxidizing effect, as shown below for the
reaction of ethane with CO2:
C2H6 + CO2 −
−
−
→C2H4 + CO + H2O(g)
(H ◦
298 = +178.2 kJ mol−1)
(10)
The advantage of using CO2 instead of O2 as the
oxidizing agent is that there is no further oxidation of
already-formed alkene by excess oxidizing agent. This
leads to higher alkene selectivity.
Wang and Zhu [129] surveyed the use of CO2 in the
catalytic dehydrogenation of alkanes and suitable catalyst
systems.
14.6.9
Conclusions and Future Prospects
Until recently, light alkenes were mainly obtained as
by-products of reﬁnery (FCC) or petrochemical (steam
cracking) operations. Since the market growth for light
alkenes, especially for propene, outpaces the availability
of these products from FCC or steam cracking, catalytic
dehydrogenation is enjoying a remarkable renaissance.
Dehydrogenation of light alkanes (mainly C3 and C4) is
a mature process which has been commercially operated
for more than six decades. Nevertheless, ongoing research
activities on both process improvements and catalyst
development have been able to steadily enhance the
proﬁtability of light alkane dehydrogenation.
However, despite this long history of commercial
experience and despite the fact that alkene selectivities for
all commercial processes are fairly high and the catalysts
applied show good activities, signiﬁcant efforts to improve
process conﬁgurations and catalyst formulations are still
being undertaken to further enhance the viability of the
technology, especially to allow larger-scale plants and to
increase the product yield.
With respect to the catalysts, it can be predicted
that currently used catalysts based on chromia and
platinum/tin will continue to play a leading role in the
mid-term future. Concerning process improvements, the
selective removal or combustion of hydrogen will increase
in importance. Oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes
(ODH) is an interesting alternative to equilibrium-limited
alkane dehydrogenation. However, up to now no catalyst
with long-term stability has been developed to enable
the ODH process to be demonstrated on a pilot scale.
Dehydrogenation of light alkanes with CO2 as a mild
References
3227
oxidizing agent is also an interesting ﬁeld of research and
development, but it appears that new process schemes
and catalysts will need to be developed before a ﬁrst
commercial application becomes available.
References
1. Chemiewirtschaft
in
Zahlen,
Verband
der
Chemischen
Industrie e.V. VCI, Frankfurt, 2005, p. 120.
2. M. Heinritz-Adrian,
S. Wenzel,
5th
Russia
and
CIS
Petrochemical
Technology
Conference,
Moscow,
2006,
http://www.europetro.com/epc/.
3. Chemical Economics Handbook, SRI Consulting, Menlo Park,
CA, 2004.
4. S. Zinger, Petr. Technol. Q. 2005, 10(4), 125.
5. M. M. Bhasin,
J. H. McCain,
B. V. Vora,
T. Imai,
P. R. Pujad´
o, Appl. Catal. A: General 2001, 221, 397.
6. L. M. Welch, L. J. Crope, H. F. Christmann, Hydrocarbon
Process. 1978, 57(11), 131.
7. T. Hutson, Jr., R. D. Skinner, R. S. Logan, Hydrocarbon Pro-
cess. 1974, 53(6), 133.
8. P. C. Husen, K. R. Deel, W. D. Peters, Oil Gas J. 1971,
69(August 2), 60.
9. P. R. Pujado, B. V. Vora, Hydrocarbon Process. 1990, 69(3), 65.
10. H. Zimmermann, H. B¨
olt, in Proceedings of the DGMK
Conference ‘‘Oxidation and Functionalization: Classical and Al-
ternative Routes and Sources’’, S. Ernst, E. Gallei, J. A. Lercher,
S. Rossini,
E. Santacesaria
(Eds.),
German
Society
for
Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology (DGMK), Ham-
burg, 2005, p. 35.
11. S. Kantorowicz,
Asia Propylene
and
Derivatives Markets
Conference, Singapore, 2005.
12. D. Sanﬁlippo, I. Miracca, in Proceedings of the DGMK Confer-
ence ‘‘Oxidation and Functionalization: Classical and Alterna-
tive Routes and Sources’’, S. Ernst, E. Gallei, J. A. Lercher,
S. Rossini,
E. Santacesaria
(Eds.),
German
Society
for
Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology (DGMK), Ham-
burg, 2005, p. 7.
13. R. Trotta, D. Sanﬁlippo, Petr. Technoc. Q. 2000, 5(4), 131.
14. T. Imai, US Patent 4 435 607, assigned to UOP, 1984.
15. T. Imai, D.-Y. Jan, European Patent 0 323 115, assigned to
UOP, 1988.
16. R. K. Grasselli, D. L. Stern, J. G. Tsikoyiannis, Appl. Catal. A:
General 1999, 189, 1.
17. R. K. Grasselli, D. L. Stern, J. G. Tsikoyiannis, in Proceedings
of the 12th International Congress on Catalysis, A. Corma,
F. V. Melo, S. Mendioroz, J. L. G. Fierro (Eds.), Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 130, Elsevier, Amsterdam,
2000, p. 773.
18. R. K. Grasselli, D. L. Stern, J. G. Tsikoyiannis, Appl. Catal. A:
General 1999, 189, 9.
19. V. A. Durante, D. E. Resasco, D. W. Darrell, G. L. Haller,
E. L. Coggins, European Patent 0 568 303, assigned to Sun,
1993.
20. P. E. H. Nielsen, P. Lehrmann, European Patent 0 655 431,
assigned to Haldor Topsøe, 1994.
21. T. Iwakura, M. Takiguchi, US Patent 5 994 606, assigned to
Mitsubishi Chemical, 1999.
22. P. A. Agaskar, R. K. Grasselli, J. N. Michaels, P. T. Reisch-
man, D. L. Stern, J. G. Tsikoyiannis, US Patent, 5 527 979,
assigned to Mobil Oil, 1995.
23. C.-H. Lin, K.-C. Lee, B.-Z. Wan, Appl. Catal. A: General 1997,
164, 59.
24. J. G. Tsikoyiannis, D. L. Stern, R. K. Grasselli, J. Catal. 1999,
184, 77.
25. P. A. Agaskar, R. K. Grasselli, J. N. Michaels, P. T. Reisch-
man, D. L. Stern, J. G. Tsikoyiannis, US Patent, 5 563 314,
assigned to Mobil Oil, 1996.
26. A. Stahl, N. J. Blom, J. Perregaard, P. E. H. Nielsen, Euro-
pean Patent 1 044 949, assigned to Haldor Topsøe, 2000.
27. B. Maunders, European Patent 0 658 154, assigned to BP
Chemicals, 1998.
28. N. Thiagarajan, M. Heinritz-Adrian, S. Wenzel, J. Menzel,
German Patent 102 51 135, assigned to Uhde, 2002.
29. R. Lodeng, P. Soraker, European Patent 0 799 169, assigned
to Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap, 1995.
30. T. Imai, D.-Y. Jan, US Patent 4 788 371, assigned to UOP,
1988.
31. D. E. Resasco, G. L. Haller, Catalysis 1994, 11, 379.
32. F. E. Frey, W. F. Huppke, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1933, 25, 54.
33. F. E. Frey, W. F. Huppke, US Patent 2 098 959, assigned to
Phillips Petroleum, 1937.
34. B. M. Weckhuysen, R. A. Schoonheydt, Catal. Today 1999,
51, 223.
35. F. Buonomo,
D. Sanﬁlippo,
F. Triﬁr`
o,
in
Handbook
of
Heterogeneous Catalysis, 1st Ed., Vol. 5, G. Ertl, H. Kn¨
ozinger,
J. Weitkamp (Eds.), VCH, Weinheim, 1997, p. 2140.
36. S. Carr`
a, L. Forni, Catal. Rev. 1971, 5(1), 159.
37. C. Marcilly, B. Delmon, J. Catal. 1972, 24, 336.
38. A. Hakuli, A. Kyt¨
okivi, A. O. I. Krause, Appl. Catal. A: General
2000, 190, 219.
39. A. Kyt¨
okivi,
J. P. Jacobs,
A. Hakuli,
J. Meril¨
ainen,
H. H. Brongersma, J. Catal. 1996, 162, 190.
40. K. Fujimoto, S. Toyashi, in Proceedings of the 7th International
Congress on Catalysis, Part A, T. Seiyama, K. Tanabe (Eds.),
Kodansha, Tokyo, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1981, p. 235.
41. S. Airaksinen, Industrial Chemistry Publication Series, Vol. 19,
Otamedia, Espoo, 2005, 62 pp.
42. A. Hakuli, A. Kyt¨
okivi, A. O. Krause, T. Suntola, J. Catal.
1996, 161, 393.
43. P. R. Sarathy, G. S. Suffridge, Hydrocarbon Process. 1993,
72(1), 89.
44. R. L. Puurunen, B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Catal. 2002, 210, 418.
45. S. de
Rossi,
M. P. Casaletto,
G. Ferraris,
A. Cimino,
G. Minelle, Appl. Catal. A: General 1998, 167, 257.
46. A. Cimino, D. Cordischi, S. De Rossi, G. Ferraris, D. Gazzoli,
V. Indovina, M. Occhiuzzi, M. Valigi, J. Catal. 1991, 127, 744.
47. A. Cimino, D. Cordischi, S. De Rossi, G. Ferraris, D. Gazzoli,
V. Indovina, G. Minelli, M. Occhiuzzi, M. Valigi, J. Catal.
1991, 127, 761.
48. S. De
Rossi,
G. Ferraris,
S. Fremiotti,
A. Cimino,
V. Indovina, Appl. Catal. A: General 1992, 81, 113.
49. S. De Rossi, G. Ferraris, S. Fremiotti, E. Garrone, G. Ghiotti,
M. C. Campa, V. Indovina, J. Catal. 1994, 148, 36.
50. A. Trunschke, D. L. Hoang, J. Radnik, H. Lieske, J. Catal.
2000, 191, 456.
51. V. Ponec, G. C. Bond (Eds.), Catalysis by Metals and Alloys,
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 95, Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 1995, 744 pp.
52. J. C. Bricker, D.-Y. Jan, J. M. Foresman, US Patent 4 914 075,
assigned to UOP, 1990.
53. M. E. Olbrich, US Patent 5 143 888, assigned to Philips
Petroleum, 1992.
54. E. O. Box, Jr., US Patent 3 880 776, assigned to Philips
Petroleum, 1975.
3228
14.6 Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
55. D. Akporiaye, M. Rønnekleiv, P. Hasselgrad, PCT Applica-
tion WO 94/29021, assigned to Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap,
1994.
56. E. Rytter, D. Akporiaye, U. Olsbye, PCT Application WO
99/46039, assigned to Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap, 1999.
57. G. P. Schindler, O. Machhammer, K. Herth, K. J. M¨
uller-
Engel, P. Zehner, German Patent Application 100 47 642,
assigned to BASF, 2000.
58. L. C. Loc, N. A. Gaidai, S. L. Kiperman, in Proceeding of the 9th
International Congress on Catalysis, M. J. Phillips, M. Ternan
(Eds.), Vol. 3, Chemical Institute of Canada, Ottawa, 1988,
p. 1261.
59. R. S. Srinivasan, B. H. Davis, Platinum Met. Rev. 1992, 36,
151.
60. L. Guczi, A. S´
ark´
any, in Catalysis, Vol. 11, Royal Society of
Chemistry, Cambridge, 1994, p. 318.
61. V. Ponec, Appl. Catal. A: General 2001, 222, 31.
62. B. A. Sexton, A. E. Hugues, K. Foger, J. Catal. 1984, 88, 466.
63. H. Lieske, J. V¨
olter, J. Catal. 1984, 90, 96.
64. K. Balakrishnan, J. Schwank, J. Catal. 1991, 127, 287.
65. V. I. Kusnetson, A. S. Belyi, E. N. Yurchenko, M. D. Smoli-
kov, M. T. Protasova, E. V. Zatolonikina, V. K. Duplyakin, J.
Catal. 1986, 99, 159.
66. R. Burch, J. Catal. 1981, 71, 348.
67. Y. X. Li, J. M. Stencel, B. H. Davis, Appl. Catal. 1990, 64, 71.
68. R. Burch, L. C. Garla, J. Catal. 1981, 71, 360.
69. V. Ponec, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 1975, 11, 41.
70. V. Ponec, in Advances in Catalysis, D. D. Eley, H. Pines,
P. B. Weisz (Eds.), Vol. 32, Academic Press, New York, 1983,
p. 149.
71. V. Ponec, W. M. H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 1972, 24, 250.
72. J. H. Sinfelt, J. L. Carter, D. J. C. Yates, J. Catal. 1972, 24, 283.
73. W. M. H. Sachtler, R. A. van Santen, in Advances in Catalysis,
D. D. Eley, H. Pines, P. B. Weisz (Eds.), Vol. 26, Academic
Press, New York, 1977, p. 69.
74. W. M. H. Sachtler, R. A. van Santen, Appl. Surf. Sci. 1979, 3,
121.
75. J. H. Sinfelt, Acc. Chem. Res. 1977, 10, 15.
76. J. K. A. Clarke, Chem. Rev. 1975, 75, 291.
77. M. Boudart,
A. Aldag,
J. E. Benson,
N. A. Dougharty,
C. Harkins Girvin, J. Catal. 1966, 6, 92.
78. M. Boudart, in Advances in Catalysis, D. D. Eley, H. Pines,
P. B. Weisz (Eds.), Vol. 20, Academic Press, New York, 1969,
p. 153.
79. H. Lieske, A. Sarkany, J. V¨
olter, Appl. Catal. 1987, 30, 69.
80. L. Guczi, A. Frennet, V. Ponec, Acta Chim. Hung. 1983, 112,
127.
81. Y. Liu, G. Pan, G. Yang, in Book of Abstracts ot the 210th ACS
National Meeting, Chicago, IL, August 20–24, 1995, Part 2,
PETR. 063.
82. G. Lietz, H. Lieske, H. Spindler, W. Hanke, J. V¨
olter, J. Catal.
1993, 81, 17.
83. N. M. Bursian, S. B. Kogan, N. M. Podkletnova, O. M. Oran-
skaya,
V. Yu. Georgievsky,
G. A. Lastovkin,
E. S. Shpiro,
Kh. M. Minachev, in Proceedings of the 9th International
Congress on Catalysis, M. J. Phillips, M. Ternan (Eds.), Vol. 3,
Chemical Institute of Canada, Ottawa, 1988, p. 1314.
84. T. Donauer, R. Gl¨
aser, J. Weitkamp, in Proceedings of the
DGMK Conference ‘‘Creating Value from Light Alkenes –
Production
and
Conversion’’,
G. Emig,
H.-J. Kr¨
amer,
J. Weitkamp (Eds.), German Society for Petroleum and Coal
Science and Technology (DGMK), Hamburg, 2001, p. 203.
85. M. F. L. Johnson, J. Catal. 1990, 123, 245.
86. M. V. Twigg (Ed.), Catalyst Handbook, 2nd Ed., Manson
Publishing, London, 1989, p. 244.
87. A. Farkas, in Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry,
5th Edn., Vol. A5, VCH, Weinheim, 1986, p. 340.
88. D. Akporiaye, S. F. Jensen, U. Olsbye, F. Rohr, E. Rytter,
M. Rønnekleiv, A. I. Spjelkavik, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2001,
40, 4741.
89. E. Baumgarten, A. Schuck, Appl. Catal. 1988, 37, 247.
90. R. M. J. Fiedorow, S. E. Wanke, J. Catal. 1976, 43, 34.
91. G. I. Straguzzi, H. R. Aduriz, C. E. Gigola, J. Catal. 1980, 66,
171.
92. H. Lieske, G. Lietz, H. Spindler, J. V¨
olter, J. Catal. 1983, 81,
8.
93. B. E. Handy, J. A. Dumesic, R. D. Sherwood, R. T. K. Baker,
J. Catal. 1990, 124, 160.
94. S. M. A. Airaksinen, M. E. Harlin, A. O. I. Krause, Ind. Eng.
Chem. Res. 2002, 41, 5619.
95. J. Happel, K. Kamholz, D. Walsh, V. Strangio, Ind. Eng.
Chem. Fundam. 1973, 12, 263.
96. I. Suzuki, Y. Kaneko, J. Catal. 1977, 47, 239.
97. I. Suzuki, Y. Kaneko, J. Res. Inst. Catal. 1979, 27, 17.
98. J. Masson, B. Delmon, J. Chim. Phys. 1979, 76, 458.
99. A. G. Zwahlen, J. B. Agnew, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1992, 31,
2088.
100. P. Biloen, F. M. Dautzenberg, W. M. H. Sachtler, J. Catal.
1977, 50, 77.
101. A. Baris, Dissertation, University of Trondheim, 1993.
102. L. K. Loc, N. A. Gaidai, S. L. Kiperman, N. M. Podkletnova,
S. B. Kogan, Kinet. Catal. 1988, 29, 989.
103. L. K. Loc, N. A. Gaidai, B. S. Gudkov, M. M. Kostyukovskii,
S. L. Kiperman,
N. M. Podkletnova,
S. B. Kogan,
N. R. Bursian, Kinet. Catal. 1987, 28, 1190.
104. L. K. Loc,
N. A. Gaidai,
S. L. Kiperman,
H. S. Thuoang,
N. M. Podkletnova, S. B. Kogan, Kinet. Catal. 1991, 32, 61.
105. L. K. Loc,
N. A. Gaidai,
B. S. Gudkov,
S. L. Kiperman,
S. B. Kogan, Kinet. Catal. 1986, 27, 1184.
106. L. K. Loc, N. A. Gaidai, S. L. Kiperman, S. B. Kogan, Kinet.
Catal. 1990, 31, 421.
107. S. D. Jackson, E. H. Stitt, Curr. Top. Catal. 2002, 3, 245.
108. J. A. Moulijn, A. E. van Diepen, F. Kapteijn, Appl. Catal. A:
General 2001 212, 3.
109. C. Ercan, R. J. Gartside, Can. J. Chem. Eng. 1996, 74, 626.
110. J. Gasc´
on, C. T´
ellez, J. R. Men´
endez, Chem. Eng. J. 2005, 106,
91.
111. P. Chaiyavech, J. R. Inst. Thailand 2002, 27, 664.
112. J. H. Gregor, J. M. Andersen, T. D. Foley, Pet. Technol. Q.
1998, 3(2), 133.
113. V. Rybkin, 5th Russia and CIS Petrochemical Technology
Conference, Moscow, 2006, http://www.europetro.com/epc/.
114. N. Thiagarajan, U. Ranke, F. Ennenbach, presented at the
European Petrochemical Technology Conference (EPTC),
Prague, 2000.
115. H. V. Boelt, P. M. Fritz, in Proceedings of the ERTC Petrochem-
ical Conference, Amsterdam, 2002, p. 1.
116. H. S. Bloch, Eur. Chem. News 1966, Normal Alkanes Suppl.,
December 2, 47.
117. K. Griesbaum, A. Behr, H.-W. Voges, D. Garbe, G. Collin,
D. Mayer, H. H¨
oke, in Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial
Chemistry, 5th Ed., Vol. A13, VCH, Weinheim, 1989, p. 242.
118. H. S. Bloch, US Patent 3 391 218, assigned to Universal Oil
Products, 1968.
119. D. B. Broughton, R. C. Berg, Chem. Eng. 1970, 77, 86.
120. G. J. J. Jayne, D. R. Woods, J. P. O’Brien, US Patent 4 147
640, assigned to Edwin Cooper and Company, 1979.
14.7.3 By-Products
3229
121. P. T´
et´
enyi, Z. Pa´
al, M. Dobrovolszky, Z. Phys. Chem. N. F.
1976, 102, 267.
122. N. Itoh, Catal. Today 1995, 25, 351.
123. V. T. Zaspalis, W. van Praag, K. Keizer, J. G. van Ommen,
J. R. H. Ross, A. J. Burggraaf, Appl. Catal. 1991, 74, 223.
124. J. C. S. Wu,
H. Sabol,
G. W. Smith,
D. L. Flowers,
P. K. T. Liu, J. Membr. Sci. 1994, 96, 275.
125. T. Ioannides, G. R. Gavalas, J. Membr. Sci. 1993, 77, 207.
126. J. C. S. Wu, D. F. Flowers, P. K. T. Liu, J. Membr. Sci. 1993,
77, 85.
127. H. Weyten, K. Keizer, A. Kinoo, J. Luyten, R. Leysen, AIChE
J. 1997, 43, 1819.
128. V. H¨
ollein, Dissertation, University of Erlangen, 2004.
129. S. Wang, Z. H. Zhu, Energy Fuels 2004, 18, 1126.
14.7
Dehydrogenation of Ethylbenzene
Karl Kochloeﬂand Martin Muhler∗
14.7.1
Introduction
Ethylbenzene dehydrogenation (EBDH) represents an in-
dustrially important, heterogeneously catalyzed reaction.
The main reaction products are styrene and hydrogen:
C6H5CH2CH3 −
−
−
→
←
−
−
−C6H5CH=CH2 + H2
(1)
The ﬁrst attempt to produce styrene by the EBDH was
carried out at I.G. Farbenindustrie (Germany) in 1931 [1].
However, real industrial production started 7 years later
and during World War II reached a production capacity of
about 10 000 t a−1. Promoted ZnO provided 90% styrene
selectivity in isothermal, gas-heated reactors [1, 2].
Prior to World War II, Dow Chemical (USA) started
industrial styrene production with a bauxite catalyst [2].
Later, this material was replaced by MgO−Fe2O3 and
ﬁnally by a catalyst composed of Fe2O3/Cr2O3/K2CO3
(called Shell 105), which dominated the market for many
years [2, 3]. The styrene production capacity of the ﬁve
plants was about 190 000 t a−1 until the end of 1945 [2].
All these plants were equipped with adiabatic reactors
using preheated steam as heat carrier and as diluent for
ethylbenzene (EB).
During the 1960s, when the design of high-capacity
styrene plants began, the original iron oxide catalyst was
improved considerably by the incorporation of different
promoters, such as V, Ce and Mo [3, 4]. The energy crisis
of the 1970s pushed ahead the development of highly
selective catalysts that were also able to operate at lower
H2O : EB molar ratios, e.g. below 11 [4].
∗Corresponding author.
During the past ca. 70 years of industrial styrene produc-
tion, the isothermal, adiabatic and SMART processes have
been developed [3]. In 1993, about 17 × 106 t of styrene
were produced by EBDH and 19 × 106 t in 1996, with
a steadily increasing growth rate [3]. It is estimated that
more than 21 × 106 t were produced in 2003 [5]. About
50% of the styrene produced is converted to polystyrene.
About 15% is copolymerized with butadiene in the fab-
rication of rubber elastomers or different latexes. The
production of styrene–acrylonitrile copolymers consumes
about 27% and, ﬁnally, 11% is combined with unsaturated
polyester resins [6].
Information concerning the development of the styrene
process and the catalysts applied was ﬁrst summarized
by Kearby [2]. Useful information on the laboratory
realization of EBDH and related hydrocarbons is provided
by Reitemeyer [7].
An extensive review entitled ‘‘Iron Oxide Catalysts for
Dehydrogenation of Ethylbenzene in the Presence of
Steam’’ was published by Lee [8] in 1973. More recently,
Williams [4] summarized the past and future trends in
the development of catalysts for EBDH. Finally, a chapter
devoted to ‘‘Styrene’’, its physical and chemical properties
and industrial production, by James and Castor [3], can be
found in Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry.
14.7.2
Thermodynamics
The reversible conversion of EB to styrene and hy-
drogen [Eq. (1)], is highly endothermic: H(873 K) =
124.9 kJ mol−1 [3]. The dependence of the equilibrium
constant K on temperature [2] is given by
ln K = −15 350/T + 16.12
(2)
Because 2 mol of products (H2 + styrene) are formed
from 1 mol of EB, reduced pressure favors the EB
conversion. This can be simply achieved by the addition
of N2 or steam [1–4, 7, 8] (see Section 14.7.4).
Temperatures necessary to reach given EB conversion
at atmospheric and at reduced pressure are given in
Table 1 [2]. Table 2 shows equilibrium EB conversions at
different temperatures at 0.1 bar pressure [2].
14.7.3
By-Products
The main by-products in EBDH are toluene and benzene,
formed by steam dealkylation of EB (Eqs. (3–5) [8]; see
also Section 13.11 on steam reforming):
References see page 3238
