Handbook of Aqueous Solubility Data.
By Samuel
H. Yalkowsky and Yan He (University of Arizona). CRC
Press LLC:
Boca Raton FL. 2003. xii + 1496 pp.
$299.95. ISBN 0-8493-1532-8.
This handbook presents over 16 000 records of solubilities
for more than 4000 organic compounds, including data for
pharmaceuticals, pollutants, nutrients, herbicides, pesticides,
agricultural, industrial, and energy-related compounds. Each
compound is identified by its molecular formula, name and
synonyms, molecular weight, CAS Registry Number, melting
point, and boiling point, if available. A five-point rating system
is also provided for each entry to assess the quality of the
reporting of (1) temperature, (2) purity of solute, (3) equilibration
time/agitation, (4) analysis, and (5) accuracy and/or precision.
References for each entry are included, as are comments from
the authors, when necessary. Three very useful indexes under
the following headings complete the book: Molecular Formula;
Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (RN); and Names
and Synonyms.
JA033578S
10.1021/ja033578s
Fundamentals
of
Molecular
Catalysis.
Current
Methods in Inorganic Chemistry. Volume 3.
Edited
by
Hideo
Kurosawa
(Osaka
University)
and
Akio
Yamamoto (Waseda University). Elsevier: Amsterdam.
2003. xiv + 522 pp. $220.00. ISBN 0-444-50921-6.
According to the editors, organometallic chemistry continues
to play an important and increasing role in organic synthesis
and in the chemistry of polymers and materials. An in-depth
understanding of the underlying principles and assumptions is
necessary in order to develop and rationalize new catalytic
processes. In this detailed treatise, the area of homogeneous
organotransition metal catalysis is presented as a series of
independent yet interconnected reaction steps that, when taken
as a whole, constitute a catalytic cycle. An entire chapter is
devoted to each of these reaction steps, which include ligand
substitution, oxidative addition (polar and nonpolar bonds),
reductive elimination, metathesis, transmetalation, insertion, and
nucleophilic attack on metal-bound ligands. An exhaustive set
of up-to-date references is provided as well. Each chapter is
written by an author(s) well-versed in the area, and the
introductory chapter serves to unite all of these steps and
describe their use in practical applications.
The editors state in the Introduction that the contents of the
book are designed to convey the fundamental aspects of
organometallic chemistry in a manner such that the reader gains
the tools necessary to design, develop, and interpret a catalytic
system. Toward that end, this thesis is addressed in different
ways in the various chapters. The chapters on olefin metathesis
and 1,2-insertion provide very useful mechanistic and theoretical
descriptions that provide insight into the area and are useful to
anyone trying to develop a conceptual understanding of the
topics. The depth of information presented in these chapters is
not found in textbooks on organometallic chemistry and is
difficult to glean from the large body of literature available on
the topic. In contrast, the chapters on activation of polar bonds
and transmetalation are basically catalogs of reactions. Only a
moderate amount of information is presented in terms of
mechanistic understanding, and, as such, these chapters come
off more as detailed literature searches than a review of basic
information. Nonetheless, they do contain more information on
their subject than most reviews and include topics rarely covered
in great detail in textbooks. The remaining chapters fall
somewhere between these two styles. Depending on the reader’s
needs, this spectrum of presentation styles may diminish the
usefulness of the book.
Overall, this volume provides excellent coverage of nearly
every aspect of organometallic chemistry and is presented in a
manner that makes it easy to find information on many subjects.
I believe a scientist well-versed in the field will still find useful
information here; likewise, the scientist interested in organo-
metallic chemistry for his or her own applications (e.g., a
synthetic organic chemist) may also find this book useful.
Although this book is a timely addition to the organometallic
literature, at $220, it is very expensive for an individual to
purchase. It clearly merits addition to a university or industrial
library, however.
David Tellers, Merck & Co., Inc.
JA033574N
10.1021/ja033574n
Hydrocarbon Chemistry, Second Edition. By George
A. Olah (Loker Hydrocarbon Research Institute, Uni-
versity of Southern California, Los Angeles) and A
Ä rpa
´d
Molna
´r (University of Szeged, Hungary). J. Wiley & Sons,
Inc.: Hoboken, NJ. 2003. xxiv + 871 pp. $150.00. ISBN
0-471-41782-3.
The second edition of this classic treatise by Olah and Molna
´r
brings the reader up-to-date on developments in the organic
chemistry of hydrocarbons from 1994, when the first edition
was published, through 2001. The presentation follows the
general format of the first edition, in which each hydrocarbon
transformation, including isomerization, addition, alkylation,
carbonylation, acylation, oxidation/oxygenation, heterosubsti-
tution, reduction/hydrogenation, metathesis, and oligo/polym-
erization, is discussed from the point of view of reactivity,
selectivity, stereochemistry, and mechanisms, together with
industrial (petrochemical) applications of various alkanes,
olefins/acetylenes, and arenes. Each subject is extensively anno-
tated with a comprehensive subject index, which will enable
the interested reader to quickly gain valuable access to the
Unsigned book reviews are by the Book Review Editor.
10.1021/ja033578s CCC: $25.00 © 2003 American Chemical Society
J. AM. CHEM. SOC. 2003, 125, 13619-13622
9 13619
current literature on a particular hydrocarbon transformation.
The inclusion of the latest emerging technologies of combina-
torial synthesis, fluorous catalysis, solvent-free/green chemistry,
and the utilization of carbon dioxide largely within the last seven
years also accounts for the substantial increase in the number
of pages as compared to the first edition and ensures that
Hydrocarbon Chemistry will be a continuing first-source of vital
information for this core component of contemporary organic
chemistry.
Jay K. Kochi, UniVersity of Houston
JA033567Z
10.1021/ja033567z
Interfacial
Supramolecular
Assemblies.
By
Johannes G. Vos, Robert J. Forster (Dublin University),
and Tia E. Keyes (Dublin Institute of Technology). John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.:
Chichester. 2003. xi + 317 pp.
$195.00. ISBN 0-471-49071-7.
The design and synthesis of novel supramolecular assemblies
of suitably tailored (electroactive) organic, organometallic, and
biomolecules are being developed at an unabated pace. Electron
transfer and energy transfer form the fundamental basis for the
(photo)conductivity, ferromagnetism, and nonlinear optical
response in various assembled materials and thus undoubtedly
will play a critical role in the creation of modern interfacial
supramolecular assemblies in the emerging area of molecular
electronics and nanotechnology. Accordingly, the time is ripe
for a book to emerge that utilizes a simplified approach to
describe the self-assembly of these electroactive materials on a
molecular level on various surfaces, and this contribution does
just that. It also includes discussion of the characterization of
these materials and techniques for exploring their optoelectronic
properties, and at the same time allows the reader to develop a
fundamental understanding of the processes of electron and
energy transfer in such assemblies.
In the introductory chapters, the book establishes the theoreti-
cal background for electron transfer and energy transfer
processes in an understandable way and also includes leading
references for more advanced readers. A brief description of
various modern techniques, for example, scanning probe
microscopy, scanning electrochemical microscopy, various
voltammetric methods, luminescence spectroscopy, Raman
spectroscopy, and time-resolved spectroscopic techniques, etc.,
for the characterization of interfacial supramolecular assemblies
follows with appropriate references. Later chapters include
discussions of the fabrication of self-assembled monolayers, thin
polymerfilms,biomimeticassemblies,etc.,onvarioussurfacessoften
with examples from recent literaturesas well as electron and
energy transfer dynamics on the molecular level in these
assembled structures. The final chapters cover the hybrid
systems in which semiconductor surfaces such as TiO2 are
modified with various organic and organometallic derivatives
for the preparation of nanoscale molecular devices. Directions
for future research in such areas as diverse as solar energy
storage, nanotechnology, and biosystems and material science
using interfacial supramolecular assemblies are also provided.
Most of the chapters in the book are presented in a systematic
fashion and include leading references that are fairly up-to-date.
This book is well written and can serve as a textbook for a
graduate level course in the area of electron transfer and energy
transfer processes for the development of modern optoelectronic
devices; it can also be used as a source of leading references
for the practitioner in this ever-evolving area of research. In
summary, I highly recommend this book and strongly believe
that it will have great practical utility for students and
practitioners in the areas of nanoscience, nanotechnology,
electron transfer, and energy transfer processes.
Rajendra Rathore, Marquette UniVersity
JA033539G
10.1021/ja033539g
Synthetic Methods in Step-Growth Polymers. Edited
by Martin E. Rogers (Luna Innovations, Blacksburg, VA)
and Timothy E. Long (Virginia Tech). J. Wiley and
Sons, Inc.:
Hoboken. 2003. xii + 606 pp. $129.95.
ISBN 0-471-38769-X.
This is an up-to-date review of synthetic methods in step-
growth polymers. Although from a scientific standpoint these
polymers are a relatively mature subset in the field, this book
serves the very valuable function of summarizing the present
status of the various synthetic approaches to them. The chapters
are written by experts known worldwide with respect to the
topics at hand. Following an introduction to the title subject,
the families of polymers reviewed include polyesters, poly-
amides, polyurethanes, polyureas, polyimides, and other high-
temperature polymers, poly(arylene ether)s, phenolic resins, and
networks. Two significant chapters cover nontraditional step-
growth polymerization-ADMET and transition metal coupling,
and the final chapter deals with the important subject of
depolymerization and recycling. The inclusion of these last three
chapters reflects the current active interest in this area.
Each of the chapters has many up-to-date references, making
it easy for the reader who has a specific interest to research the
topic further. Useful in many, but not all, of the chapters are
sections dealing with analytical methods applicable to these
polymer systems as well as specific examples of detailed
synthetic procedures.
This book definitely fills a need for practicing polymer
chemists and is the kind of reference that they should have at
their desk. It also would be a useful textbook for a course on
polymer synthesis. The editors have accomplished their goal
of producing a textbook that will “... serve as a long-standing
resource for fundamental concepts in step-growth polymerization
processes.”
Eli M. Pearce, Polytechnic UniVersity
JA033557Y
10.1021/ja033557y
The Chemistry of Organic Germanium, Tin and Lead
Compounds, Volume 2. Parts 1-2.
Edited by Zvi
Rappoport (The Hebrew University, Jerusalem). John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.:
Chichester. 2002. xl + 1912 pp.
$1510.00. ISBN 0-471-49738-X.
K. M. Mackey, in the first volume of this work, published in
1995, stated that there is “a rich chemistry of each individual
B O O K
R E V I E W S
13620
J. AM. CHEM. SOC. 9 VOL. 125, NO. 44, 2003
element, a subtly varying relationship between them, and
sufficient unexpected and at present unique behavior to indicate
that further development will be exciting and complex.” The
present volume contains many chapters on topics not included
in the 1995 edition, with updates to the literature up to 2001.
Coverage in this volume is considerably enhanced over Volume
1, both in the topics chosen and in the expertise of the authors;
that is, most of the current senior authors have been major
contributors to the areas they are reviewing.
The first chapter, by Voronkov and Abzaeva, is an historical
account of the evolution of organogermanium, -tin, and -lead
chemistry, and its 130 pages are a catalog of early contributions
to the field. Rappoport in his forward pointed out that articles
in Russian were previously not available to non-Russian readers
and that this lack has now been remedied through citations in
Chemical Abstracts and other sources. There are 1412 references
in the first chapter, although coverage is somewhat sparse after
1970 and some more recent areas receive scant attention.
In Chapter 2, Voronkov and Egorochkin describe the
similarities and differences of organic compounds of Ge, Sn,
and Pb and present a point of view based largely on Russian
work that is quite distinctive. The picture presented in assigning
a prominent role to d-orbitals in covalent bonding differs
somewhat from the models employed by many main-group
chemists. Regrettably, the scarcity of references from the past
decade has led the authors to overlook the existence of persistent
molecules containing divalent heavy atoms in group 14.
This chapter is followed by Ganzer, Hartmann, and Frenking’s
clear summary of the modern theoretical methods employed
using organic germanium, tin, and lead compounds. It is up-
to-date, as are all succeeding chapters. Combined experimental-
theoretical investigations are well represented and signal a wave
of the future for this type of approach.
In the next three chapters, respectively, Klinkhammer reviews
recent advances in structural chemistry, concentrating on
divalent and multiply bonded compounds, Riveros and Takash-
ima offer a succinct description of the mass spectrometry and
gas-phase chemistry of Ge, Sn, and Pb species, and Marsmann
and Uhlig cover advances in Ge, Sn, and Pb NMR spectroscopy,
a topic that received scant attention in Volume 1. This last
chapter includes tables of 73Ge, 119Sn, and 207Pb NMR data
culled from 443 references dating from 1995 to 2000.
In Chapter 7, Riena
¨cker and Klapo
¨tke review the acidity,
complexing, basicity, and H-bonding of organic Ge, Sn, and
Pb compounds, updating the 1995 contribution by the latter
author. The focus here is on synthesis, reactions, and molecular
structure rather than on mechanisms, spectroscopic properties,
and applications.
The succeeding chapter by Charton, entitled “Structural
Effects on Germanium, Tin and Lead Compounds”, updates his
1995 contribution. A proponent of structure-property quantita-
tive relationships, Charton employs electrical effect substituent
constants, steric effect parameters, and intermolecular force
substituent constants to correlate and predict a variety of
properties. Agreement between observed and calculated values
is often quite good, so these relationships have some predictive
value, but their claimed explicatory function has not, in my view,
been demonstrated.
A distinctive contribution is Chapter 9, “Radical Reaction
Mechanisms of and at Organic Germanium, Tin and Lead” by
Taraban, Volkova, Kruppa, and Leshina. The use of chemically
induced dynamic nuclear polarization signals and magnetic field
effects on product ratios to elucidate reaction mechanisms is
described. Even if a few of the mechanistic conclusions
presented are not entirely convincing, the authors have suc-
ceeded in their goal of attracting the attention of the organo-
metallic community to the options offered by “spin chemistry”
methods.
Zharov and Michl summarize the investigation of R3M+
cations (M ) Ge, Sn, Pb) in the next chapter. Despite
considerable recent progress, the authors point out that the
characterization of these cations appears to be even more
challenging than that of silyl cations due to the weaker and
longer bonds to the carbon atom in the heavier examples of the
species, R3M+.
In Chapter 11, Riviere, Castel, and Riviere-Baudet discuss
the preparation, spectroscopy, structure, and reactivity of alkali-
and alkaline earth metal-14 compounds, and in Chapter 12,
Boganov, Egorov, Faustov, and Nefedov review spectroscopic
and theoretical studies of divalent Ge, Sn, and Pb compounds,
including the experiments that produced them and their inter-
pretation. In the latter chapter, the characterization of weak
interactions of heavier carbene analogues in solution, their
preparation in triplet ground electronic states, the determination
of their singlet-triplet splittings, the reactivity of their triplet
states, and the development of new precursors for these
analogues of carbenes and silylenes are cited as important
problems remaining to be solved.
Tokitoh and Okazaki review multiply bonded Ge, Sn, and
Pb compounds in Chapter 13. The lack of heavy ketones
R2MdO (M ) Ge, Sn, Pb) and “heavy” aromatics, that is,
benzene rings containing from one to six Ge, Sn, or Pb atoms,
is noted by the authors. In the following chapter, Lee and
Sekiguchi offer scope for future research on unsaturated three-
membered rings of the heavier group 14 elements, since virtually
none of the mechanisms for the formation or reactions of these
molecules is known. Cage compounds of the heavier group 14
elements are covered in Chapter 15, which is written by these
same two authors. The variation in the strain energies in the
series of C, Si, Ge, and Sn tetrahedranes is quite different from
that of the corresponding cubanes and prismanes and can be
rationalized by the decrease in hybridization for the heavier
elements.
Chapter 16 is a long contribution of 276 pages, 1281
references, and 593 numbered structures in which Baukov and
Tandura summarize a burgeoning field: the synthesis, structure,
and reactions of hypervalent Ge, Sn, and Pb compounds. In
Chapter 17, Sharma, Haiduc, and Pannell discuss transition metal
complexes of Ge, Sn, and Pb, focusing on their synthesis and
characterization and including a section on the use of 207Pb NMR
spectroscopy to study transition metal-lead bonds in solution.
Fouquet has authored a tightly constructed essay on synthetic
applications of organic Ge, Sn, and Pb compounds in the next
chapter, although the focus here is almost entirely on the
chemistry of tin compounds. Some of the topics covered include
nucleophilic addition, metal-catalyzed coupling reactions, free
radical reactions, transmetalations, and substitution reactions.
Chapter 19 on the synthetic uses of R3MH (M ) Ge, Sn, Pb)
by Carland and Schiesser is a crisp review of the free-radical
chemistry of tin-based chain-carrying reagents, along with a bit
B O O K
R E V I E W S
J. AM. CHEM. SOC. 9 VOL. 125, NO. 44, 2003
13621
of germanium chemistry. The vast majority of the 865 references
are from the 1990s, with many from 2000.
In the following chapter, Kolesnikov, Tandura, and Nefedov
briefly describe trichlorogermane as a new superacid; its Ho
value is estimated to be -13.0, similar to that of perchloric
acid! Chapter 21 by Long and Pryce covers the photochemistry
of the organometallic compounds of Ge, Sn, and Pb. The authors
note that the photochemistry of the heavier group 14 organo-
metallic compounds is significantly different from that of their
organosilicon cousins, but the coverage of the topic seems a
bit thin. In contrast, the next chapter by Jurkschat and Mehring
on organometallic polymers of Ge, Sn, and Pb is a substantial
overview of materials prepared largely during the past half
decade and includes synthetic routes, structures, and structure-
property relationships. The remaining two chapters are updates
of contributions to the 1995 volume on the biological activities
of organogermanium (by Lukevics and Ignatovich) and orga-
notin and organolead compounds (by Lukevics and Pudova).
All in all, this volume presents a coherent picture of the
chemistry of organogermanium, -tin, and -lead compounds,
whereas the 1995 work is more fragmentary and can now be
regarded as a “special topics” supplement to its 2002 successor.
One feature that would have enhanced the value of these re-
views would be if more of the authors had compared the
behavior of these compounds with the corresponding organo-
silicons. Nonetheless, I believe chemistry libraries of the first
rank should acquire this volume, despite a cost so high that
private purchase is precluded. Given the price and the fact that
these books will only be found in libraries where they will
receive rough use, it is aggravating that the sturdy cloth covers
of the 1995 volume have been replaced by flimsy paper-covered
boards.
Peter P. Gaspar, Washington UniVersity
JA033558Q
10.1021/ja033558q
B O O K
R E V I E W S
13622
J. AM. CHEM. SOC. 9 VOL. 125, NO. 44, 2003
