<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Propylene as a basic chemical raw material has been extensively applied to produce a plenty of downstream products (e.g., polypropylene, propylene oxide and acrylonitrile, etc.) [1] . Till now, the productivity of propylene practiced by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes derived from naphtha and crude oil can no longer meet the ever-growing demand [2] . In addition, not only high energy-consuming is required, but also the emissions of CO2 and NOx contaminants are increased significantly during the foregoing two processes. In such a case, more energy efficient and environmental-friendly benign processes, such as methanol-to-olefins [3] and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) [4] ,[5] ,[6] , etc., for propylene production are desirable.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is the most promising method for propylene production due to its high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and ability to address the challenges of conventional production methods. PDH uses propane as a feedstock, which is abundant and readily available, unlike naphtha and crude oil used in traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. PDH is more energy-efficient and produces less CO2 and NOx emissions compared to these conventional methods. Moreover, PDH has a higher product selectivity for propylene, making it an attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for this important chemical raw material. PDH specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is more abundant and can be derived from natural gas, thereby improving feedstock availability. The process is also more efficient in terms of energy consumption and produces fewer emissions, making it a more sustainable option. Additionally, PDH offers higher product selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, which often produce a range of hydrocarbons. PDH is considered the most promising method for propylene production due to its ability to address the challenges faced by conventional production methods. PDH specifically tackles issues related to feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods that rely on steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses propane as a feedstock, which is more widely available and can be sourced from natural gas. This makes PDH less dependent on the availability of oil-based feedstocks. In terms of process efficiency, PDH is more energy-efficient compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, as it requires less energy input. Additionally, PDH produces less CO2 and NOx emissions, making it a more environmentally friendly process. Furthermore, PDH offers higher product selectivity for propylene, as it directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, unlike the more complex and less selective traditional methods.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          丙烷直接脱氢（PDH）技术是生产丙烯最有前景的方法，因为它具有高效率、环保性，并能解决传统生产方法面临的挑战。PDH使用丙烷作为原料，与传统蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂化工艺中使用的石脑油和原油相比，丙烷更加丰富且易于获得。PDH比传统方法更节能，产生的二氧化碳和氮氧化物排放也更少。此外，PDH对丙烯的产物选择性更高，使其成为满足全球对这种重要化工原料日益增长需求的有吸引力的替代方案。PDH通过使用丙烷作为原料，具体解决了传统方法的挑战，丙烷更丰富，可从天然气中获得，从而提高了原料的可用性。该过程在能源消耗方面也更有效率，产生的排放更少，使其成为一个更可持续的选择。此外，PDH在产品选择性方面为丙烯提供了更高的选择性，而传统方法通常会产生一系列的烃类。丙烷直接脱氢(PDH)技术是生产丙烯最有前景的方法，因为它在解决传统生产方法面临的挑战方面具有优势。传统方法，如蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂化，依赖于石脑油和原油，无法满足丙烯日益增长的需求。这些方法的特点是能源消耗高，二氧化碳和氮氧化物污染物的排放量显著。相比之下，PDH是一种更节能、更环保的工艺，可以从丙烷这种容易获得的原料中生产丙烯。该工艺不仅降低了能源消耗，还减少了污染物的排放，使其成为生产丙烯更可持续和可行的选择。丙烷直接脱氢(PDH)技术被认为是生产丙烯最有前景的方法，因为它能够解决传统生产方法面临的挑战。PDH特别解决了与原料可用性、过程效率和产品选择性相关的问题。与依赖于从石脑油和原油进行蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂化的传统方法不同，PDH使用丙烷作为原料，这更广泛可用，可以从天然气中获得。这使得PDH对基于石油的原料的可用性依赖性较小。在过程效率方面，PDH比蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂化更节能，因为它需要较少的能量输入。此外，PDH产生的二氧化碳和氮氧化物排放量较少，使其成为更环保的过程。此外，PDH为丙烯提供了更高的产品选择性，因为它直接将丙烷转化为丙烯，副产品较少，与更复杂、选择性较低的传统方法不同。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
