<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, include high energy consumption, high capital costs, and the production of a wide range of co-products, which can lead to market saturation and reduced profitability. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a more energy-efficient and selective process for propylene production. However, ODHP presents its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection. Oxygen is an attractive oxidant for ODHP due to its ability to lower the reaction temperature to around 400°C and make the dehydrogenation reaction exothermic. However, new challenges arise as overoxidation of the hydrocarbons in the feed must be avoided to maintain high olefin selectivity. CO2, being a much milder oxidant, can effectively consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions, although it is not reactive enough to oxidize the hydrocarbons in the reaction mixture. However, much less heat is formed when CO2 is used, so the dehydrogenation reaction remains endothermic. The cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse watergas shift reaction. On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2. Finally, CO2 competitively adsorbs on the surface, specifically on the basic sites of the catalyst materials, which can negatively affect their performance.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.当前丙烯生产方法，如蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂解，主要面临高能耗、高资本成本以及副产品种类繁多的挑战，这可能导致市场饱和和盈利能力下降。丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)通过提供更节能和选择性的丙烯生产过程来解决这些问题。然而，ODHP在氧化剂选择方面具有自身的一系列优势和局限性。氧气作为ODHP的氧化剂，由于其能够将反应温度降低至约400°C，并使脱氢反应成为放热反应，因此具有吸引力。然而，新的挑战也随之产生，必须避免原料中烃类的过度氧化，以保持高烯烃选择性。二氧化碳作为一种温和的氧化剂，可以在脱氢条件下有效地消耗H2，尽管它不足以氧化反应混合物中的烃类。然而，当使用二氧化碳时，形成的热量要少得多，因此脱氢反应仍然是吸热的。二氧化碳的共给可能会导致额外的焦炭沉积，这是由于逆向水煤气变换反应导致的CO增加和H2分压降低。另一方面，焦炭可以通过二氧化碳气化。最后，二氧化碳在表面上竞争性吸附，特别是催化剂材料上的碱性位点，这可能对它们的性能产生负面影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
