<quotes>
[1] "Hierarchical zeolites can be prepared by partial crystallization of mesoporous molecular sieves such as MCM-41 in the presence of appropriate microporous structure-directing agents."
[2] "The synthetic approach of partial crystallization of ordered mesoporous silicates was firstly reported by Jansen et al. (225)"
[3] "After the ion exchange with tetrapropyl ammonium cations (TPA+), hexagonally ordered mesoporous silica partially crystallized in glycerol medium to give the formation of mesoporous materials containing very small protozeolitic or tectosilicate structures within the mesopore walls."
[4] "A hexagonally ordered mesoporous silica MCM-41 was firstly self-assembled from the initial synthesis gel containing the mesopore template and conventional zeolite synthesis components."
[5] "By this method, both SBA-15/ZSM-5 (228) and SBA-15/TS-1 (229) were obtained."
[6] "Ideally, a hierarchically porous catalyst should possess both macropores and mesopores of uniform pore size within the macropore walls which in turn need to be constructed from tunable microporous zeolite units."
[7] "Attempts were made previously to transform the amorphous silica skeleton into a crystalline zeolite system through the dry-gel conversion process."
[8] "The micropores were from Silicalite-1, and the mesopores and macropores were formed within macroporous silica gel."
[9] "The macropore channeled structure was preserved owing to the presence of glycerol liquid in the macrochannels."
[10] "The synthesis of micro-meso-macroporous materials with a whole zeolitic architecture by using this novel glycerol-assisted quasi-solid-state crystallization (QSSC) process is not limited to the synthesis of only hierarchically micro-meso-macroporous TS-1 zeolite but has been extended to the synthesis of micro-meso-macroporous zeolites with different crystalline frameworks, such as zeolite ZSM-5 (Figure 15D,E), (234) Beta (Figure 15F), (235) and Zr-Silicalite-1 (Figure 15G). (242)"
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Hierarchical zeolites combine micropores and mesopores/macropores by partial crystallization of mesoporous molecular sieves such as MCM-41 in the presence of appropriate microporous structure-directing agents. The synthetic approach of partial crystallization was firstly reported by Jansen et al. Hexagonally ordered mesoporous silica partially crystallized in glycerol medium to form mesoporous materials containing small protozeolitic or tectosilicate structures within the mesopore walls. A hexagonally ordered mesoporous silica MCM-41 was self-assembled from the initial synthesis gel containing the mesopore template and conventional zeolite synthesis components. The macropore channeled structure was preserved due to the presence of glycerol liquid in the macrochannels. The synthesis of micro-meso-macroporous zeolites has been extended beyond TS-1 zeolite to include zeolites like ZSM-5, Beta, and Zr-Silicalite-1.

These hierarchical zeolites improve the performance of PDH reactions by enhancing the accessibility of reactants to and the escape of products from the catalytic active sites. The presence of mesopores and macropores reduces the diffusion path of reactants, increases the accessibility of reactants to the zeolite surface, and provides a faster pathway for product release. This leads to an increased reactant conversion and product selectivity, as well as an extended lifetime of the catalyst. The hierarchical porosity in zeolites accelerates mass transport, which is crucial for the performance of PDH reactions, especially when dealing with bulky molecules.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
层状沸石通过在微孔分子筛（如MCM-41）的存在下部分结晶，结合微孔和介孔/大孔来实现组合。Jansen等人的合成方法首次报道了这一过程。六角形有序介孔硅在甘油介质中部分结晶形成包含介孔壁内小型原沸石或二氧化硅结构的多孔材料。六角形有序介孔硅MCM-41从初始合成胶体中自组装，其中包含介孔模板和常规沸石合成成分。由于宏观通道中存在甘油液体，宏观通道结构得以保存。层状微介大孔沸石的合成已扩展到TS-1沸石之外，包括ZSM-5、Beta和Zr-Silicalite-1等沸石。

这些层状沸石通过增强反应物到达和产物释放的活性位点，提高了PDH反应的性能。介孔和大孔的存在减少了反应物的扩散路径，增加了对沸石表面的反应物访问性，并提供了更快的产品释放途径。这导致了反应物转化率的提高和产物选择性的增加，以及催化剂寿命的延长。层状沸石的层次孔隙加速了物质传输，对于处理大分子的PDH反应尤为重要。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
