<quotes>

[1] "The use of alternative oxidants for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising strategy to suppress the facile overoxidation to COx that occurs with O2. Gaseous disulfur (S2) represents a thermodynamically softer oxidant that has been underexplored and yet offers a potential route to more selective propylene formation."
[2] "For a group of 6 metal sulfide catalysts, apparent activation energies for propylene formation range from 72-134 kJ/mol and parallel the corresponding catalyst XPS sulfur binding energies, indicating that M-S bond strength plays a key role in SODHP activity."
[3] "Kinetic data over a sulfided ZrO2 catalyst indicate a rate law which is first-order in propane and zero-order in sulfur, suggesting that SODHP may occur via a mechanism analogous to the Mars van Krevelen cycle of traditional ODHP."
[4] "The present results should motivate further studies of SODHP as a route to the selective and efficient oxidative production of propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The use of alternative oxidants, such as gaseous disulfur (S2), for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising strategy to suppress the overoxidation to COx that occurs with O2. S2 is a thermodynamically softer oxidant that offers a potential route to more selective propylene formation. For a group of 6 metal sulfide catalysts, the apparent activation energies for propylene formation range from 72-134 kJ/mol and parallel the corresponding catalyst XPS sulfur binding energies, indicating that M-S bond strength plays a key role in SODHP activity. Kinetic data over a sulfided ZrO2 catalyst indicate a rate law which is first-order in propane and zero-order in sulfur, suggesting that SODHP may occur via a mechanism analogous to the Mars van Krevelen cycle of traditional ODHP. The present results should motivate further studies of SODHP as a route to the selective and efficient oxidative production of propylene. However, the persistent challenges in this field include the corrosiveness of the reaction environment and the inherent reaction properties that favor overoxidation. Key areas for future research and development include strategies for improving C-H bond activation, enhancing catalyst regenerability, and renovating reaction systems to optimize ODHP processes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.使用替代氧化剂,如二硫化物气体(S2),进行丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)是一种有前景的策略,可以抑制使用O2时容易发生的过度氧化至COx。S2是一种热力学上较软的氧化剂,它提供了一条可能的途径,以更选择性地形成丙烯。对于一组6种金属硫化物催化剂,丙烯形成的表观活化能范围为72-134 kJ/mol,与相应的催化剂XPS硫结合能平行,表明M-S键强度在SODHP活性中起关键作用。在硫化ZrO2催化剂上的动力学数据表明,反应速率定律在丙烷中为一级,在硫中为零级,表明SODHP可能通过类似于传统ODHP的Mars van Krevelen循环的机制发生。目前的结果应该会激发对SODHP作为选择性和高效氧化生产丙烯的途径的进一步研究。然而,该领域持续存在的挑战包括反应环境的腐蚀性和固有的反应性质,这些性质倾向于过度氧化。未来研究和开发的关键领域包括改进C-H键活化的策略,增强催化剂的再生性,以及改造反应系统以优化ODHP过程。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
