<quotes>

[1] "The catalytic properties of Al2O3-supported vanadia with a wide range of VOx surface density (1.434.2 V/nm2) and structure were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane."
[2] "Propene formation rates (per V atom) are approximately eight times higher than ethene formation rates at a given reaction temperature, but the apparent ODH activation energies (E1) are similar for the two reactants and relatively insensitive to vanadia surface density."
[3] "The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly with vanadia surface density for propane, suggesting that isolated structures prevalent at low surface densities are slightly more selective for alkane dehydrogenation reactions."
[4] "The ratio of k3/k1 decreases markedly with increasing reaction temperature for both ethane and propane ODH."
[5] "The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K)."
[6] "The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces."
[7] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
[8] "The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies."
[9] "Here, we report a detailed kinetic analysis of ethane ODH reactions on VOx/Al2O3 samples with a wide range of VOx surface densities (1.434 VOx/nm2) and contrast the results with those obtained using propane as the reactant."
[10] "We have combined this analysis with detailed structural characterization of these catalysts in order to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants,which characterize the function of these catalytic materials."
[11] "In addition, we contrast the reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia with a wide range of vanadia surface densities and structures were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. Propene formation rates are about eight times higher than ethene formation rates at a given reaction temperature, but the apparent activation energies for oxidative dehydrogenation are similar for both reactants and relatively insensitive to vanadia surface density. The ratio of the rate constant for alkane combustion to the rate constant for oxidative dehydrogenation is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly with vanadia surface density for propane. The ratio of the rate constant for alkene combustion to the rate constant for oxidative dehydrogenation decreases markedly with increasing reaction temperature for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces. Previous studies on the effects of vanadia surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have yielded inconsistent results. The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at high temperatures and conversions in many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reactions on vanadia/alumina samples with a wide range of vanadia surface densities was reported, contrasting the results with those obtained using propane as the reactant. This analysis was combined with detailed structural characterization of the catalysts to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants that characterize the function of these catalytic materials. The reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes were also contrasted.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了具有广泛范氧化物表面密度和结构的氧化铝支撑的范氧化物的催化性能，用于乙烷和丙烷的氧化脱氢。在给定的反应温度下，丙烯形成速率大约是乙烯形成速率的八倍，但氧化脱氢的表观活化能对于两种反应物是相似的，对范氧化物表面密度相对不敏感。乙烷的烷烃燃烧速率常数与氧化脱氢速率常数之比与表面密度无关，但丙烷的该比值随范氧化物表面密度略有增加。对于乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢，烷烃燃烧速率常数与氧化脱氢速率常数之比随反应温度显著下降。在避免均相反应的高温下操作，主要含有孤立的单范酸盐物种的催化剂可以获得最高的烯烃产率。氧化物域尺寸和支撑对速率和选择性的影响归因于范氧化物和支撑表面的酸碱性质。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性影响的先前研究结果不一致。许多先前研究中缺乏详细的结构表征和严格的动力学分析，以及高温和高转化率下常见的温度梯度和可能的均相反应，导致了持续的争议。报告了对具有广泛范氧化物表面密度的范氧化物/氧化铝样品的乙烷氧化脱氢反应的详细动力学分析，对比了使用丙烷作为反应物得到的结果。该分析与催化剂的详细结构表征相结合，以将它们的局部结构与表征这些催化材料功能的速率常数值相关联。还对比了具有不同CH键能和各自烯烃不同吸附能的乙烷和丙烷分子的反应速率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
