<quotes>

[1] "The catalytic properties of Al2O3-supported vanadia with a wide range of VOx surface density (1.434.2 V/nm2) and structure were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane."
[2] "As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear (2.37.0 V/nm2), along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites at surface densities above 7.0 V/nm2."
[3] "Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum value at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2)."
[4] "The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K)."
[5] "The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces."
[6] "The local structure of supported VOx domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity."
[7] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
[8] "The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies."
[9] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
[10] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia with a wide range of vanadia surface densities and structures were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. As the surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear, along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density, reaching a maximum at intermediate surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity. Previous studies on the effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivities have reported inconsistent results. The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions in many previous studies, have contributed to ongoing controversies. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivities have been previously reported with inconsistent results.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了具有广泛范氧化物表面密度和结构的氧化铝支撑的范氧化物的催化性能，用于乙烷和丙烷的氧化脱氢。随着表面密度的增加，二维多范酸盐出现，伴随着V2O5晶体的增加。每单位钒原子的乙烯和丙烯形成速率受范氧化物表面密度的强烈影响，在中间表面密度时达到最大值。在主要包含孤立的单范酸盐物种并在避免均相反应的高温下操作的催化剂中，可以获得最高的烯烃产量。氧化物域尺寸和支撑对速率和选择性的影响归因于范氧化物和支撑表面的酸碱性质。支撑的范氧化物域的局部结构强烈影响氧化脱氢反应速率和选择性。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性的影响，以前的研究报告了不一致的结果。许多以前的研究中缺乏详细的结构表征和严格的动力学分析，以及高温和转化率下的温度梯度和可能的均相反应，导致了持续的争议。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性的影响，以前的研究报告了不一致的结果。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
