<quotes>

[1] "As far as the commercial PDH processes are concerned, the famous ones include the Catofin process owned by CB&I Lummus, Oleflex process developed by UOP, and STAR process developed by Uhde, where the Cr/Al2O3, PtSn/Al2O3, and PtSn/ZnO-Al2O3 oxides catalysts are applied, respectively. The Catofin process is operated at slightly positive atmospheric pressure of 0.20.5 bar, and the Oleflex process is usually operated at 13 bar, while the STAR process needs a higher pressure of 56 bar. Besides the catalytic system and the operation conditions especially the pressure, the other features like the type of reactor could also differ among the three processes. (1416) It has been proved that PtSn based catalysts could efficiently catalyze the direct dehydrogenation of propane, while the catalyst deactivation and the long-term stability issues are still the big challenges even for the aforementioned commercial catalysts."

[2] "Many efforts have been made to improve the resistance to coke and to protect the active sites from aggregating, both of which are considered as the main reasons for catalyst deactivation. (1720)"

[3] "The amorphous supports such as Al2O3 (2123) and SiO2, (24,25) the molecule sieves like ZSM-5, (2628) SBA-15, (2932) MCM-41, (33) and silicalite-1, (34,35) the mixed metal oxides like MgAlOx derived from the layered double hydroxides precursors (36,37) have been investigated. The results showed that the nature of support could significantly affect the catalytic activity and the catalytic stability, and the coke deposition was much easier to occur over the acidic supports rather than the neutral or basic ones."

[4] "Introduction of transition metal (Zn), (38) alkaline metal (Na, K), (39,40) alkaline earth metal (Mg, Ca), (31,41,42) and rare earth metal (La, Ce), (43,44) etc. into the catalysts as promotors offered another strategy to enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn and tune the acidbase property simultaneously. The modified catalyst properties further acted positively in promoting the catalytic performances of propane dehydrogenation."

[5] "The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propylene could be carried out in the presence or absence of oxidants. The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with molecular oxygen involves an exothermic process, meaning that the reaction could be operated at a medium high temperature (normally <600 C). At the same time, the existence of oxygen in the feedstock is helpful to restrict the coke formation, but the drawbacks are also obvious because the activation of CH bonds in alkanes is difficult, and deep oxidation usually occurs, leading to the generation of thermodynamically stable products COx. (7,8) The soft oxidant CO2 seems to be a good choice to overcome the problem, while it brings another challenge concerning the activation of CO2 to have it efficiently participate the reaction. (911) Up to date, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is still in the research stage."

[6] "In such a background, the propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) becomes a more favorable method to produce propylene because of (i) simpler reactant and product distribution, (ii) less investment, and (iii) easier integration with present technology. (12,13)"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is considered the most promising method for propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH simplifies reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and is easier to integrate with existing technology. It addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is abundant and economical due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas production. PDH operates without the need for oxidants, avoiding the issues of deep oxidation and the production of thermodynamically stable products like COx that are common in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. This makes PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷直接脱氢(PDH)技术被认为是生产丙烯最有前途的方法，因为它在原料可用性、过程效率和产品选择性方面具有优势。PDH简化了反应物和产物的分布，需要较少的投资，并且更容易与现有技术集成。它通过使用丙烷作为原料解决了传统生产方法的挑战，丙烷由于页岩气和天然气生产的开发而变得丰富且经济。PDH在没有氧化剂的情况下运行，避免了氧化脱氢过程中常见的深度氧化和生产热力学稳定产物如COx的问题。这使得PDH成为生产丙烯更有效和更选择性的过程。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
