<quotes>
React. Kinet. Catal. Lett., Vol. 36, No. 1, 97-102 (1988)
"SO2 can be applied as an oxidizing agent for dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons [1-4]."
"It is known that SO2 can be applied as an oxidizing agent for dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons [1-4]."
"It has been established [4-6] that in the course of this reaction one can observe the deposition of oxidative condensation products (OCP)."
"The aim of the present study was to investigate propane dehydrogenation by SO2 on carbon, (SBET=436 m2/g) obtained by ash granulation."
"Under flow conditions at a constant contact time indicates that propane conversion decreases with time."
"To establish the mechanism of participation of the oxidant propylene formation and OCP, pulses of either propane (R), or propane with an oxidizing agent (RSO) or separate pulses of propane and an oxidizing agent (R and SO) were admitted to the catalyst."
"Propylene yield was used to determine changes in the dehydrogenation properties of the catalyst."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study aimed to investigate the propane dehydrogenation process using sulfur dioxide (SO2) as an oxidizing agent on carbon catalyst. The researchers observed that the oxidative condensation products formed on the catalyst surface showed increased specific activity compared to the initial catalyst. The study also aimed to establish the mechanism of propylene formation and oxidative condensation products' participation in the reaction. By conducting pulse experiments, the researchers found that the amount of propylene formed after admitting SO2 to the catalyst after a pulse of propane was significantly higher compared to the initial pulses of propane alone, suggesting a concerted mechanism of propane interaction with SO2. Furthermore, the study confirmed the high catalytic activity of oxidative condensation products deposited on the carbon surface, which enhanced the stepwise mechanism of the reaction.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究旨在探究使用二氧化硫（SO2）作为氧化剂在碳催化剂上的丙烷脱氢过程。研究人员观察到，催化表面上形成的氧化性凝结产物相较于原始催化剂具有更高的特定活性。研究还旨在确定丙烯形成和氧化性凝结产物在反应中的参与机制。通过进行脉冲实验，研究人员发现，在将SO2添加到催化剂后的一次丙烷脉冲之后，形成的丙烯量明显高于仅单独进行的丙烷脉冲，这表明了SO2与丙烷之间的协同作用机制。此外，研究表明在碳表面沉积的氧化性凝结产物具有高度催化活性，能增强反应的步进机制。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
