<quotes>
[C1] "Amines are an important class of organic compounds, with a wide range of applications including as dyes, solvents, additives, anti-foam agents, corrosion inhibitors, detergents and drugs."
[C2] "As a result of the large number of applications, the development of new methods for the production of amines has been the focus of a large number of research studies."
[C3] "Although some good conversions were found, the selectivities were variable."
[C4] "In this case, reaction conditions of >150 C and 100 bar hydrogen were employed with high selectivities obtained."
[C5] "The relationship between the structural characterisation of these catalysts and kinetic experimental results is presented along with DFT calculations providing a rationale for the high activity observed with this bimetallic catalyst."
[C6] "The TPR analysis of the 4 wt%Pt4 wt%Re/TiO2 catalyst shows three peaks at 3 C, 40 C, and 400600 C."
[C7] "There is little evidence of Re or Pt in the XRD patterns of any of the catalysts shown in Fig. S6 , which is likely due to the metal particle size being extremely small."
[C8] "However, it is interesting to note that the amide is less soluble in the non-polar hexane solvent and can adsorb strongly to the catalyst surface, whereas in polar solvents, partitioning between the surface and the solvent will mean that the concentration of the amide on the catalyst surface will be less resulting in a lower rate of reaction."
[C9] "Although drying and recalcination went someway to restore the initial activity with conversions increasing again to 53% and 30% after each treatment, respectively, the initial high activity was not completely regained."
[C10] "On all other metals examined, the activation of the CO bond was found to be the most energy-demanding step."
[C11] "It is clear from these results why it is very difficult for pure metals to efficiently catalyse the hydrogenation of MPDO due to the balance between having sufficient oxophilicity to activate the CO bond, whilst also enabling facile oxygen hydrogenation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Catalytic hydrogenation of tertiary amides, especially N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one, can be efficiently facilitated by a TiO2-supported bimetallic Pt/Re catalyst at low temperatures and pressures. The role of the Re is to activate the CO bond, while the Pt aids in the reduction of the ReO and enables the formation of water and the amine.

2. The presence of Pt as a second component forms a two-phase catalyst that significantly reduces the hydrogenation barriers compared to pure Re surfaces. This makes the reaction easier to occur on this two-phase surface compared to pure metal catalysts.

3. Catalysts based on metals supported on reducible oxides, particularly TiO2, have been studied extensively due to the ability of the metal to induce facile reduction of the oxide support and form oxygen vacancies. This activates the support and allows both the metallic and oxidic phases to participate in CO bond hydrogenation reactions.

4. Although a range of supports was found to be effective for the hydrogenation, the use of titania promoted the activity of the bimetallic Pt/Re catalyst, resulting in over 90% conversion and >99% selectivity to the corresponding amine after 24 hours.

5. The selectivity and efficiency of the catalytic hydrogenation process can be optimized through experimental studies and enhanced by theoretical domain methodologies like density functional theory (DFT) calculations.

6. The interaction between the Pt and Re is critical in forming active amide hydrogenation catalysts. The role of Re is to activate the CO bond, whereas the Pt aids in the reduction of the ReO and enables the formation of water and the amine.

7. The presence of oxygen vacancies on the TiO2 support, created by the reduction of Ti4+ to Ti3+, allows for the adsorption and weakening of the CO bond, contributing to the high activity of the catalyst.

8. The conversion and selectivity were significantly influenced by the impregnation sequence of Pt and Re on the catalyst. Both sequences produced highly active catalysts, but the initial activity differed due to the increased activity in the first 3 hours of reaction with Pt deposition on a rhenium-based catalyst.

9. The effect of varying the Re loading while maintaining the loading of Pt at 4 wt% showed a significant increase in activity with Re loading from 0.25 wt% to 1 wt%, with the initial rates increasing from to . However, no further rate enhancement was found on increasing the Re loading to 4 wt%.

10. The rate of reaction was found to increase with the solubility of hydrogen in the solvent. Conversely, with the exception of ether solvents, as the polarity of the solvent increased, the rate of reaction generally decreased.

11. The TPR analysis of the catalysts showed that the predominant state of both Pt and Re were zero valent, irrespective of the support used. There was little evidence of Re or Pt in the XRD patterns, likely due to the small particle sizes of the metals.

12. The hydrogenation of amides to form alcohols and amines has recently been reported using homogeneous ruthenium complexes at 10 bar H2 and 110 C in THF. However, pressures below 50 bar H2 and temperatures below 120 C resulted in low conversions and selectivities.

13. The use of a range of heterogeneous Rh/Mo, Ru/Re, and Rh/Re bimetallic catalysts derived from zero-valent metal carbonyls for the selective hydrogenation of primary amides such as cyclohexane carboxamide has provided activity for the hydrogenation, but pressures below 50 bar H2 and temperatures below 120 C resulted in low conversions and selectivities.

14. The hydrogenation of amides under mild conditions (120°C to 160°C and 5 to 30 bar hydrogen) using group 8/Re bimetallic catalysts on a range of carbon and silica supports was reported. Although some good conversions were found, the selectivities were variable.

15. The introduction of Pt as a second component forming a two-phase catalyst greatly decreases the hydrogenation barriers compared to those on pure Re surfaces. The CO activation energy barrier is also slightly lowered on Re/Pt relative to that found on the Re stepped surface, further contributing to the ease with which the reaction can take place on this two-phase surface as compared with pure metal catalysts.

16. The rate of reaction is found to be predominantly kinetically controlled, with an apparent activation energy of 56 kJ mol−1. The catalyst aggregates in the polar amide phase and is no longer evenly distributed throughout the liquid phase even on strong mixing.

17. The selectivity and conversion are influenced by the impregnation sequence of Pt and Re, as well as the support used. The presence of titania was found to promote the activity of the bimetallic Pt/Re catalyst, resulting in high conversion and selectivity.

18. The presence of oxygen vacancies on the support, created by the reduction of Ti4+ to Ti3+, activates the support and allows for the adsorption and weakening of the CO bond, contributing to the high activity of the catalyst.

19. The solubility of the amide in the solvent affects the reaction rate. The amide is less soluble in non-polar hexane solvent and can adsorb strongly to the catalyst surface, whereas in polar solvents, partitioning between the surface and the solvent reduces the concentration of the amide on the catalyst surface, resulting in a lower rate of reaction.

20. The activity of the catalyst decreased after multiple runs, possibly due to the loss of interaction between the platinum and rhenium. Drying and recalcination restored some of the initial activity, but the initial high activity was not completely regained.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 催化氢化三胺，特别是N-甲基吡咯烷-2-酮，可以通过TiO2支持的双金属Pt/Re催化剂在低温和中等压力下高效实现。Re的作用是激活CO键，而Pt有助于减少ReO并使水和胺形成。

2. Pt作为第二组分形成的两相催化剂显著降低了氢化过程中的氢化能垒，与纯Re表面相比，这使得在该两相表面进行反应更容易，与纯金属催化剂相比。

3. 基于可还原氧化物的金属催化剂，尤其是TiO2，由于金属可以诱导易于还原氧化物支持并形成氧空位，已被广泛研究。这激活了支持，并允许金属和氧化性阶段参与CO键氢化反应。

4. 尽管各种支持被发现对氢化有效，但使用钛酸盐促进了双金属Pt/Re催化剂的活性，导致超过90％的转化和>99％的胺选择性在24小时内。

5. 通过实验研究和理论领域方法如密度泛函理论（DFT）计算优化和增强催化氢化过程的选择性和效率。

6. Pt和Re之间的相互作用对于形成有效的三胺氢化催化剂至关重要。Re的作用是激活CO键，而Pt有助于减少ReO并使水和胺形成。

7. 颗粒大小极小的金属在XRD模式中几乎没有证据，这可能是由于金属粒子尺寸很小。

8. 溶剂的影响表明，反应速率随着溶剂中氢的溶解度增加而增加。然而，在醚溶剂的情况下，除了，随着溶剂极性的增加，反应速率通常会降低。

9. TPR分析显示，无论是哪种支持，Pt和Re的主要状态都是零价。在XRD图案中几乎没有Re或Pt的证据，这可能是由于金属粒子尺寸很小。

10. 在THF中以10 bar H2和110 C的条件下，使用均相钌复合物进行了胺氢化到醇和胺的报告。然而，压力低于50 bar H2和温度低于120 C时，转化率和选择性很低。

11. 使用零价金属羰基衍生的多种异质Rh/Mo、Ru/Re和Rh/Re双金属催化剂进行主要酰胺的定向氢化提供了活性，但在压力低于50 bar H2和温度低于120 C时，转化率和选择性很低。

12. 使用一组8/Re双金属催化剂在碳和硅支持上对范围内的温度和压力进行氢化胺的报道。尽管找到了一些好的转化，但是选择性是变化的。

13. Pt作为第二组分形成的两相催化剂显著减少了氢化能垒与纯Re表面相比，这使得在该两相表面进行反应更容易，与纯金属催化剂相比。

14. 反应速率被发现在本质上是由动力学控制的，具有56 kJ mol−1的显着活化能。催化剂在极性胺相中聚集，并且即使在强烈混合后也不再均匀分布在液体相中。

15. 选择性和转化受到Pt和Re的浸渍顺序以及所用支持的影响。使用钛酸盐促进了双金属Pt/Re催化剂的活性，导致高转化和选择性。

16. 支持上的氧空位的存在，由Ti4+还原为Ti3+激活支持并允许吸附和削弱CO键，有助于催化剂的高活性。

17. 胺在溶剂中的溶解度影响反应速率。胺在非极性己烷溶剂中的溶解度较低，并且可以强烈吸附到催化剂表面上，而在极性溶剂中，表面和溶剂之间的分配会导致胺在催化剂表面上的浓度降低，从而降低反应速率。

18. 催化剂的活动在多次运行后下降，可能归因于铂和铑之间相互作用的丧失。干燥和重新煅烧恢复了一些初始活性，但最初的高活性并未完全恢复。

19. 促进催化剂活性的氧空位的存在，由Ti4+还原为Ti3+激活支持并允许吸附和削弱CO键，有助于催化剂的高活性。

20. 胺在溶剂中的溶解度影响反应速率。胺在非极性己烷溶剂中的溶解度较低，并且可以强烈吸附到催化剂表面上，而在极性溶剂中，表面和溶剂之间的分配导致胺在催化剂表面上的浓度降低，从而降低反应速率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
