<quotes>
JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS 164, 4453 (1996)
ARTICLE NO. 0361

The Effect of Reaction Conditions and Time on Stream on the Coke Formed during Propane Dehydrogenation

Mikael Larsson, Magnus Hult en, Edd A Blekkan, and Bengt Andersson,1

Department of Chemical Reaction Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, S-412 96 Göteborg, Sweden; Department of Heat and Power Technology, Chalmers University of Technology, S-412 96 Göteborg, Sweden; Department of Industrial Chemistry, The Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7034 Trondheim, Norway

Received October 30, 1995; revised August 2, 1996; accepted August 5, 1996

Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, coked during propane dehydrogenation, have been studied using temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO). Time on stream, temperature, and reaction gas composition have been varied.

Three different peaks were identified from the TPO profiles on the PtSn catalyst and attributed to different types of coke; coke on and in the vicinity of the metal, coke on the carrier, and graphitic coke on the carrier. The amounts of these types were related to reaction conditions.

The formation of the coke belonging to the first two peaks in the TPO profiles increases with temperature and partial pressure of propene. Hydrogen, on the other hand, suppresses the formation. The amount of coke that can be attributed to the third peak increases with temperature and propane partial pressure.

A model is discussed where a minor part of the coke deactivates the catalyst. This coke is formed in parallel with the coke that is seen in the first two peaks in the TPO experiments. The graphitic coke formed on the carrier is not formed through this route.

The experiments with different time on stream revealed that the first peak reached a constant level after about 15 h, while the second one still increased.

Hydrogen was very efficient in preventing coke formation and deactivation but could not remove coke already formed on the catalyst.

The hydrogenolysis and cracking mechanisms during the propane dehydrogenation are also discussed.

c 1996 Academic Press, Inc.

INTRODUCTION

The addition of tin to a platinum catalyst has proved to be an effective way to reduce undesired reactions and prevent deactivation, due to coke formation in naphtha reforming and alkane dehydrogenation reactions (15). Therefore, the bimetallic platinum-tin catalyst has received considerable attention in the last few decades. The goal in most investigations carried out with Pt and PtSn catalysts has been to study the performance in the reforming process. However, dehydrogenation of light paraffins is commercially done at a relatively high temperature, 770–900 K (6), and the deactivation rate and coke formation may differ from those in experiments conducted at lower temperatures.

Many authors have studied the effect of tin in the formation and composition of the coke by temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) (5, 7–13). The different peaks found in the TPO profiles have been proposed to be coke with different locations and different composition.

The effect of the catalyst composition, for example loading of tin, on the coke formed has been investigated in great detail (9). When tin is added to a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst, an increased total amount of coke is usually found (1, 4, 5, 14, 15). The hydrogen to carbon ratio of the coke and the relation of the different peaks in the TPO profiles have also been analyzed, but often with contradicting results (5, 7, 9, 12, 13, 16).

The issues we have tried to address in this study are: how will the deactivation change over time and with altered reaction conditions; are different types of coke formed; and if so, does the ratio between the types depend on the conditions; and how does the coke influence the catalyst.

In this paper we present two different studies of deactivated Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 dehydrogenation catalysts, where the coke has been deposited using different reaction conditions. In the first study, the reaction conditions were held constant except for the deactivation time. In the second set of experiments, deactivation time has been kept constant but reaction conditions such as flows and temperatures have been changed.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

The study examines the effect of various reaction conditions and time on stream on the coke formed during propane dehydrogenation. It uses temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) to identify three types of coke: coke on and near the metal, coke on the carrier, and graphitic coke on the carrier. The formation of the first two types of coke peaks increases with temperature and propene partial pressure, while hydrogen suppresses their formation. The amount of the third type of coke increases with temperature and propane partial pressure. A model suggests that a minor part of the coke deactivates the catalyst, formed in parallel with the coke seen in the first two peaks. The experiments reveal that the first peak reaches a constant level after about 15 hours, while the second one continues to increase. Hydrogen efficiently prevents coke formation and deactivation but cannot remove already formed coke on the catalyst. The study discusses the hydrogenolysis and cracking mechanisms during propane dehydrogenation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

本文研究了反应条件和停留时间对丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭的影响。它使用温度程序氧化（TPO）识别三种类型的焦炭：金属附近和附近的焦炭，载体上的焦炭，以及载体上的石墨状焦炭。第一种和第二种焦炭峰的形成量随温度和丙烯分压增加而增加，而氢抑制其形成。第三种类型焦炭的量随温度和丙烷分压增加而增加。模型提出，催化剂的一部分焦炭负责催化剂失活，与在TPO实验中观察到的第一两种焦炭同时形成。实验表明，第一个峰在约15小时后达到恒定水平，而第二个继续增加。氢高效防止焦炭形成和失活，但不能去除已形成的焦炭。研究讨论了丙烷脱氢过程中的氢解和裂解机制。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
