I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


CHAPTER 4
4 Shale Gas Properties and Processing
4.1 INTRODUCTION
Natural gas production from shale gas reservoirs is now proven to be feasible from numerous operations in various shale gas reservoirs in North America, but many challenges still remain in the full exploita- tion of these unconventional reservoirs. Production from shale gas reservoirs requires stimulation by hydraulic fracturing due to the extremely low permeability of the reservoir rocks. Maximization of res- ervoir producibility can only be achieved by a thorough understanding of the occurrence and properties of the shale gas resources (see Chapters 1 and 2) as well as the producibility of the gas from the reser- voir (see Chapter 3) (Kundert and Mullen, 2009). Although distinct in focus, these needs demonstrate the importance of the thorough charac- terization of shale gas reservoir (Table 4.1) as well as an understanding of how earth materials deform over various time scales and how it affect the current state of stress in the crust (Speight, 2014).
There is an additional issue that must be resolved if shale gas is to be a major contributor to US energy resources (or to the energy Table 4.1 Variation in Shale Properties for Different Shale Gas Reservoirs (Sone, 2012) Sample Group Estimated In Situ Stress (MPa) Density (g/cc)
QFP
(%) Carbonate (%) Clay (%) Kerogen (%) Porosity (%) Bamett-1 Sv: 65 Pp: 30 σeff: 35
2.392.47
5052 03 3639 911 49 Bamett-2
2.632.67
3153 3760 37 23 12 Haynesville-1 Sv: 85 Pp: 6070 σeff: 1525
2.492.51
3235 2022 3639 88 66 Haynesville-2
2.602.62
2324 4953 2022 44 34 Eagle Ford-1 Sv: 90 Pp: 65 σeff: 25
2.432.46
2229 4654 1221 911 03 Eagle Ford-2
2.462.54
1118 6378 614 45 35 Fort St. John Sv: 2530 Pp: 1012 σeff: 1320
2.572.60
5460 35 3239 45 56 QFP refers to quartz, feldspar, plagioclase, and pyrite component. resource plans of any country). The issue is the amenability of the gas to be included in current gas processing scenarios (Mokhatab et al.,2006; Speight, 2007). On the understanding that shale gas reservoirs will vary in properties such as origin, permeability, and porosity, dif- ferences in properties of the shale gas must be anticipated (Bustin et al., 2008) (see Chapters 1 and 2).
While shale gas resources represent a significant portion of current and future production, all shale gas is not constant in composition and gas processing requirements for shale gas can vary from area to area (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008; Weiland and Hatcher, 2012).
In addition, analysis of the gas composition of Devonian Shale wells indicates that the composition of produced gas shifts during the produc- tion history of the well (Schettler et al., 1989). Gas composition changes during production indicate that different components of natural gas produced have different decline curves. Thus, the total decline curve is the sum of the decline curves of the individual gas components.
The classic mechanisms of viscous flow and ideal-gas void-volume stor- age, as such, do not explain gas fractionation in gas wells. In fact, the only way to explain observed fractionation with such classic mechan- isms is to assume that total flow has several sources within the wellbore,each with different characteristic compositions and decline curves.
The flow rate of an individual component of a gas mixture can be obtained by multiplying the total flow rate by the mole fraction of the individual component. Even though the composition of gas from each source is assumed not to change, the composition of gas at the well- bore can change with time if the relative flows change with time (Schettler et al., 1989).
The second alternative is to assume that the gas composition changes observed at the wellbore reflect the changing composition of gas from at least some of the sources themselves. Candidates for such differences in gas composition include the presence of adsorption, solution, and/or diffusion. The occurrence of adsorption is associated with the presence of certain minerals in the reservoir, such as clay. Likewise, solution is associated with the presence of conventional petroleum or heavy oil or even gas condensate. The diffusion phenomenon is associated with dif- fusion through small pores such as those present in microporous reser- voirs. Since these factors are commonly present, this second alternative 102 Shale Gas Production Processes may be involved in explaining the fractionation in many reservoirs (Schettler et al., 1989). Thus, as reservoir depletion occurs, the composi- tion of the gas produced may approach the composition of the gas orig- inally in the reservoir. Thus, composition shifts during production will be expectedbut may not be expected, however, when the storage mechanism is associated solely with matrix porosity.
As a result of these various phenomena that can cause changes in gas composition, shale gas processors must be concerned about ele- vated ethane and nitrogen levels across a field. Other concerns are the increased requirements of urban gas processing. In addition, the rapid production growth in emerging shale areas can be difficult to handle.
Gas shale resources (see Chapter 2) represent a major contribution to the resource base of the United States. However, it is important to note that there is considerable variability in the quality of the resources, both within and between gas shale resources. Elevated levels of ethane, propane, carbon dioxide, or nitrogen in certain shale gases are of concern regarding their interchangeability with traditional natu- ral gas supplies. This high level of variability in individual well produc- tivity clearly has consequences with respect to the variability of individual well economic performance.
However, because shale is composed primarily of tiny grains of clay minerals and quartz, the mineral components of mud, the composition of the shale reservoir can varyspecifically the rock properties such as porosity, permeability, capillary entry pressure, pore volume compress- ibility, pore size distribution, and flow path (collectively known as petrophysics) can vary considerably (Sone, 2012). These materials were deposited as sediment in water, which was then buried, compacted by the weight of overlying sediment, and cemented together to form a rock (lithification). Clay minerals are a type of sheet silicate related to mica that usually occurs in the form of thin plates or flakes. As the sediment was deposited, the flakes of clay tended to stack together flat,one on top of another like a deck of cards, and as a result, lithified shale often has the property of splitting into paper-thin sheets. This is a convenient way to identify shale from other fine-grained rocks like limestone or siltstone.
This process, while appearing to be ordered in such a description, is in fact subject to geological disorder and thence subject to differing 103 Shale Gas Properties and Processing methods of entrapment of the organic material, different methods or rates of decomposition, different rates of formation of the gas, and hence different composition of the shale gas. The primary point of this section is that the geochemical and geological characteristics of each reservoir are relatively unique and must be carefully examined to deter- mine resources. Furthermore, general rules are difficult to apply innovation in unconventional drilling and completion techniques has added substantial reserves to otherwise uneconomic areas and has also been a key part of safe and efficient development (Cramer, 2008). This can affect the economics of shale gas production and gas cleaning (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014).
A major driver of shale economics is the amount of hydrocarbon liquid produced along with gas. Some areas contain wet gas with appreciable amounts of liquid, which can have a considerable effect on the breakeven economics, particularly if the price of oil is high com- pared to the price of gas.
The liquid content of a gas is often measured in terms of the condensate ratio, which is expressed in terms of barrels of liquid per million cubic feet of gas (bbls/MMcf). In some operations, for example in the case of a condensate ratio in excess of 50 bbls/MMcf, the liquid production alone can provide an adequate return on the investment,even if the gas cannot realize a fair market value.
4.2 GAS PROCESSING
Gas processing (gas treating, gas refining) usually involves the removal of (i) oil, (ii) water, (iii) elements such as sulfur, helium, and carbon dioxide, and (iv) natural gas liquids (see Chapter 6). In addition, it is often necessary to install scrubbers and heaters at or near the wellhead that serve primarily to remove sand and other large-particle impurities.
The heaters ensure that the temperature of the natural gas does not drop too low and form a hydrate with the water vapor content of the gas stream (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014).
Many chemical processes are available for processing or refining natural gas. However, there are many variables in the process of refin- ing sequence which dictate the choice of process or processes to be employed. In this choice, several factors must be considered: (i) the 104 Shale Gas Production Processes types and concentrations of contaminants in the gas, (ii) the degree of contaminant removal desired, (iii) the selectivity of acid gas removal required, (iv) the temperature, pressure, volume, and composition of the gas to be processed, (v) the carbon dioxidehydrogen sulfide ratio in the gas, and (vi) the desirability of sulfur recovery due to process economics or environmental issues.
In addition to hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide, gas may con- tain other contaminants, such as mercaptans (also called thiols, RSH) and carbonyl sulfide (COS). The presence of these impurities may elim- inate some of the sweetening processes since some processes remove large amounts of acid gas but not to a sufficiently low concentration.
On the other hand, there exist processes that are not designed to remove (or are incapable of removing) large amounts of acid gases.
However, these processes are also capable of removing the acid gas impurities to very low levels when the acid gases are present in low to medium concentrations in the gas.
Process selectivity indicates the preference with which the process removes one acid gas component relative to (or in preference to) another. For example, some processes remove both hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide; other processes are designed to remove hydrogen sulfide only. It is very important to consider the process selectivity for,say, hydrogen sulfide removal compared to carbon dioxide removal that ensures minimal concentrations of these components in the prod- uct; thus, there is a need for consideration of the carbon dioxide to hydrogen sulfide in the gas stream (Kohl and Riesenfeld, 1985; Maddox, 1982; Newman, 1985; Soud and Takeshita, 1994).
To include a description of all of the possible process for gas clean- ing is beyond the scope of this book. Therefore, the focus of this chapter is a brief description of the processes that are an integral part within the concept of production of a pipeline-able product (methane) for sale to the consumer.
Gas processing equipment, whether in the field or at processing/ treatment plants, assures that these requirements can be met. While in most cases, processing facilities extract contaminants and higher- molecular weight hydrocarbons (natural gas liquids) from the gas stream, in a few cases, the higher molecular weight hydrocarbons may be blended into the gas stream to bring it within acceptable Btu levels. 105 Shale Gas Properties and Processing Whatever the situation, there is the need to prepare the gas for trans- portation and use in domestic and commercial furnaces. Thus, natural gas processing begins at the wellhead and since the composition of the raw natural gas extracted from producing wells depends on the type,depth, and location of the underground deposit and the geology of the area, processing must offer several options (even though each option may be applied to a different degree) to accommodate the difference in composition of the extracted gas.
In those few cases where pipeline-quality natural gas is actually pro- duced at the wellhead or field facility, the natural gas is moved directly to the pipeline system. In other instances, especially in the production of nonassociated natural gas, field or lease facilities referred to as skid- mount plants are installed nearby to dehydrate (remove water) and decontaminate (remove dirt and other extraneous materials) raw natural gas, so converting it into acceptable pipeline-quality gas for direct delivery to the pipeline system. The skids are often specifically customized to process the type of natural gas produced in the area and are a relatively inexpensive alternative to transporting the natural gas to distant large-scale plants for processing.
Gas processing (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014) con- sists of separating all of the various hydrocarbons, non-hydrocarbons (such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide), and fluids from the methane (Figure 4.1; Table 4.2). Major transportation pipelines usually impose restrictions on the makeup of the natural gas that is allowed into the pipeline. That means that before the natural gas can be trans- ported it must be purified. While the ethane, propane, butanes, and pentanes must be removed from natural gas, this does not mean that they are all waste products.
Gas processing (gas refining) is necessary to ensure that the natural gas intended for use is clean burning and environmentally acceptable.
Natural gas used by consumers is composed almost entirely of methane but natural gas that emerges from the reservoir at the wellhead is by no means pure (see Chapter 3). Although the processing of natural gas is in many respects less complicated than the processing and refining of crude oil, it is equally as necessary before its use by end users.
Raw natural gas comes from three types of wells: oil wells, gas wells, and condensate wells (see Chapters 2 and 4). Associated gas 106 Shale Gas Production Processes (see Chapter 1), i.e., gas from petroleum wells, can exist separate from oil in the formation (free gas) or dissolved in the crude oil (dissolved gas). Nonassociated gas, i.e., gas from gas wells or condensate wells, is free natural gas along with a semiliquid hydrocarbon condensate.
Whatever the source of the natural gas, once separated from crude oil (if present) it commonly exists in mixtures with other hydrocarbons, Gas reservoir Gas-oil separator* Condensate separator
A
B*
C
D
E
F*
G*
* Gas stream Oil Oil reservoir Dehydrate Remove contaminants Nitrogen extraction DeMethanizer Fractionator Nitrogen
H2S
Co2 etc.
Water Condensate free water Dry (residue) gas (to pipeline) NGLs Ethane Propane Butane Pentanes Natural Gasoline Dry gas (to pipeline) * Optional step, depending upon the source and type of gas stream.
Figure 4.1 General schematic flow for gas processing. Energy Information Administration, Office of Oil and Gas, Natural Gas Division.
Table 4.2 Range of Composition of Natural Gas Methane
CH4
7090% Ethane
C2H6
020% Propane
C3H8
Butane
C4H10
Pentane and higher hydrocarbons
C5H12
010% Carbon dioxide
CO2
08% Oxygen
O2
00.2%
Nitrogen
N2
05% Hydrogen sulfide, carbonyl sulfide
H2S, COS
05% Rare gases: argon, helium, neon, xenon A, He, Ne, Xe Trace 107 Shale Gas Properties and Processing principally ethane, propane, butane, and pentane. In addition, raw nat- ural gas contains water vapor, hydrogen sulfide (H2S), carbon dioxide,helium, nitrogen, and other compounds. In fact, the associated hydro- carbons (natural gas liquids, NGLs) can be very valuable by-products of natural gas processing. Natural gas liquids include ethane, propane,butane, isobutane, and natural gasoline, which are sold separately and have a variety of different usesincluding enhancing oil recovery in oil wells, providing raw materials for oil refineries or petrochemical plants, and as sources of energy.
The actual practice of processing natural gas to high-quality pipe- line gas for the consumer usually involves four main processes to remove the various impurities: (i) water removal, (ii) liquids removal,(iii) enrichment, (iv) fractionation, and (v) the process by which hydro- gen sulfide is converted to sulfur (the Claus process).
The processes that have been developed to accomplish gas purifica- tion vary from a simple once-through wash operation to complex mul- tistep recycling systems (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014).
In many cases, the process complexities arise because of the need for recovery of the materials used to remove the contaminants or even for the recovery of the contaminants in the original, or altered, form (Kohl and Riesenfeld, 1985; Mokhatab et al., 2006; Newman, 1985).
Initially, natural gas receives a degree of cleaning at the wellhead.
The extent of the cleaning depends upon the specification that the gas must meet to enter the pipeline system. For example, natural gas from high-pressure wells is usually passed through field separators at the well to remove hydrocarbon condensate and water. Natural gasoline,butane, and propane are usually present in the gas, and gas processing plants are required for the recovery of these liquefiable constituents.
Throughout this chapter, two terms are used frequently: (i) absorp- tion and (ii) adsorption.
Absorption is an approach in which the absorbed gas is ultimately distributed throughout the absorbent (liquid). The process depends only on physical solubility and may include chemical reactions in the liquid phase (chemisorption). Common absorbing media used are water, aqueous amine solutions, caustic sodium carbonate, and nonvolatile hydrocarbon oils, depending on the type of gas to be 108 Shale Gas Production Processes absorbed.
Usually,the gasliquid contactor designs which are employed are plate columns or packed beds.
Absorption is achieved by dissolution (a physical phenomenon) or by reaction (a chemical phenomenon). Chemical adsorption processes adsorb sulfur dioxide onto a carbon surface where it is oxidized (by oxygen in the flue gas) and absorbs moisture to give sulfuric acid impregnated into and on the adsorbent.
Adsorption differs from absorption, in that it is a physicalchemical phenomenon in which the gas is concentrated on the surface of a solid or liquid to remove impurities. Usually, carbon is the adsorbing medium (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007), which can be regener- ated upon desorption. The quantity of material adsorbed is propor- tional to the surface area of the solid and, consequently, adsorbents are usually granular solids with a large surface area per unit mass.
Subsequently, the captured gas can be desorbed with hot air or steam either for recovery or for thermal destruction.
The number of steps and the type of process used to produce pipeline-quality natural gas most often depend upon the source and makeup of the wellhead production stream. In some cases, several of the steps (Figure 4.1) may be integrated into one unit or operation,performed in a different order, or performed at alternative locations,or be not required at all (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014).
In many instances, pressure relief at the wellhead will cause a natu- ral separation of gas from oil (using a conventional closed tank, where gravity separates the gas hydrocarbons from the higher-boiling crude oil). In some cases, however, a multistage gas-oil separation process is needed to separate the gas stream from the crude oil. The gas-oil separators used are commonly closed cylindrical shells, horizontally mounted with inlets at one end, an outlet at the top for removal of gas, and an outlet at the bottom for removal of oil. Separation is accomplished by alternately heating and cooling (by compression) the flow stream through multiple steps; some water and condensate, if present, will also be extracted as the process proceeds.
At some stage of the processing, the gas flow is directed to a unit that contains a series of filter tubes. As the velocity of the stream reduces in the unit, primary separation of remaining contaminants 109 Shale Gas Properties and Processing occurs due to gravity. Separation of smaller particles occurs as gas flows through the tubes, where they combine into larger particles which flow to the lower section of the unit. Furthermore, as the gas stream con- tinues through the series of tubes, a centrifugal force is generated which further removes any remaining water and small solid particulate matter.
4.3 SHALE GAS
Shale gas refers to natural gas (mainly methane) found in fine-grained,organic-rich rocks (gas shale) (see Chapters 1 and 2). In addition, the descriptor word shale does not refer to a specific type of rock but, in addition to shale (mudstone), has also been used to describe rocks with more fine-grained particles (smaller than sand) than coarse-grained particles, such as (i) siltstone and (ii) fine-grained sandstone interlami- nated with shale, as well as (iii) carbonate rocks. Thus, shale (including the additional rock types mentioned above) is a source rock that has not released all of the generated hydrocarbons. In fact, source rock that are tight or inefficient at expelling hydrocarbons may be the best prospects for shale gas potential. Thus, in gas shale, shale is a reservoir rock, source rock, and also a trap for natural gas. The natural gas found in these rocks is considered unconventional, similar to coalbed methane.
Shale gas is generated by any combination of (i) primary thermo- genic degradation of organic matter, (ii) secondary thermogenic decomposition of petroleum, and (iii) biogenic degradation of organic matter. The respective gases generated by thermogenic and biogenic pathways may both exist in the same shale reservoir.
Gas is stored in shale in three different ways: (i) adsorbed gas, which is physically attached (adsorption) or chemically attached (chemisorption) to organic matter or to clay, (ii) free gas (also referred to as nonassociated gas; Speight, 2014), which occurs within the pore spaces in the rock or in spaces created by the rock cracking (fractures or microfractures), and (iii) solution gas (also referred to as associated gas; Speight, 2014), which exists in solution in liquids such as petroleum and heavy oil. The amount of adsorbed methane usually increases with an increase in organic matter or surface area of organic matter and/or clay.
Higher free-gas content in unconventional shale gas reservoirs generally results in higher initial rates of production because the free gas 110 Shale Gas Production Processes resides in fractures and pores and is easier to get out relative to adsorbed gas. The high, initial flow rates decline rapidly to a low, steady rate within about 1 year as adsorbed gas is slowly released from the shale.Compared to most conventional reservoirs (typically a sandstone reservoir), the gas shale reservoir has an extremely low permeability.
In fact, the effective bulk permeability in gas shale is typically much less than 0.1 mD, although exceptions exist where the rock is naturally fractured:for example,the well-fractured Antrim Shale in the Michigan Basin in the United States. In most cases, it is normal for the well to need artificial stimulation, such as fracturing, to increase permeability to the well. This helps the well to produce gas in econom- ical quantities. The role of natural microfractures in reservoir produc- tion or in assisting artificial fracturing is not well understood.
4.4 SHALE GAS PROPERTIES AND PROCESSING
The shale formations in the United States that presently produce gas commercially exhibit an unexpectedly wide variation in the values of five key parameters: (i) thermal maturity, expressed as vitrinite reflec- tance, (ii) sorbed gas fraction, (iii) reservoir thickness, (iv) total organic carbon (TOC) content, and (v) volume of gas in place (see Chapter 2).
In addition, the degree of natural fracture development in an otherwise low-matrix-permeability shale reservoir is a controlling factor in gas producibility and, possibly, in gas properties.
A wide range of reservoir properties (see Chapter 2) control both the rate and the volume of shale gas production from the gas shale for- mations, notably: (i) thermal maturity, (ii) gas in place, TOC content,(iii) reservoir thickness, and (iv) proportion of sorbed gas. Natural fracture networks are required to augment the extremely low shale matrix permeability. Therefore, geology and geochemistry must be considered together when evaluating a given shale system both before and after drilling as well as gas processing options.
In addition, it is very likely that not only the amount and distribu- tion of gas within the shale but also the composition of the shale gas is determined by, among other things: (i) the initial reservoir pressure,(ii) the petrophysical properties of the rock, and (iii) the adsorption characteristics of the rockthus, during production there are three main processes that can be operative. 111 Shale Gas Properties and Processing Initial gas production is dominated by depletion of gas from the fracture network. This form of production declines rapidly due to limited storage capacity. Once the initial decline rate stabilizes, the depletion of gas stored in the matrix becomes the primary process involved in production. The amount of gas held in the matrix is dependent on the particular properties of the shale reservoir, which can be hard to estimate.
Secondary to this depletion process is desorption whereby adsorbed gas is released from the rock as pressure in the reservoir declines. The rate of gas production via the desorption process depends on there being a signif- icant drop in reservoir pressure. At the same time, the composition of the gas can, and undoubtedly does, change due to the action of any one of these parameters or due to the interaction of any two of the above para- meters or the interaction of all three of the above parameters.
Furthermore, in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin (WCSB), DevonianMississippian (DM) and Jurassic Shale formations have complex, heterogeneous pore volume distributions as identified by low- pressure carbon dioxide and nitrogen sorption (Ross and Bustin,2009). In fact, high-pressure methane isotherms on dried and moisture equilibrated shale samples show a general increase of gas sorption with TOC content. Methane sorption in DM formations increases with increasing TOC content and micropore volume, indicating that micro- porosity associated with the organic fraction is a primary control not only on methane sorption but also on shale gas composition.
The sorption capacities for Jurassic Shale formations may be unre- lated to micropore volume and the large sorbed gas capacities of organic-rich Jurassic Shale formations, independent of surface area,imply a portion of the methane is stored by solution in matrix bituminite (Ross and Bustin, 2009). Solute methane does not appear to be an important contributor to gas storage in DM shale formations (Ross and Bustin, 2009). In fact it is likely that structural transforma- tion of DM organic matter has occurred during thermal diagenesis creating and/or opening up microporosity onto which gas can sorb thereby also influencing the composition of the shale gas.
Furthermore, inorganic constituents also influence modal pore size,total porosity, and sorption characteristics of shale formation, thereby adding a further parameter to those parameters (above) that influence changes in the shale gas composition. Clays are known to provide excellent adsorption surfaces for petroleum constituents (Speight, 2014) 112 Shale Gas Production Processes and are also capable of sorbing gas into the internal structure, the amount of which is dependent on clay type.
The uncertainties of reservoir properties and fracture parameters (see Chapters 2 and 3) have a significant effect on shale gas properties and production, making the process of optimization of hydraulic frac- turing treatment design for economic gas production much more com- plex. It is extremely important to identify reasonable ranges for these uncertainty parameters and evaluate their effects on well performance,because the detailed reservoir properties for each wellbore are difficult to determine.
Gas production from unconventional shale gas reservoirs has become more common in the past decade, and there are increasing demands to understand the petrophysical and mechanical properties of these rocks. Characterizing these organic-rich shale formations can be challenging as these rocks vary quite significantly (Passey et al., 2010).
For instance, formations in the Barnett Shale are known to be more silica-rich, whereas Eagle Ford Shale rocks are generally carbonate- rich containing relatively smaller amounts of silica and clay.
Formations in these shale gas reservoirs also exhibit a wide range of composition within a single reservoir. There are also indications that it is not only the amount of clay or organics, but also the maturity of the shale formations that control the anisotropy of these organic-rich shale formations (Vanorio et al., 2008).
Not surprisingly, gas-bearing shale formations are complex reser- voirs (with a porosity on the order of 4 to 6 porosity units and a total organic carbon content of $ 4% w/w), which represent significant vari- ety in reservoir characteristics (i.e., mineralogy, porosity, permeability,gas content, and pressure). In addition, the shale porosity changes at very different rates in different regions and formations. Moreover, the gas in these shale formations occurs both as a free phase within pores and fractures and as gas sorbed onto organic matter. Not surprisingly,and in accordance with the varying shale reservoir properties, it must be anticipated that there will be differences in shale gas composition and properties.
Thus, although shale gas represents a large, new source of natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs), shale gas is certainly not the same everywhere. Produced shale gas observed to date has shown a broad 113 Shale Gas Properties and Processing variation in compositional makeup, with some having wider compo- nent ranges, a wider span of minimum and maximum heating values,and higher levels of water vapor and other substances than pipeline tariffs or purchase contracts may typically allow. Indeed, because of these variations in gas composition, each shale gas formation can have unique processing requirements for the produced shale gas to be mar- ketable. Ethane can be removed by cryogenic extraction while carbon dioxide can be removed through a scrubbing process. However, it is not always necessary (or practical) to process shale gas to make its composition identical to that of conventional transmission-quality gases. Instead, the gas should be interchangeable with other sources of natural gas now provided to end users. The interchangeability of shale gas with conventional gases is crucial to its acceptability and eventual widespread use in the United States.
Although not highly sour in the usual sense of having high hydro- gen sulfide content, and with considerable variation from resource to resource and even from well to well within the same resource (due to extremely low permeability of the shale even after fracturing) (see Chapters 1 and 3), shale gas often contains varying amounts of hydro- gen sulfide with wide variability in the carbon dioxide content. The gas is not ready for pipelining immediately after it has exited the shale formation.
The challenge in treating such gases is the low (or differing) hydro- gen sulfide/carbon dioxide ratio and the need to meet pipeline specifi- cations. In a traditional gas processing plant, the olamine of choice for hydrogen sulfide removal is N-methyl diethanolamine
(MDEA)
(Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007) but whether or not this olamine will suffice to remove the hydrogen sulfide without removal of exces- sive amounts of carbon dioxide is another issue.
Gas treatment may begin at the wellheadcondensates and free water usually are separated at the wellhead using mechanical separators. Gas,condensate, and water are separated in the field separator. Extracted con- densate and free water are directed to separate storage tanks and the gas flows to a gathering system. After the free water has been removed, the gas is still saturated with water vapor, and depending on the temperature and pressure of the gas stream, may need to be dehydrated or treated with methanol to prevent hydrates forming as the temperature drops. But this may not be always the case in actual practice. 114 Shale Gas Production Processes Thus, there exists the real need to evaluate gas processing opera- tions and the ability of a processing plant to treat a variety of shale gases to pipeline specifications. Solvent selection, strength, tempera- ture, and circulation rate, as well as the type and quantity of internals used in the contactor, are some of the process parameters and design variables that must be considered (Weiland and Hatcher, 2012).
4.4.1 Antrim Shale Formation
The Antrim Shale is a shallow shale gas resource in Michigan. The Antrim Shale is unique because the gas is predominantly biogenic: meth- ane is created as a by-product of bacterial consumption of organic mate- rial in the shale. The carbon dioxide level in these samples varies from 0 to 9%v/v (Table 4.3). Carbon dioxide is a naturally occurring by-product of shale gas produced by desorption and, as a result, the carbon dioxide levels in shale gas increase during the productive life of a well.
Individual well production varies from 50,000 to 60,000 ft3/day.
Significant associated water is produced, which requires central pro- duction facilities for dehydration, compression and disposal (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008).
The Antrim Shale gas, for example, has high nitrogen concentra- tion, as does at least one well tested in the Barnett Shale formation.
New Albany Shale gas show high carbon dioxide concentrations while several wells in the Marcellus Gas Shale have tested up to 16% v/v.
Economically treating and processing these gases requires all the same techniques as are used for conventional gasplus the ability to handle a great deal of variability in the same field. These differences in quality of shale gas introduce a note of caution into gas processing because of the variability of the composition and properties of the gas (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008; Weiland and Hatcher, 2012).
4.4.2 Barnett Shale Formation
The Barnett Shale formation is the more familiar of shale gas resources and grandfather of shale gas plays. The Barnett Shale formation lies around the DallasFort Worth area of Texas and produces gas at depths of 65009500 ft.
The initial discovery region was in a core area on the eastern side of the play. As drilling has moved westward, the form of the hydrocar- bons in the Barnett Shale has varied from dry gas prone in the east to 115 Shale Gas Properties and Processing oil prone in the west (Table 4.3). As a result of such variations in com- position, blending may be the most appropriate methods for equalizing the variations. With the richness of the gas, the Barnett Plants remove substantial amounts of natural gas liquids each day.
The Barnett Shale formation is the most well known of shale gas formations (see Chapter 2). Much of the technology used in drilling and production of shale gas has been developed for this resource (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008; Weiland and Hatcher, 2012). The Barnett Shale formation and produces at depths of 65009500 ft with a pro- duction rate on the order of 0.5 to 4 million cubic feet per day (ft3/day) with estimates of 300550 ft3 of gas per ton of shale.
The initial discovery region was in a core area on the eastern side of the resource, and as the drilling and gas recovery have moved west- ward, the composition of the shale gas has changed from dry gas pro- duction in the east to wet gas and oil production in the west.
The Barnett Shale resource play of North Texas, for example, con- tains several hundred parts per million (ppm v/v) of hydrogen sulfide and much higher amounts of carbon dioxide (in the percent v/v range).
In other shale resources, such as Haynesville and the Eagleville field (Eagle Ford resource), a hydrogen sulfide content is known to be pres- ent. In other gas shale resources, such as the Antrim resource and the New Albany resource, underlying Devonian formations may commu- nicate with and contaminate the shale formations. In addition, some of the shale gas resources have low carbon dioxide content but have a sufficiently high content of hydrogen sulfide to require treating. Thus,even after removing the natural gas liquids, there are reasons for the shale gas to require further treatment to remove hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide to meet pipeline specifications.
4.4.3 Fayetteville Shale Formation
The Fayetteville Shale is an unconventional gas reservoir located on the Arkansas side of the Arkoma Basin and ranges in thickness from 50 to 550 ft at a depth of 15006500 ft. The gas (Table 4.3) primarily requires only dehydration to meet pipeline specifications.
The shale formation is estimated to hold between 58 and 65 billion cubic feet (58 to 65 3 106 ft3) per square, and initial production rates were on the order of 0.20.6 million cubic feet per day for vertical 116 Shale Gas Production Processes wells and 1 to 3.5 million cubic feet per day for horizontal wells. In 2003, the production era exceeded 500 million cubic feet per day (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008).
4.4.4 Haynesville Shale Formation
The Haynesville Shale gas resource is the newest shale area to be developed. It lies in northern Louisiana and East Texas. The formation is deep ( .10,000 ft), with high bottomhole temperature (175C,350F), and high pressure (30004000 psi).Table 4.3 Variation of Shale Gas Composition with Well Placement (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008; Hill et al., 2007; Martini et al., 2003) Well
C1
C2
C3
CO2
N2
Antrim Shale Gas 1
27.5
3.5
1.0
65.0
2
57.3
4.9
1.9
0.3
5.9
3
77.5
4.0
0.9
3.3
14.3
4
85.6
4.3
0.4
9.0
0.7
Barnett Shale Gas 1
80.3
8.1
2.3
1.4
7.9
2
81.2
11.8
5.2
0.3
1.5
3
91.8
4.4
0.4
2.3
1.1
4
93.7
2.6
0.0
2.7
1.0
Fayetteville Shale Gas 1
97.3
1.0
0
1.0
0.7
Haynesville Shale Gas 1
95.0
0.1
0
4.8
0.1
Marcellus Shale Gas 1
79.4
16.1
4.0
0.1
0.4
2
82.1
14.0
3.5
0.1
0.3
3
83.8
12.0
3.0
0.9
0.3
4
95.5
3.0
1.0
0.3
0.2
New Albany Shale Gas 1
87.7
1.7
2.5
8.1
2
88.0
0.8
0.8
10.4
3
91.0
1.0
0.6
7.4
4
92.8
1.0
0.6
5.6
The compositions have been normalized to the reported compounds. 117 Shale Gas Properties and Processing The wells showed initial production rates up to twenty or more mil- lion cubic feet of gas per day with estimates of 100330 ft3 of gas per ton of shale (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008).
The gas requires treating for carbon dioxide removal (Table 4.3).
Operators in this field are using amine treating to remove the carbon dioxide with a scavenger treatment on the tail gas to remove hydrogen sulfide.
4.4.5 Marcellus Shale Formation
The Marcellus Shale lies in western Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. The formation is shallow at depths of 20008000 ft and is 3001000 ft thick. The gas composition varies across the field, much as it does in the Barnettthe gas becomes richer from east to west (Table 4.3). Initial production rates have been reported to be on the order of 0.54 million cubic feet per day (ft3/day), with estimates of 60100 cubic feet of gas per ton of shale (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008).
The Marcellus Shale gas has relatively little carbon dioxide and nitrogen. In addition, the gas is dry and does not require removal of natural gas liquids for pipeline transportation. Early indications are that the Marcellus gas has sufficient liquids to require processing.
4.4.6 New Albany Shale Formation
The New Albany Shale is black shale in Southern Illinois extending through Indiana and Kentucky. The formation is 5004900 ft deep and 100400 ft thick. The gas composition (Table 4.3) is variable and low flow rates of wells in the New Albany Shale require that the production from many wells must be combined to warrant processing the gas.
Vertical wells typically produce 25,00075,000 ft3/day, whereas hor- izontal wells can have initial production rates up to 2 million cubic feet per day (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 