I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Electronic structure of alumina-supported monometallic Pt and bimetallic PtSncatalysts under hydrogen and carbon monoxide environment The structure of supported platinum and platinumtin nanoparticles was investigated by Pt L3 high-energy resolution fluorescence detected X-ray absorption spectroscopy (HERFD XAS) and resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS). The incorporation of tin decreased the ability of particles to adsorb both hydrogen and carbon monoxide due to tin enrichment on the surface. The platinum d band of platinumtin particles was narrower and was shifted down relative to the Fermi level in comparison to platinum particles. The difference in electronic structure between pure and alloyed particles persisted after adsorption of hydrogen. The PtH antibonding state was clearly identified for the pure platinum particles. The strong adsorption of carbon monoxide changed the geometric structure of the PtSn particles. After carbon monoxide adsorption, the geometric structures of both systems were very similar. Room temperature adsorption of carbon monoxide affects the structure of platinum catalysts.
1. Introduction
Supported noble metal catalysts are used on a large scale in petroleum refining, energy conversion, fine chemicals production, and automobile exhaust conversion.1 To enhance activity, selectivity, and stability, a unique combination of metal, support, and addition of dopants are applied. To understand the origin of the activity and reactivity of these catalysts, an elucidation of the geometric and electronic structure of the ensemble of atoms forming the catalytically active site is essential. An enormous body of work exists aiming to establish structureactivity relationship in heterogeneous catalysis.2 When an adsorbate is chemically adsorbed on a metal surface, new electronic states are formed. These electronic states consist of bonding and antibonding states as shown in Fig. 1. When the antibonding states are pushed above the Fermi level, the adsorbate bonds to the metal.3 Nrskov and co-workers have developed the adsorbate-metal bonding model based on d band theory.4 According to this theory, the adsorption energy of the adsorbates, and in parallel the reactivity of the metal surface, depends on the energy position of the d band relative to the Fermi level. Metals that have their d band centre closer to the Fermi level are more active towards the adsorption of adsorbates than those with a d band centre farther from the Fermi level. The d band shape of a metal and, thus, the d band centre are prone to change after alloying with a different metal.5 Alloying two different metals is a common practice in heterogeneous catalysis to improve the activity, selectivity, and stability for many reactions. The synergistic effect in bimetallic catalysts has been shown to depend on the precise particle composition, feed composition and operating temperature.6 The changes in the performance of bimetallic catalysts are often related to their different electronic and geometric structures.5b Many experimental7 and theoretical8 studies have shown a higher activity for the bimetallic alloys compared to monometallic materials due to electronic modification of the primary metal sites after alloying. However, there are very few experimental studies to quantitatively relate the performance of the catalytic systems to their structure.5b,9 Here, we determine and compare the differences in electronic structure of alumina-supported platinum particles (monometallic system) and alumina-supported platinumtin particles (bimetallic system). The addition of tin is a classical way to modify the catalytic performance of platinumcatalysts. The filled and unfilled densities of states (DOS) of platinum are probed by high-energy resolution fluorescence detected (HERFD) X-ray absorption spectroscopy10 and resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS),10c,11 respectively (Fig. 2). HERFD XAS is a technique where X-ray absorption spectra with higher-energy resolutions are recorded with an instrumental broadening that is below the core hole lifetime broadening.10 The selective detection of a fluorescence decay channel, which results in a core hole with a longer lifetime and thus smaller broadening, results in the sharper features in the spectra. When exciting the L3 edge, the empty d-DOS are probed. This technique has been successfully employed to explore the electronic structure of supported platinumcatalysts under reaction conditions.2d,10e The energy-dispersive detection of fluorescence produced by the filling of the core hole (created in the normal absorption process) is the basis of RIXS. RIXS has been applied in many instances to provide the detailed electronic structure of 3d metals.10b,c,11,12 When detecting the 5d to 2p decay channel, the filled d-DOS is probed, which we have explored for platinum and gold.13Fig. 2 illustrates the electron transitions that occur. The incident photon energy is used to excite an electron from the 2p energy level into the empty 5d level leaving a core hole behind. This core hole is filled by an electron from the valence 5d, resulting in emission of an X-ray associated with fluorescence energy. The net transition thus occurs from valence 5d to unfilled 5d states, which is called the net charge transfer. This charge transfer is measured by the RIXS process. RIXS, which provides the detailed electronic information, is a process where X-ray emission is measured while varying the excitation energy across an absorption edge. A RIXS plane is a two dimensional energy distribution obtained by varying incident and emitted energy. In this study, the RIXS planes show the charge transfer (incident energy minus emitted energy) distribution along the incident energy across the absorption edge of platinum. Using HERFD and RIXS at the Pt L3 edge, it is uniquely possible to determine the element-specific electronic structure of the platinum d band, which is especially relevant for the bonding property of the metal. Moreover, because hard X-rays are employed and detected, the experiment does not require vacuum and can be performed under in situ (catalytic) conditions.
Fig. 1 Simplified scheme describing the interaction of adsorbate orbitals with the metal d band.
Fig. 2 Single-electron energy schemes for resonant emission spectroscopy with electronic transitions to and from the d-DOS around the Fermi energy.
In this study, we have utilized the above-described techniques to probe the filled and unfilled DOS of monometallic (platinum) and bimetallic (platinumtin) systems and to elucidate the electronic and geometric effect of alloying platinum with tin. The observed changes in the DOS have been related to the adsorption properties of these systems for hydrogen and carbon monoxide.
2. Experimental
2.1 Catalyst synthesis
1.90 wt% Pt/Al2O3, hereafter called Pt/Al2O3, was synthesized using an incipient-wetness impregnation method. 1.0 g Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 in 14 ml deionized water was added to 25g of γ-alumina (surface area of 180 m2 g1). 2 mL saturated NH4OH was then added to the above mixture. This sample was dried overnight at 398 K, at 498 K for 3 h, and reduced at 523 K in a flow of pure hydrogen (100 mL min1) at atmospheric pressure. The platinum elemental composition was determined by inductively coupled plasma method. The catalyst was dried at 498 K afterwards. For synthesis of 1 wt% Pt and 0.25 wt% Sn on Al2O3, hereafter called PtSn/Al2O3, first platinum was grafted onto γ-Al2O3 by wetness impregnation. An aqueous solution was made from 128 mg of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 in 3.3 mL de-ionized H2O, and then mixed with 6.34 g of γ-Al2O3. The obtained solid was dried at 423 K for 1 h followed by calcination in flowing air at 573 K for 5 h. The resulting powder was treated with an aqueous solution of 45 mg Bu3SnOAc in 3.4 mL pentane. After drying at room temperature, the catalyst was heated in flowing air at 373 K for 1 h and later at 673 K for 3 h.
2.2 Chemisorption measurements
Hydrogen and carbon monoxide chemisorption measurements were done using a Micromeritics ASAP 2010 apparatus under static volumetric conditions. Catalysts were reduced in pure hydrogen at 473 K for 30 min and then evacuated at 473 K for 30 min before cooling to 303 K under vacuum. The total amount of adsorbed hydrogen or carbon monoxide was obtained by extrapolating the linear part of the adsorption isotherms (10 kPa to 100 kPa). After obtaining the first isotherm, the catalyst was re-evacuated for 60 min prior to obtaining the second adsorption isotherm. This isotherm provided the amount of weakly adsorbed hydrogen or carbon monoxide. The amount of strongly bound (chemisorbed) hydrogen and carbon monoxide was calculated from the difference between the first (total adsorbed) and second (weakly adsorbed) isotherm. Afterwards, the total and strong H/Pt and CO/Pt were calculated, which represent the moles of adsorbed atomic hydrogen and carbon monoxide per mole of platinum.
2.3 Electron microscopy
The particle size distribution was determined by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). The sample was mounted on a carbon foil after the evaporation of ethanol, and a copper grid was used to support the sample. The measurements were performed using a Tecnai F30 microscope operating with a field-emission cathode at 300 kV and a high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) detector. Elemental analysis of bright spots in the STEMmicrographs were confirmed by energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX).
2.4 Flow scheme details
The experiments were conducted using the flow scheme described elsewhere.14 Gases were mixed prior to reaching the reactor15 using computer-controlled mass-flow controllers (MFCs). A computer-operated four-port valve (4PV) was used for sudden switches between the adsorbing gases and helium, enabling the separation of the oxygen and hydrogen lines. The reactor was equipped with aluminium windows to allow transmission and fluorescence XAS experimentation. The temperature of the reactor was controlled by an embedded thermocouple in the reactor housing. The catalyst was sieved to a fraction of 63125 μm particles. The amount of catalyst used in the reactor was approximately 40 mg. The catalyst was pre-treated in situ in 5% hydrogen in helium at 473 K, in pure helium at 473 K for 30 min and cooled down in pure helium to 303 K, before switching to the adsorbing gas mixture. The measurements were done at a constant total flow of 30 NmL min1 through the reactor, corresponding to a space velocity of about 64000 h1.
2.5 High-energy resolution fluorescence detected X-ray absorption spectroscopy (HERFD XAS) and resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS)
Measurements were performed at beamline ID 26 at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), Grenoble, France using two U35 undulators. The X-ray beam measured 0.6 mm horizontal and 0.2 mm vertical. The energy was calibrated with a platinum foil. For the high energy resolution fluorescence detected (HERFD) absorption spectra, the incident energy was selected by means of a pair of Si(111) crystals with an energy bandwidth of 1.6 eV at the Pt L3 edge, while for the valence band RIXS measurements, a pair of Si(311) crystals with an energy bandwidth of 0.4 eV was employed. The total flux was 3 × 1013 and 5 × 1012photons s1 for the Si(111) and Si(311)monochromator crystals, respectively. Higher harmonics were suppressed by two mirrors, one coated with palladium and the other with chromium, working at 3 mrad in total reflection. High-energy resolution emission detection was carried out with a vertical-plane Rowland circle spectrometer that was tuned to the Pt Lα1 (9442 eV) fluorescence line and a silicon drift detector (SDD) or avalanche photodiode as photon counting detector for the RIXS and HERFD measurements, respectively. For the RIXS experiments, a total energy bandwidth (incident energy convoluted with emission detection) of 1.5 eV was achieved with the (931) Bragg reflection of one spherically bent Si crystal (bending radius R = 1000 mm, crystal diameter d = 100 mm). For the HERFD experiments a total energy bandwidth of 2.0 eV was achieved with the (660) Bragg reflection of four spherically bent Ge crystals (R = 1000 mm, d = 100 mm). This is below the HERFD lifetime broadening of 2.2 eV based on the Pt Lα1 line. A Canberra silicon photodiode was mounted to measure the total fluorescence simultaneously with the HERFD XAS. The intensity of the elastic peak in RIXS was reduced using a scattering angle of 90 degrees. The elastic peak was used to determine the absolute energy along the charge transfer direction, i.e. the RIXS planes were shifted such that the elastic peak appears at zero charge transfer. HERFD spectra and RIXS planes were collected at 303 K under 5% carbon monoxide in helium, at 303 K under 5% hydrogen in helium, and at 473 K under 5% hydrogen in helium, after the system was in steady state as detected by a mass spectrometer. The absorption near edge structures measured at increasing temperature had reached a constant stage at about 473 K, so we concluded that the spectrum at 473 K is indicative of bare platinum. The HERFD spectra were collected at a time resolution of 120 s.
3. Results
3.1 Electron microscopy and chemisorption measurements
Fig. 3 shows the STEMmicrographs of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3. Both catalysts showed well-dispersed particles supported on alumina. The particle size distributions confirmed the average size of particles in both samples of around 0.9 nm. A few particles of around 2.5 nm were observed in the case of PtSn/Al2O3. In Table 1, H/Pt and CO/Pt values are tabulated for the total and strongly adsorbed hydrogen and carbon monoxide at 303 K. Pt/Al2O3 showed total and strong H/Pt values of 1.26 and 0.51 respectively. A previous study has shown that small platinum particles supported on alumina can adsorb more than one hydrogen atom per platinum atom.16 Total and strong CO/Pt values for Pt/Al2O3 were 0.86 and 0.70 respectively. PtSn/Al2O3 showed significantly lower values for both CO/Pt and H/Pt than Pt/Al2O3. The total and strong H/Pt values were 0.75 and 0.25, respectively, and the total and strong CO/Pt values were 0.39 and 0.29, respectively. Similar results have been previously reported.17 Fig. 3 STEMmicrograph of (a) Pt/Al2O3 and (b) PtSn/Al2O3. The figures on the right side show particle size distribution.
Table 1 Chemisorption results for total and strong adsorption of hydrogen and carbon monoxide at 303 K CO/Pt H/Pt Total Strong Total Strong Pt/Al2O3 0.86 0.70 1.26 0.51 PtSn/Al2O3 0.39 0.29 0.75 0.25
3.2 Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 HERFD XAS
Fig. 4(a) shows Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 under the different environments. The spectrum of bare platinum showed a strong whiteline at 11565.6 eV, which corresponds to the 2p3/2 to 5d dipole transition. Its intensity is a direct measure of the number of holes in the d band.18 The features after the whiteline, at 11572.8 eV, 11581.2 eV, and 11594.6 eV, originate from multiple scattering of the photoelectron against the neighbouring platinum atoms. Their relatively low intensity indicated small platinum particles, in agreement with STEM. The spectrum after hydrogen adsorption showed a very similar whiteline intensity to that of bare platinum. There was a positive shift of 0.4 eV in the edge position, suggesting that the Fermi level was pushed up by 0.4 eV. The intensity was enhanced between 11570.2 eV and 11577.6 eV originating from the interaction of platinum with hydrogen atoms resulting in an antibonding state. The spectrum of Pt/Al2O3 with adsorbed carbon monoxide showed a broadened whiteline consisting of a doublet, which is direct evidence of adsorbed carbon monoxide on platinum surface predominantly in an atop position.10d The edge was shifted by 0.8 eV compared to the edge in the spectrum of bare platinum. All the features after the whiteline, at 11572.8 eV, 11581.2 eV, and 11594.6 eV, were similar to the spectrum of bare platinum. Fig. 4(b) shows the Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of PtSn/Al2O3 with different adsorbates. The spectrum of bare platinum showed a whiteline intensity at 11566.3 eV. The features at 11581.2 eV, and 11594.6 eV originated from multiple scattering of the photoelectron against the neighbouring atoms. The spectrum after adsorption of hydrogen showed a shift in the edge position of less than 0.2 eV. There was a slight increase in the whiteline intensity at 11566.7 eV. The hydrogen antibonding state was observed between 11569.7 eV and 11578.9 eV and had a small intensity in agreement with the relatively low H/Pt value. The spectrum after adsorption of carbon monoxide showed broadening of the whiteline, consisting of a doublet, which confirmed the predominant atop adsorption of carbon monoxide on the platinum surface. The edge shift was 0.4 eV relative to the spectrum of the bare platinum particles. The features at 11581.2 eV and 11594.6 eV became more pronounced, which might suggest particle growth or loss of disorder. There was loss of intensity between 11571.8 eV and 11579.6 eV, the origin of which was not immediately clear.
Fig. 4 Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of (a) Pt/Al2O3 and (b) PtSn/Al2O3 for bare platinum (black), after hydrogen adsorption (red), and after carbon monoxide adsorption (blue).
3.3 Bare particles
Fig. 5(a) compares Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 for the bare platinum particles. The whiteline in the spectrum of PtSn/Al2O3 was slightly less intense and broader compared to that of Pt/Al2O3, which indicated a change in the electronic structure after alloying the platinum with tin, as the shape of the whiteline is a direct measure of changes in the unfilled platinum d band.18 The edge of the spectrum of PtSn/Al2O3 was also shifted by 0.3 eV compared to that of Pt/Al2O3. All the features after the whiteline were similar for monometallic and bimetallic particles, with the exception of the somewhat larger intensity of the features in monometallic platinum, which might result from the mixed PtPt and PtSn contributions in the mixed metal particles. Fig. 5(b) and (c) show the RIXS planes of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3, showing the charge transfer distribution that is representative of the filled d-DOS (Fig. 2). To emphasize the differences in the RIXS planes, Fig. 5(d) shows the line plots that were obtained from the RIXS planes by integrating the spectral intensity along the incident energy. The feature at 0.0 eV charge transfer is the elastic peak, which occurs when the excited electron decays to fill the core hole without losing energy, implying that the emitted energy is equal to the incident energy. Table 2 summarizes the most important characteristic features of the RIXS planes. The shape and position of the filled d-DOS of platinum were different for Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3. The elastic peak at zero charge transfer and the d band of platinum in Pt/Al2O3 were merged together, which means that the Fermi level lies within the filled d band of platinum. The d band was broad along the incident energy and tailed along the diagonal of the RIXS plane. There was a very small gap opening up between the elastic peak and the d band of platinum in the case of PtSn/Al2O3 (Fig. 5(c) and (d)). The d band was more symmetrical and tailed along the diagonal of the RIXS plane. The other important difference between the d band of platinum in the two samples was the position of the centre of the d band relative to the Fermi level. The centre of the most intense feature in the RIXS plane for Pt/Al2O3 was at a charge transfer value of 3.50 eV and for PtSn/Al2O3 it was at 4.00 eV. These values were large in the line plots, because of the integrated nature of these plots. The trend, however, was the same. The d band of platinum was narrower in PtSn/Al2O3 than the one in Pt/Al2O3.
Fig. 5 (a) Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black) and 2p3/25d RIXS plane of (b) Pt/Al2O3 and (c) PtSn/Al2O3 for bare platinum; (d) integrated line plots along the incident energy of RIXS planes of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black).
Table 2 Spectral shape of valence-to-core emission spectra of platinum compounds Pt/Al2O3 PtSn/Al2O3 Shape of spectrum Shape of spectrum Bare Broad spectrum merged with the elastic peak, tailing at higher charge transfer Symmetrical spectrum with a small gap with elastic peak, tailing at higher charge transfer Adsorbed hydrogen Broad symmetrical spectrum with tailing at higher charge transfer Narrower symmetrical spectrum with tailing at higher charge transfer Adsorbed carbon monoxide Symmetrical spectrum with less tailing Symmetrical spectrum with less tailing
3.4 Hydrogen adsorption
Fig. 6(a) shows the Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 after hydrogen adsorption. The whiteline of the spectrum of PtSn/Al2O3 was slightly broader than that of Pt/Al2O3. The whiteline intensity was similar. The edge in the spectrum of PtSn/Al2O3 was about 0.2 eV higher than that of Pt/Al2O3. The feature at 11572.8 eV was more intense for Pt/Al2O3. The region between 11579.5 and 11590.7 eV, which originates from multiple scattering, showed a different fine structure, which is indicative of a different geometry around the platinum atoms. The feature at 11594.6 eV had a similar intensity for both samples. Fig. 6(b) and (c) shows the RIXS planes for Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3, representing the d band of platinum after hydrogen adsorption. The d bands of platinum in both samples were symmetrical and tailed along the diagonal of the RIXS plane (Table 2). There was a gap that opened up between the elastic peak and the d band of platinum in both samples, but more so for PtSn/Al2O3. The band in the case of Pt/Al2O3 was broader along the incident energy than that of PtSn/Al2O3. The centre of the most intense features in the RIXS planes were at 3.65 eV and 4.55 eV for Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3, respectively. Fig. 6(d) shows the line plots obtained by integrating the spectral intensity along the incident energy of RIXS planes. They confirmed that the d band was broader for PtSn/Al2O3 compared to that of Pt/Al2O3.
Fig. 6 (a) Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black) and 2p3/25d RIXS plane of (b) Pt/Al2O3 and (c) PtSn/Al2O3 after hydrogen adsorption; (d) integrated line plots along the incident energy of RIXS planes of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black).
3.5 Carbon monoxide adsorption
The adsorption of carbon monoxide also resulted in changes in the d band of platinum and the formation of antibonding states, which were detected by RIXS and HERFD XAS, respectively, as shown in Fig. 7. Fig. 7(a) shows the comparison of the Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 after adsorption of carbon monoxide. The doublet feature in the broad whiteline of the HERFDspectra in both samples confirmed the predominant atop adsorption of carbon monoxide on the platinum surface. The whiteline intensity of the spectrum of PtSn/Al2O3 was slightly higher than that of Pt/Al2O3. The feature at higher energy in the doublet of the whiteline is formed by the overlapping of orbitals of C and O atoms with platinum d orbitals.10d The intensity of the high energy feature of the doublet relative to the low energy feature was lower for PtSn/Al2O3 than for Pt/Al2O3 in agreement with the lower carbon monoxide coverage from the chemisorption measurement. There was loss of intensity after the whiteline, between 11571 and 11578 eV, in PtSn/Al2O3 compared to Pt/Al2O3, the origin of which was not immediately clear. The features at 11581.2 eV, and 11594.6 eV were very similar for both samples, suggesting that after adsorption of carbon monoxide, the geometric structure became similar in both samples. Fig. 7(b) and (c) show the RIXS planes for Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3, respectively. In both planes, there was a large gap between the elastic peak and the most intense feature of the RIXS planes as observed before.13 A similar gap opening after carbon monoxide adsorption is reported on Pd4clusters.19 The energy distribution in the RIXS planes was quite broad along the incident energy axis in both samples. The centre of the most intense feature in the RIXS planes of both samples was at 5.70 eV charge transfer. Fig. 7(d) shows the line plots obtained by integrating the spectral intensity along the incident energy of the RIXS planes, which confirmed the gap opening between the band and the elastic scattering peak and the more similar structure of Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 after CO adsorption than in the case of bare particles and after hydrogen absorption.
Fig. 7 (a) Pt L3 edge HERFD XANES of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black) and 2p3/25d RIXS plane of (b) Pt/Al2O3 and (c) PtSn/Al2O3 after carbon monoxide adsorption; (d) integrated line plots along the incident energy of RIXS planes of Pt/Al2O3 (red) and PtSn/Al2O3 (black).
4. Discussion
The dispersed monometallic platinum and bimetallic platinumtin particles supported on alumina showed differences in the adsorption properties for hydrogen and carbon monoxide (Table 1). The results showed a decrease in the ability of bimetallic platinumtin particles to adsorb hydrogen and carbon monoxide, in accordance with many previous studies,17 which is associated with a decrease in the amount of platinum on the surface.7c,17b,d,20 These differences between monometallic and bimetallic catalysts are often related to the changes in the electronic7a,21 and geometric22 structure of the parent metal upon addition of the second metal. Some studies suggested that both electronic and geometric effects play a vital role in the enhancement of the activity of bimetallic systems.5,23 These differences in the electronic and/or geometric structures of the bimetallic materials have often been related to their superiority in terms of activity and reactivity for many reactions.5b,6,6c,17c,d,24 Preferential oxidation (PROX) of carbon monoxide is one such reaction that has been studied over monometallic platinum25 and bimetallic platinum7c,26catalysts. There have been reports showing the formation of Sn4+Pt ensemble sites during the COoxidation17c that activate the CO molecule. The selective adsorption of reactants on these metals also influences the reactivity of these catalysts.6,27 The atomic ratio of platinum and tin has been shown to be an important factor for the formation of different phases of the platinumtin alloys, which ultimately affect their catalytic performance for the oxidation reactions.24a However, there are reports where no synergism effects have been observed by combining platinum with other metals.28 The other debated and still ambiguous factor is the electronic structure of tin in these bimetallic catalysts. XPS has been extensively used to decipher the oxidation state of tin in these bimetallic catalysts.17b,d,21b,25c Some studies found mainly cationic tin as the prevailing species17d,29 while others observed tin to be mainly in a reduced state.30 Mixed states of tin have also been reported.17b There are many studies using different techniques that try to reveal and interpret the differences in the performance of monometallic and bimetallic catalysts. The change in the CO stretching frequency of linearly adsorbed carbon monoxide, observed using infrared spectroscopy, is often used as a measure of structural changes in the bimetallic systems.7c,17a,b,22a,23 The shift of this frequency to lower wavenumbers has been explained by the dilution effect of tin in many instances.7c,31 Alternatively, the decrease in wave numbers has been attributed to changes in the electronic structure of platinum by the addition of a second metal.32 However, there are reports where no change in the frequency,33 or an upward shift in the frequency,17b,31b was observed after addition of tin. The XPS binding energy shift of 1 eV in the Pt 4f level towards higher binding energy after alloying platinum with tin has been associated with the electronic transfer from the Pt 4f level to the bond between platinum and tin.21b This could be interpreted as rehybridization of d orbitals with s and p orbitals due to the formation of platinumtin bonds as illustrated by ab initio self-consistent-field calculations.34 There is a report suggesting that the observed shift of 0.2 eV in the case of supported platinumtincatalysts compared to platinumcatalysts is too minimal to show any electronic change after the addition of tin.17aUPS studies have also shown the change in the electronic structure of platinum after alloying with tin.7aX-Ray diffraction (XRD) studies on the contrary22b have shown the dominance of geometric effects, where it is shown that the lattice constant of platinum is dilated because of the presence of tin atoms in platinumtin alloys. Using Mssbauer spectroscopy,35platinum-rich and tin-rich phases have been observed for platinumtin nanoclusters, which are shown to change in composition during oxidation of carbon monoxide. Theoretical studies have also shown that the interaction of platinum and tin electrons after alloying results in the d band of platinum shifted away from the Fermi level.21a,c The results presented here show that using HERFD XAS and RIXS, the electronic structure of platinum can be probed directly in mono and bimetallic supported particles. We have identified changes in the electronic structure of platinum after being alloyed with tin. RIXS showed a downward shift and narrowing of the d band of platinum relative to the Fermi level after alloying with tin (Fig. 5). The changes in the unfilled d-DOS as measured by the whiteline in the HERFDspectra (Fig. 5(a)) also suggest that alloying platinum with tin influences the electronic structure of platinum. The modification of the electronic structure affects the reactivity of the metal towards the adsorption of reactants, which ultimately affects their reactivity.3,5,18d According to the d band theory3,4 the closer the d band centre is to the Fermi level, the stronger the bonds will be. The adsorption energy of carbon monoxide was shown to be lower for supported platinumtin alloy particles in comparison with supported platinum because of the change in the electronic structure of platinum resulting in a downshift of the platinum d-DOS relative to the Fermi level.36 Density functional theory (DFT) calculations have also shown that adsorption of carbon monoxide is more exothermic for nickelcatalysts, which is also a d9 system like platinum, in comparison to tinnickelcatalysts.5b The differences in both electronic and geometric structures have been proposed as the reasons for the difference in the reactivity of bimetallic nickeltin and monometallic nickelcatalysts. However, these lower values have also been associated with the ensemble effect of tin, which acts to dilute the platinum surface resulting in a lower amount of adsorbed species.7c,20 Adsorption on tin itself has been shown to be unfavorable.37 Although we can not precisely identify the effect of the difference in the geometric structure on the adsorption properties, the intense features in the HERFDspectrum of Pt/Al2O3 (Fig. 5(a)) at 11572.8 eV and 11594.6 eV compared to PtSn/Al2O3 give a clear hint of differences in the geometric structure of platinum after alloying. The geometric difference might result from the smaller particle size of platinum in bimetallic platinumtincatalysts as previously suggested by the lower coordination number of the PtPt absorber-scatterer pair.21b As adsorption of reactants is the first and one of the essential steps for any catalytic process,38 we have studied the structure of our catalysts after adsorption of hydrogen and carbon monoxide as both these adsorbates constitute the main reactants in many reactions. Our results show that the structure of monometallic and bimetallic systems changes significantly after adsorption of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. As explained above (Fig. 1), interaction of the d band of a transition metal with adsorbates result in formation of antibonding and bonding states and result in the changes in the d band of the metal. After adsorption of hydrogen, Pt/Al2O3 shows a much more pronounced antibonding state and shift in the Fermi level than PtSn/Al2O3 (Fig. 6(a)). Moreover, PtSn/Al2O3 experiences a smaller change in its structure upon adsorption of hydrogen (Fig. 4(b)). This might be due to the geometric effect of alloying with tin and to the different electronic structure of the alloy, which does not favour adsorption. This is also confirmed by the lower downward shift of the d band for PtSn/Al2O3 compared to Pt/Al2O3 (Fig. 6(b) and (c)). Thus, the difference in the electronic structure between the two catalysts affects the bonding of hydrogen, as identified by the difference in the H/Pt values for these catalysts. In contrast, the adsorption of carbon monoxide results in a similar electronic and geometric structure of platinum for both samples (Fig. 7). The HERFD spectra of both catalysts after adsorption of carbon monoxide are very similar. The resemblance of the whitelines and the intense features at 11581.2 eV, and 11594.6 eV for both the samples suggest that adsorption of carbon monoxide occurs on geometrically similar structures for monometallic and bimetallic systems. A previous study on a bimetallic system of platinumgoldclusters had shown that these clusters bind carbon monoxide more strongly than hydrogen.39 The changes in the structure of monometallic platinum, gold, and bimetallic platinumgoldclusters after adsorption of hydrogen40 and ethene41 have been reported previously. The reconstruction of the bimetallic particles has been proposed upon adsorption of carbon monoxide.39,42 Our results have shown a big change in the structure of platinum in PtSn/Al2O3 after adsorption of carbon monoxide (Fig. 4(b)), which suggests that stronger adsorption of carbon monoxide than hydrogen changes the particle geometry and the platinumtin distribution.
We have successfully identified the structure of monometallic and bimetallic supported particles using HERFD and RIXS. This study shows the differences in the electronic and, to some extent, the geometric structure of these monometallic and bimetallic systems, with the d band of platinum shifting down relative to the Fermi level in the bimetallic system. The adsorption of hydrogen and carbon monoxide resulted in changes in the electronic structure of both the systems. However, the adsorption of carbon monoxide resulted in significant changes in the geometric structure of the mixed tinplatinum particles.
5. Conclusions
The structure of nanometre sized monometallic platinum and bimetallic platinumtin particles was identified utilizing HERFDXAS and RIXS. The d band of platinum after alloying with tin becomes narrow and shows a downward shift relative to the Fermi level. These changes in the structure result in lower adsorption of hydrogen and carbon monoxide over the bimetallic system than the monometallic system. The electronic and geometric structures of platinum in monometallic and bimetallic systems are very different after hydrogen adsorption but very similar after carbon monoxide absorption, which suggests that the geometric structure of the particles changes because of the strong adsorption of carbon monoxide.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 