<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as CuPt near-surface alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures can pull the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. The results suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer. The onset of bulk migration of Cu is explained by the results with adsorbed CO, and the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces, likely extending to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures can pull the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy, forming a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. The findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures can pull the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. The results are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. The CuPt near-surface alloy (NSA) was suggested as a promising water-gas shift catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer. However, the NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy (SA) structure. The results are confirmed by extended density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity. The vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation. The calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG). The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, and the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur at this temperature. The DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm the rationalization of the observed Cu surface segregation. The results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy. This segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure, which is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, which could apply to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy. This segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure, which is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, which could apply to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          双金属催化剂的稳定性、表面分层和结构配置,特别是在基于Pt的系统如CuPt近表面合金中,受到热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。在升高的压力和温度下,CO吸附可以将反应性较低的Cu拉到表面,这是由稳定的自组织CO/CuPt表面合金结构的形成驱动的。当Cu存在于Pt的第一表面层时,这可以通过PtCO键的显著增强来解释。结果表明,对于各种应用的催化性能和性质,包括水煤气变换反应,选择性和动态合金表面工程的新可能性。DFT计算证实了观察到的Cu表面分层和随着第二层Cu含量增加PtCO键的减弱。吸附CO的结果解释了Cu的体迁移的开始,并且Cu和Pt的互扩散在460 K时变得显著,这是稳定CO诱导的表面合金的形成和分解开始的地方。结果增加了使用分子吸附物诱导的表面变化作为选择性和动态合金表面工程工具的前景,可能扩展到各种各样的铜(Cu, Ag)/Pt组双金属表面合金。
双金属催化剂，特别是在Pt基系统如Pt-3d合金中的稳定性，表面分层和结构配置，受到热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。与预期相反，CO在高压和高温下的吸附可以将不太反应性的Cu拉到CuPt近表面合金的表面，形成稳定的自组织CO/CuPt表面合金结构。这是由于当Cu存在于Pt的第一表面层时，PtCO键显著增强。这些发现表明了选择性和动态工程合金表面用于催化的新可能性，可能适用于广泛的铜（Cu，Ag）/Pt组双金属表面合金。
双金属催化剂的稳定性、表面分层和结构配置，特别是在基于Pt的系统如Pt-3d合金中，受到热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。CO吸附在升高的压力和温度下可以将反应性较低的Cu拉到CuPt近表面合金的表面，这是由稳定的自组织CO/CuPt表面合金结构的形成驱动的。这是由于当Cu存在于Pt的第一表面层时，PtCO键的强度大幅增加。这些结果预计适用于一系列的铜（Cu，Ag）/铂族双金属表面合金。吸附物的结合可以诱导局部原子组成和表面结构的变化，改变催化剂的活性和选择性。CuPt近表面合金（NSA）由于在Cu存在于第二层的Pt催化剂表面上，PtCO键的结合力降低，而被建议作为有前景的水煤气变换催化剂。然而，NSA在升高的CO压力和样品温度下是不稳定的，反而形成自组织的CO/CuPt表面合金（SA）结构。这些结果通过扩展的密度泛函理论（DFT）计算得到证实。虽然Cu扩散到第一层是吸热的，但CO结合能的大幅增加足以补偿吸热性。当2/3 ML的Cu存在于第一层时，PtCO键强度的大幅增加解释了观察到的Cu表面分层。与Cu在体相中与清洁Pt(111)上的CO吸附相比，CuPt SA的计算出的较高稳定性几乎等于自由能差（ΔG）。Cu和Pt的互扩散在460 K时变得显著，而稳定的CO诱导的表面合金的形成和分解开始在这一温度下发生。DFT计算重现了实验观察，并确认了观察到的Cu表面分层的解释。在升高的温度和CO压力下，CuPt系统中形成一种新的稳定的CO诱导的表面合金，这些结果很可能扩展到广泛的铜（Cu，Ag）/铂族双金属表面合金。
双金属催化剂，特别是在Pt基系统如Pt-3d合金中的稳定性，表面分层和结构配置，受到热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。与预期相反，CO在高压和高温下的吸附可以将不太反应性的Cu拉到CuPt近表面合金的表面，形成稳定的自组织CO/CuPt表面合金结构。这是由于当Cu存在于Pt的第一表面层时，PtCO键显著增强。这些发现表明了选择性和动态工程合金表面用于催化的新可能性，可能适用于广泛的铜（Cu，Ag）/Pt组双金属表面合金。
双金属催化剂，特别是基于Pt的系统，如Pt-3d合金，其稳定性、表面分层和结构配置受热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。与预期相反，高压和高温下的CO吸附使不太反应性的Cu在CuPt近表面合金中向表面分层。这种分层是由稳定的自组织CO/CuPt表面合金结构的形成驱动的，当Cu存在于Pt的第一表面层时，PtCO键的显著增强可以解释这种现象。这些发现表明了选择性和动态工程合金表面用于催化的新可能性，这可能适用于一系列铜（Cu，Ag）/铂族双金属表面合金。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
