<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Platinum is a popular cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) limits catalytic efficiency. In recent years, Pt-based alloys, which include Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively studied due to their enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation plays a key role in this process, leading to the formation of a pure Pt-skin in the outermost layer of the alloys. This surface segregation is closely related to the enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. The process of Au segregating from the second layer to the surface is exothermic, indicating that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable. However, for the PtCo alloy, the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making the continuous segregation of Co unlikely. Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process of Pt-based alloys. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst. Numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques to understand the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys. For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized. The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process. The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms. The segregation process includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer. The segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly from a kinetics viewpoint. The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic for the PtCo system. Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to the model.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          双金属催化剂的稳定性、表面分层和结构配置，特别是在Pt基系统如Pt-3d合金中，受到热力学偏好和反应条件的影响。铂是PEM燃料电池中流行的阴极电催化剂，但其对氧还原反应(ORR)的缓慢动力学限制了催化效率。近年来，由于Pt基合金(包括Pt和其他过渡金属)的增强ORR活性，对其进行了广泛的研究。表面分层在这个过程中起着关键作用，导致合金外层形成纯Pt皮肤。这种表面分层与Pt基催化剂的增强稳定性密切相关。Au在PtAu合金中表现出强烈的表面分层，而Co通常无法丰富PtCo合金表面。Au从第二层向表面分层的过程是放热的，表明Au表面分层在热力学上是有利的。然而，对于PtCo合金，表面Co原子有更强的倾向迁移到第二层，使得Co的连续分层不太可能。因此，Co向清洁Pt(111)表面分层在热力学上是不利的，在动力学上也是被禁止的。表面分层在Pt基合金的过程中起着关键作用。例如，Stamenkovic等人发现氧还原反应（ORR）在Pt皮肤表面上独特地活跃，反应速率是纯Pt催化剂的四倍。为了理解表面分层对Pt基合金的重要性，已经使用现代实验和计算技术进行了大量研究。对于许多Pt合金系统，已经明确识别了分层趋势，并成功地表征了表面和次表面区域的成分。金属原子的溶解在合金表面上产生了一些缺陷，这些缺陷对重排过程至关重要。这种现象也可以在酸性溶液中观察到，通常伴随着合金金属的溶解和Pt原子的重排。分层过程包括杂质原子的层间迁移、第二层的空位移动和表面层的空位再生。分层模型可以成功地从动力学角度解释这些现象。从1到4的路径描述了一个完整的循环，其中第二层中的杂质原子分层到Pt(111)表面。该过程对于PtAu系统是放热的，而对于PtCo系统则是吸热的。因此，根据模型，Co分层到清洁的Pt(111)表面在热力学上是不利的，并且在动力学上是禁止的。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
