<quotes>

[1] "The effects of support (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2) on the structure and catalytic behavior of supported vanadia in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane were examined over a wide range of vanadium surface densities (0.515.0 VOx/nm2)."
[2] "X-ray diffrac- tion and Raman and UV-visible spectra showed that vanadia exists as highly dispersed species at surface densities below 7 VOx/nm2 on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2."
[3] "Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadate domains and V2O5 crystallites as VOx surface density increases."
[4] "Polyvanadates appear at lower surface densities on ZrO2 and TiO2 than on Al2O3 and HfO2."
[5] "UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow with increasing VOx surface density on all supports."
[6] "Initial propene selectivities increase with increasing VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites, which favor primary combustion pathways, decrease in con- centration."
[7] "Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, which provide a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their acces- sibility to reactants."
[8] "Interactions with supports determine the type of VOx structures present at a given surface density, but turnover rates do not depend on the identity of the support when differences in VOx structure are taken into account."
[9] "Oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates are similar on polyvanadate species and on surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5."
[10] "The relative rates of oxidative dehydro- genation to form propene and of secondary propene oxidation to COx do not depend on the identity of the support or on VOx sur- face density or structure."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The effects of various supports (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2) on the structure and catalytic behavior of supported vanadia in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane were examined over a wide range of vanadium surface densities. Vanadia exists as highly dispersed species at surface densities below 7 VOx/nm2 on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadate domains and V2O5 crystallites as VOx surface density increases. Polyvanadates appear at lower surface densities on ZrO2 and TiO2 than on Al2O3 and HfO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow with increasing VOx surface density on all supports. Initial propene selectivities increase with increasing VOx surface density, as monovanadate species and exposed support sites, which favor primary combustion pathways, decrease in concentration. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, which provide a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants. Interactions with supports determine the type of VOx structures present at a given surface density, but turnover rates do not depend on the identity of the support when differences in VOx structure are taken into account. Oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates are similar on polyvanadate species and on surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of oxidative dehydrogenation to form propene and of secondary propene oxidation to COx do not depend on the identity of the support or on VOx surface density or structure. These findings contribute to the understanding of how the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.研究了各种载体（Al2O3，SiO2，HfO2，TiO2和ZrO2）对丙烷氧化脱氢反应中支撑的钒氧化物结构和催化行为的影响，研究范围涵盖了广泛的钒表面密度。在Al2O3，HfO2，TiO2和ZrO2上，钒氧化物在表面密度低于7 VOx/nm2时以高度分散的物种存在，但在SiO2上则以大V2O5晶体存在。随着VOx表面密度的增加，表面结构从孤立的单钒酸盐演变为聚钒酸盐域和V2O5晶体。聚钒酸盐在ZrO2和TiO2上的表面密度比在Al2O3和HfO2上出现得更低。随着所有载体上VOx域的增大，UV-可见边缘能量降低。随着VOx表面密度的增加，初始丙烯选择性增加，因为单钒酸盐物种和暴露的载体位点，这些位点有利于初级燃烧途径，浓度降低。每V-原子的氧化脱氢速率在VOx域的中间大小时达到最大，这在表面VOx物种的活性和它们对反应物的可及性之间提供了平衡。与载体的相互作用决定了在给定表面密度下存在的VOx结构类型，但在考虑到VOx结构差异时，周转率并不依赖于载体的身份。聚钒酸盐物种和大块V2O5上的表面VOx位点上的氧化脱氢周转率是相似的。形成丙烯的氧化脱氢的相对速率和丙烯的二次氧化到COx并不依赖于载体的身份或VOx表面密度或结构。这些发现有助于理解金属基催化剂，包括支撑的钒氧化物，如何通过其组成，结构和反应条件影响烷烃转化的机制和效率，特别是在氧化脱氢等过程中。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
