<quotes>

[1] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[2] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[3] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[4] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[5] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[6] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[7] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[8] "Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction."
[9] "First, we will introduce the subject by considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied and the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[10] "Next, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts that are currently used in commercial processes will be examined in detail."
[11] "Additionally, other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts will be surveyed."
[12] "For each catalytic material, relevant factors, such as the specific nature of the active sites, as well as the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime, will be discussed."
[13] "Finally, we will compare different catalysts both in terms of the reaction mechanism and deactivation pathways and in terms of catalytic performance."
[14] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[15] "Relative to naphtha cracking, steam cracking of ethane produces a negligible amount of olefins other than ethylene, which is why the supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen sharply, creating opportunities for on-purpose catalytic technologies, such as the catalytic dehydrogenation of light paraffins into the corresponding olefins."
[16] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[17] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[18] "In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[19] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[20] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[21] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[22] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by taking advantage of the favorable market conditions determined by the price difference between propane and propylene. PDH is an on-purpose technique that yields a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized to produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. The high availability of relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States. The supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen sharply, creating opportunities for PDH technologies. Dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction. There is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, with increased demand from the automotive industry and a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, resulting in sharp increases in butadiene prices. This has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan.
2.Innovative catalyst design strategies being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes include the use of Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, as well as other metal oxides such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx. The specific nature of the active sites, the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime are discussed for each catalytic material. Different catalysts are compared in terms of the reaction mechanism, deactivation pathways, and catalytic performance.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过利用丙烷和丙烯价格差决定的有利市场条件，解决了工业对丙烯日益增长的需求和传统生产方法的局限性。PDH是一种有目的的技术，它产生特定的烯烃，而不是混合产品，工业过程被优化以生产聚合物质量纯度的烯烃。特别是乙烷的相对便宜的大量可用性，导致了美国从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩的乙烷用于蒸汽裂解装置。丙烯的供应下降，价格急剧上升，为PDH技术创造了机会。全球宣布了数十个新的PDH装置，其中许多装置已经在建设中。对于丁烷的脱氢，也有类似有利的市场情况，由于来自汽车行业的高需求和由于石脑油裂解的高成本导致的供应减少，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨。这激发了在美国、中国和日本投资新的丁烷脱氢(BDH)装置。
2.为了解决失活问题，提高稳定性和改善循环性，在氧化和非氧化PDH过程中正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，包括使用Pt-和CrOx基催化剂，以及其它金属氧化物，如GaOx、VOx、MoOx和InOx。对于每种催化材料，讨论了活性位点的特定性质，以及支撑、促进剂和反应进料对催化剂性能和寿命的影响。从反应机制、失活途径和催化性能方面比较了不同的催化剂。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
