<quotes>

[1] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[2] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[3] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[4] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[5] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[6] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[7] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[8] "Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction."
[9] "First, we will introduce the subject by considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied and the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[10] "Next, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts that are currently used in commercial processes will be examined in detail."
[11] "Additionally, other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts will be surveyed."
[12] "For each catalytic material, relevant factors, such as the specific nature of the active sites, as well as the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime, will be discussed."
[13] "Finally, we will compare different catalysts both in terms of the reaction mechanism and deactivation pathways and in terms of catalytic performance."
[14] "Two main processes cause the deactivation of Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts."
[15] "First and foremost, the side reactions that form carbon deposits on the catalyst surface lead to the coverage of the active sites with coke, which results in a drop in activity."
[16] "As it is not possible to completely prevent coke deposition, the catalyst needs to be regenerated frequently by combusting the coke deposits."
[17] "However, the high temperature of both the regeneration process and the dehydrogenation reaction triggers the agglomeration or sintering of the platinum nanoparticles, the concomitant loss in active sites also resulting in catalyst deactivation."
[18] "Two main processes are believed to lead to the dissolution of Cr3+ into the Al2O3 carrier and result in catalytically inactive Cr3+ species."
[19] "First, the sintering of the alumina may cause entrapment of the Cr species inside the bulk of the support."
[20] "As an additional effect, the loss of alumina surface area reduces the ability of the support to stabilize Cr6+ species formed during the regeneration step."
[21] "Consequently, Cr3+ ions migrate into the support."
[22] "Indeed, it is believed that the similar ionic radii and charge of Al3+ and Cr3+ facilitate the diffusion and subsequent incorporation of Cr3+ into the octahedral sites of alumina, which produces a type of chromiaalumina spinel that is inactive for the dehydrogenation reaction."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by taking advantage of the favorable market conditions determined by the price difference between propane and propylene. PDH is an on-purpose technique that yields a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products, and it can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. The profitability of PDH is enhanced by the current market conditions, and dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, many of which are already under construction. The dehydrogenation of butanes is also advantageous due to increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, and a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, resulting in sharp increases in butadiene prices and sparking investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations.
2.Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The focus is on providing a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction, considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied, the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction, and the nature of the active sites of Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts. Other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts, are also being surveyed. The effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime is being discussed, and different catalysts are being compared in terms of the reaction mechanism, deactivation pathways, and catalytic performance. Strategies to overcome deactivation issues include understanding the causes of deactivation, such as the formation of carbon deposits on the catalyst surface leading to the coverage of active sites with coke and the agglomeration or sintering of platinum nanoparticles, and developing methods to regenerate the catalysts by combusting the coke deposits. In the case of CrOx-based catalysts, the dissolution of Cr3+ into the Al2O3 carrier and the entrapment of Cr species inside the bulk of the support due to the sintering of the alumina are being addressed to prevent the formation of catalytically inactive Cr3+ species.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过利用丙烷和丙烯价格差异决定的有利市场条件，解决了工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的问题。PDH是一种有目的的技术，可以产生特定的烯烃，而不是混合产品，并且可以生产聚合物级纯度的烯烃。PDH的盈利能力在当前市场条件下得到增强，全球宣布了数十个新的PDH装置，其中许多已经处于建设中。由于汽车行业的特别需求增加，以及由于石脑油裂解的高成本导致供应减少，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨，丁烷脱氢(BDH)装置的新投资被激发。
2.正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服PDH过程中氧化和非氧化过程中的失活问题，提高稳定性，改善可回收性。重点是提供一个关于催化脱氢反应的材料的完整概述，考虑已获得专利和应用的工业过程，脱氢反应的热力学，以及Pt-和CrOx基催化剂的活性位点的性质。其他金属氧化物，如GaOx，VOx，MoOx和InOx，也被证明是很有前景的脱氢催化剂，正在被调查。正在讨论支撑，促进剂和反应进料对催化剂性能和寿命的影响，并且正在根据反应机制，失活途径和催化性能比较不同的催化剂。克服失活问题的策略包括了解失活的原因，如催化剂表面形成碳沉积物，导致活性位点被焦炭覆盖，以及铂纳米粒子的聚集或烧结，并开发方法通过燃烧焦炭沉积物来再生催化剂。在CrOx基催化剂的情况下，Cr3+溶解到Al2O3载体中，以及由于氧化铝烧结导致Cr物种在支撑体内部的捕获，正在被解决，以防止形成催化不活跃的Cr3+物种。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
