<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The literature does not provide a historical overview of chromium oxide-based catalysts since their discovery in 1933. However, it does mention that high-loaded Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are very active and selective in the dehydrogenation reaction to produce light alkenes, crucial for the chemical industry, particularly for the production of polypropylene. The increasing demand for propene due to the growing polypropylene market has led to extensive research on the molecular structure of supported chromium oxides, the nature of the active chromium oxide site, and deactivation routes. The focus is on understanding the reaction mechanism of this industrially important catalytic system, which is not well studied, especially for supported chromium oxide catalysts. The literature discusses the dehydrogenation mechanism over a Cr3+-O site supported on a high-surface oxide, involving the activation of the CH bond by reacting with a coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ center, leading to the formation of a new OH group and a Cr-alkyl bond. The alkene is formed by hydrogen transfer from the alkyl to Cr, which is thought to be the rate-determining step. The reaction cycle is completed by the formation of H2 and the regeneration of the Cr3+-O active site. Another possible mechanism involves the addition of ethane to a hydrochromium site, leading to the formation of Cr-Ethyl and molecular H2, followed by b-H transfer to Cr and ethene desorption. The literature also discusses the role of coke deposits in alkane dehydrogenation reactions, suggesting that carbon nanomaterials could be active catalyst materials in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene. The goal of the paper is to elucidate if carbon deposits are active in the dehydrogenation of ethane and to extend the work of Burwell on alumina-supported chromium oxide catalysts. The literature does not provide a historical overview of chromium oxide-based catalysts since their discovery in 1933, nor does it detail the evolution of these catalysts. However, it does mention that high-loaded Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are very active and selective in the dehydrogenation reaction, which is crucial for the production of light alkenes, particularly propylene for polypropylene production. The increasing demand for propene due to the growing polypropylene market has led to extensive research on the molecular structure of supported chromium oxides, the nature of the active chromium oxide site, and deactivation routes. The focus of recent research has been on the elucidation of the reaction mechanism of this industrially important catalytic system, with particular attention to the role of CrO moieties with chromium in its tri- or divalent state as the active site for CH activation. The literature also discusses the possible involvement of coke deposits in alkane dehydrogenation reactions and the role of supported chromium oxide species in the formation of such deposits. The literature does not provide a historical overview of chromium oxide-based catalysts since their discovery in 1933. It focuses on the mechanistic study of ethane dehydrogenation over Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, discussing the reaction mechanism, the role of active sites, and the use of isotopic labeling experiments to elucidate the reaction pathway. The key industrial application highlighted is the production of light alkenes, particularly ethylene, which is crucial for the chemical industry and the production of polypropylene. The research focuses on understanding the molecular structure of supported chromium oxides, the nature of the active chromium oxide site, and deactivation routes. The literature does not provide a historical overview of chromium oxide-based catalysts since their discovery in 1933. However, it does mention that high-loaded Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are very active and selective in the dehydrogenation reaction, which is important for the production of light alkenes, particularly propylene for polypropylene production. The increasing demand for propene due to the growing polypropylene market has initiated many research activities in both academia and chemical industries. The focus of research has been on the molecular structure of supported chromium oxides, the nature of the active chromium oxide site, and possible short- and long-term deactivation routes. Surprisingly, not much study has been devoted to the elucidation of the reaction mechanism of this industrially important catalytic system. The literature does not provide a historical overview of chromium oxide-based catalysts since their discovery in 1933, nor does it detail the evolution of these catalysts. However, it does mention that high-loaded Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are very active and selective in the dehydrogenation reaction, which is of key importance to the development of chemical industries, particularly in the production of high-purity propylene for polypropylene. The increasing demand for propene due to the growing polypropylene market has initiated many research activities in both academia and chemical industries. In the last decade, a significant amount of knowledge has been gathered regarding the molecular structure of supported chromium oxides, the nature of the active chromium oxide site, and the possible short- and long-term deactivation routes. Surprisingly, not much study has been devoted to the elucidation of the reaction mechanism of this industrially important catalytic system.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          文献没有提供自1933年发现以来铬氧化物基催化剂的历史概览。但是，它确实提到高负载的Cr/Al2O3催化剂在脱氢反应中非常活跃和选择性，用于生产轻烯烃，这对化学工业至关重要，特别是用于生产聚丙烯。由于聚丙烯市场的增长，对丙烯的需求不断增加，这导致了对支撑铬氧化物的分子结构、活性铬氧化物位点的性质以及失活途径的广泛研究。重点在于理解这个工业上重要的催化系统的反应机制，这在支撑铬氧化物催化剂中研究得不够充分。文献讨论了在支撑在高表面氧化物上的Cr3+-O位点上的脱氢机制，涉及通过与配位不饱和的Cr3+中心反应激活CH键，导致形成新的OH基团和Cr-烷基键。通过从烷基到Cr的氢转移形成烯烃，这被认为是速率决定步骤。通过H2的形成和Cr3+-O活性位点的再生完成反应循环。另一种可能的机制涉及乙烷添加到氢铬位点，导致Cr-Ethyl和分子H2的形成，随后是b-H转移到Cr和乙烯解吸。文献还讨论了在烷烃脱氢反应中焦炭沉积物的作用，表明碳纳米材料可能是乙基苯氧化脱氢到苯乙烯的活性催化剂材料。论文的目标是阐明碳沉积物是否在乙烷脱氢中具有活性，并将Burwell关于氧化铝支撑的铬氧化物催化剂的工作扩展到氧化铝支撑的铬氧化物催化剂上。文献没有提供自1933年发现以来铬氧化物基催化剂的历史概览，也没有详细描述这些催化剂的演变。但是，它确实提到高负载的Cr/Al2O3催化剂在脱氢反应中非常活跃和选择性，这对轻烯烃，特别是用于聚丙烯生产的丙烯的生产至关重要。由于聚丙烯市场的增长，对丙烯的需求不断增加，这导致了对支撑铬氧化物的分子结构，活性铬氧化物位点的性质以及失活途径的广泛研究。最近的研究重点是阐明这个工业上重要的催化系统的反应机制，特别关注CrO基团中三价或二价状态的铬作为CH活化活性位点的作用。文献还讨论了焦炭沉积物在烷烃脱氢反应中的可能作用，以及支撑铬氧化物物种在形成此类沉积物中的作用。文献没有提供自1933年发现以来铬氧化物基催化剂的历史概览。它专注于Cr/Al2O3催化剂上乙烷脱氢的机理研究，讨论了反应机制，活性位点的作用，以及使用同位素标记实验来阐明反应途径。突出的关键工业应用是轻烯烃的生产，特别是乙烯，这对化学工业和聚丙烯的生产至关重要。研究重点是理解支撑铬氧化物的分子结构，活性铬氧化物位点的性质，以及失活途径。文献没有提供自1933年发现以来铬氧化物基催化剂的历史概览。但是，它确实提到高负载的Cr/Al2O3催化剂在脱氢反应中非常活跃和选择性，这对于轻烯烃的生产，特别是用于聚丙烯生产的丙烯非常重要。由于聚丙烯市场不断增长，对丙烯的需求日益增加，这在学术界和化工行业引发了大量研究活动。研究的重点是支撑铬氧化物的分子结构，活性铬氧化物位点的性质，以及可能的短期和长期失活途径。令人惊讶的是，没有多少研究致力于阐明这种工业上重要的催化系统的反应机制。文献没有提供自1933年发现以来铬氧化物基催化剂的历史概览，也没有详细描述这些催化剂的演变。但是，它确实提到高负载的Cr/Al2O3催化剂在脱氢反应中非常活跃和选择性，这对化学工业的发展至关重要，特别是在生产高纯度丙烯用于聚丙烯方面。由于聚丙烯市场不断增长，对丙烯的需求不断增加，这在学术界和化工行业引发了大量研究活动。在过去十年中，已经收集了大量关于支撑铬氧化物的分子结构、活性铬氧化物位点的性质以及可能的短期和长期失活途径的知识。令人惊讶的是，没有太多的研究致力于阐明这种工业上重要的催化系统的反应机制。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
