<quotes>
Chapter 12 is the lone contribution dealing with synthetic methods and is specifically aimed at combinatorial synthesis and high-throughput evaluation. Chapters 1315 cover alkane reactions on metal oxides, specifically propane selective oxidation, methane oxidation, and oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes, and are followed by a chapter, coauthored by the editor, on olefin metathesis. Chapters 17 and 18 target total combustion of volatile organic compounds and hydrogenation reactions, respectively. Photocatalysis for splitting water is covered in Chapters 19 and 20 for TiO2-based systems and RuO2-promoted p-block (d10) metal oxides, respectively. Chapter 21 covers selective catalytic reduction for NOx abatement using ammonia or hydrocarbons for selective reduction on metal oxides, and Chapter 22 is a discussion of semiconducting SnO2 gas sensors. The volume concludes with an overview of solid oxide fuel cell anode materials.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This volume comprises 23 chapters, 15 of which are focused directly on catalytic chemistry and applications of transition-metal oxides. The first five chapters contain a variety of topics that do not appear to have any particular logical order. Chapters 1 and 2 deal with molecular species of early transition-metal oxides on various metal oxide supports. These are followed by a short, but well-written, general chapter on point defect thermodynamics and the kinetics of transport in oxides. The fourth chapter jumps to a discussion of the characterization of metal valence states using electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) and energy-filtered imaging in transmission electron microscopy, illustrated with several well-chosen examples. The uninitiated reader may have problems appreciating the key issues with EELS spectra that make this approach succeed or fail in providing valence quantification. The topic for Chapter 5 is the evaluation of surface composition, which is a critical issue for understanding the catalytic chemistry on transition-metal oxide surfaces and is an area in which unambiguous characterization poses some very significant challenges.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这本卷集包含23章，其中15章直接关注过渡金属氧化物的催化化学和应用。前五章包含了一系列没有明显逻辑顺序的主题。第1章和第2章讨论早期过渡金属氧化物的分子物种及其在各种金属氧化物支持上的应用。随后是一篇关于氧化物中点缺陷热力学和传输动力学的一般性简短但写得很好的章节。第四章跳转到使用电子能量损失光谱（EELS）和透射电子显微镜的能量过滤成像来表征金属价态的讨论，附有许多精心选择的例子。未受过训练的读者可能会发现理解EELS光谱的关键问题以及这种方法在提供价量化方面成功或失败的挑战。第5章的主题是评估表面组成，这是理解过渡金属氧化物表面的催化化学的关键问题，并且是在不明确的特征化方面存在一些非常显著挑战的领域。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

---

There are no relevant quotes provided for the second question.
