element not found
element not found
Journals
Physical Review Letters
Physical Review X
PRX Energy
PRX Life
PRX Quantum
Reviews of Modern Physics
Physical Review A
Physical Review B
Physical Review C
Physical Review D
Physical Review E
Physical Review Research
Physical Review Accelerators and Beams
Physical Review Applied
Physical Review Fluids
Physical Review Materials
Physical Review Physics Education Research
Physical Review
Physical Review (Series I)
Physics Physique Fizika
Physics Magazine
Help/Feedback
Log in
REVIEWS OF MODERN PHYSICS
Recent
Accepted
Authors
Referees
Search
Press
About
Editorial Team
Go Mobile »
Access by Tianjin University
Theoretical approaches to x-ray absorption fine structure
J. J. Rehr and R. C. Albers
Rev. Mod. Phys. 72, 621 – Published 1 July 2000
More
Article
References
Citing Articles (2,715)
PDFExport Citation
ABSTRACT
Dramatic advances in the understanding of x-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) have been made over the past few decades, which have led ultimately to a highly quantitative theory. This review covers these developments from a unified multiple-scattering viewpoint. The authors focus on extended x-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) well above an x-ray edge, and, to a lesser extent, on x-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) closer to an edge. The discussion includes both formal considerations, derived from a many-electron formulation, and practical computational methods based on independent-electron models, with many-body effects lumped into various inelastic losses and energy shifts. The main conceptual issues in XAFS theory are identified and their relative importance is assessed; these include the convergence of the multiple-scattering expansion, curved-wave effects, the scattering potential, inelastic losses, self-energy shifts, and vibrations and structural disorder. The advantages and limitations of current computational approaches are addressed, with particular regard to quantitative experimental comparisons.
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1103/RevModPhys.72.621
©2000 American Physical Society
AUTHORS & AFFILIATIONS
J. J. Rehr
Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195
R. C. Albers
Theoretical Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545
REFERENCES
CLICK TO EXPAND
Issue
Vol. 72, Iss. 3 — July - September 2000
Reuse & Permissions
Sign up to receive regular email alerts from Reviews of Modern Physics
Sign up
APS
Current Issue
Earlier Issues
News & Announcements
About this Journal
Editorial Team
About the Journals
Join APS
AUTHORS
General Information
Submit a Manuscript
Publication Rights
Open Access
Editorial Procedures
Tips for Authors
Professional Conduct
REFEREES
General Information
Submit a Report
Update Your Information
Editorial Procedures
Referee FAQ
Guidelines for Referees
Outstanding Referees
LIBRARIANS
General Information
Subscriptions
Online License Agreement
Usage Statistics
Your Account
STUDENTS
Physics
PhysicsCentral
Student Membership
APS MEMBERS
Subscriptions
Article Packs
Membership
FAQ
APS News
Meetings & Events
Privacy
Policies
Contact Information
Feedback
ISSN 1539-0756 (online), 0034-6861 (print). ©2024 American Physical Society. All rights reserved. Reviews of Modern Physics™ is a trademark of the American Physical Society, registered in the United States, Canada, European Union, and Japan. The APS Physics logo and Physics logo are trademarks of the American Physical Society. Information about registration may be found here. Use of the American Physical Society websites and journals implies that the user has read and agrees to our Terms and Conditions and any applicable Subscription Agreement.
This site uses cookies. To find out more, read our Privacy Policy. I Agree