<quotes>
[1] "The oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane by cobalt oxide nanoparticles was studied via temperature programmed reaction combined with in situ grazing incidence X-ray absorption spectroscopy and grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering and theoretical calculations on model Co3O4 substrates."
[2] "The selectivity of the catalyst was found to be size- and temperature-dependent, with larger particles preferentially producing cyclohexene at lower temperatures and smaller particles predominantly resulting in benzene at higher temperatures."
[3] "The mechanistic features thought to control the oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and other light alkanes on cobalt oxide were established by carrying out density functional theory calculations on the activation of propane, a surrogate model alkane."
[4] "For example, nanocrystalline Co3O4 with an average size of 12 nm shows 100% selectivity toward the conversion of propane to propene under ambient pressure and temperature conditions."
[5] "The reason for the special reactivity of these nanocrystalline clusters is still unclear, but was suggested to be related to the change in reducibility (12) of Co3O4 and the abundance of superficial O species."
[6] "In situ GIXAS indicated no change in the oxidation state of the 6 nm size particles during the reaction."
[7] "However, under ODH conditions, there is enough oxygen to keep the cobalt oxide in the active Co3O4 state."
[8] "On the basis of the GIXANES data, this appears to be true for both samples."
[9] "The lower than expected activity can be understood as follows."
[10] "The presence of oxygen is critical as it replenishes the active surface O*-O* sites which carry out CH bond activation and the formation and removal of water."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane was studied using a combination of temperature-programmed reactions, in situ grazing incidence X-ray absorption spectroscopy, grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering, and theoretical calculations on model Co3O4 substrates.
2. The selectivity of the catalyst is influenced by both particle size and temperature, with larger particles favoring the production of cyclohexene at lower temperatures and smaller particles predominantly yielding benzene at higher temperatures.
3. The mechanism controlling the oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and other light alkanes on cobalt oxide was elucidated through density functional theory calculations on the activation of propane, a surrogate model alkane.
4. Nanocrystalline Co3O4 with an average size of 12 nm exhibits 100% selectivity for converting propane to propene under ambient conditions.
5. The enhanced reactivity of nanocrystalline Co3O4 clusters is attributed to changes in reducibility and the abundance of surface oxygen species.
6. In situ GIXAS measurements did not reveal any changes in the oxidation state of the catalyst during the reaction.
7. Under oxidative dehydrogenation conditions, there is sufficient oxygen to maintain the cobalt oxide in the active Co3O4 state.
8. Based on the GIXANES data, both catalyst samples appear to transform into the active Co3O4 phase during the reaction.
9. The observed lower activity can be explained by the assembly of larger particles during the reaction, which reduces the exposed surface area of the catalyst.
10. The presence of oxygen is essential as it replenishes the active surface sites necessary for CH bond activation and the formation/removal of water.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究人员通过结合温度程序反应、原位格栅入射X射线吸收光谱、原位格栅入射小角度X射线散射和在模型Co3O4基底上进行的理论计算，对钴氧化物纳米颗粒催化的环己烷氧化脱氢进行了研究。
2. 催化剂的选择性受到颗粒大小和温度的影响，较大颗粒在较低温度下更倾向于生成环己烯，而较小颗粒在较高温度下主要产生苯。
3. 通过对丙烷（一种模型烷烃）激活过程的密度泛函理论计算，研究人员揭示了环己烷和其他轻烷烃在钴氧化物上的氧化脱氢机制。
4. 平均直径为12纳米的纳米结晶Co3O4在常压条件下对丙烷转化为丙烯表现出100%的选择性。
5. 这些纳米晶簇活性增强的原因可能与Co3O4的还原性变化和表面氧物种丰度增加有关。
6. 在氧化脱氢过程中，催化剂的氧化态没有发生变化，表明在反应期间保持了活性状态。
7. 在氧化脱氢条件下，有足够的氧气使钴氧化物保持在活性的Co3O4状态。
8. 根据原位GIXANES数据，两个催化剂样品在反应过程中都转化为了活性的Co3O4相。
9. 观察到的较低活性可以归因于反应过程中颗粒的聚集，导致催化剂暴露的表面积减少。
10. 氧气的存在至关重要，因为它补充了用于CH键活化以及水形成和去除的活性表面位点。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
