<quotes>

[1] "Halogen-mediated functionalization of hydrocarbons, which has a long history in fine chemical synthesis, has emerged as a particularly attractive approach for the selective activation of light hydrocarbons under mild conditions (Figure 27)."

[2] "The direct halogenation of alkane produces alkyl halides that are deemed as versatile building blocks to synthesize a broad spectrum of commodities following an additional halide elimination step in which the halogen atom is eliminated in the form of HX. (61, 194, 264)"

[3] "Disadvantageously, the maximal halogen efficiency in halogenation is restricted to 50%, with the rest of halogen ending up as HX. Thus, both the halogenation and subsequent transformation of alkyl halides release HX, which has to be recycled in order to close the loop of expensive halogens (Figure 27, top, green)."

[4] "An integrated process for the functionalization of natural gas with bromine was proposed by McFarland and Stucky et al. in 2003. (277-280) A multiple-step conversion from methane to oxygenates (methanol and dimethyl ether, DME) was disclosed in the patent, comprising methane bromination and metal oxide-catalyzed hydrolysis of methyl bromide in separate reactors."

[5] "This process based on the catalysts is quite similar to the EVC route, as both employed the fluidized-bed reactor for the oxychlorination section and an additional hydrogenation step for chlorinated byproduct recycling. However, chlorine can be directly introduced in the oxychlorination reactor in this newly developed process, thus the chlorination step is omitted."

[6] "Still, the limited selling option and high cost for neutralizing HCl triggered the industrial and academic research in the past decade to hunt for novel catalysts capable of overcoming the above issues, particularly in relation to chlorine recycling in PU and PC manufactures."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Halogen-mediated functionalization of hydrocarbons, including dehydrogenation, oxyhalogenation, and dehydrogenation with halogens, offers a selective activation of light hydrocarbons under mild conditions. The direct halogenation of alkanes generates alkyl halides, which are versatile building blocks for the synthesis of a wide range of commodities through additional halide elimination. The efficiency of halogenation is capped at 50%, leaving the remainder as HX, which must be recycled to close the loop of expensive halogens. An integrated process was proposed by McFarland and Stucky for the functionalization of natural gas with bromine, involving separate reactors for methane bromination and the metal oxide-catalyzed hydrolysis of methyl bromide. This process omits the chlorination step, unlike traditional methods. The limited market for HCl and its high neutralization cost have spurred recent research efforts to develop novel catalysts capable of addressing these challenges, particularly for the recycling of chlorine in the production of polyurethane and polyvinyl chloride (PU and PC).

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
卤素介导的烃类功能化，包括脱氢、氧卤化和使用卤素的脱氢，提供了在温和条件下选择性活化轻烃的方法。烷基卤化物的直接卤化产生烷基卤化物，这些是合成一系列商品的多用途构建块，通过额外的卤素消除步骤。卤化效率受限于50%，其余部分以HX形式存在，需要循环利用以关闭昂贵卤素的闭环。McFarland和Stucky提出了一个集成过程，使用天然气体的溴化进行功能化，涉及分别用于甲烷溴化和金属氧化物催化水解甲基溴化物的反应器。该过程省去了氯化步骤，与传统方法不同。HCl的有限市场及其高中和成本激发了近十年的研究工作，旨在开发新型催化剂以克服上述问题，尤其是针对聚氨酯和聚氯乙烯（PU和PC）生产中的氯回收。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
