<quotes>
[1] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[2] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[3] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[4] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[5] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[6] "Moreover, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right."
[7] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[8] "In fact, the United States already obtains one-quarter of their natural gas production from shale gas deposits, and this is expected to rise even further in the coming years due to the emphasis that is being given to the attainment of energy independence."
[9] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[10] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The petrochemical industry is facing challenges due to high energy demands, low selectivity for olefin production, diminishing oil reserves, and rising oil prices. These factors are driving the industry to seek more cost-effective feedstocks and more efficient conversion methods. Propane dehydrogenation is profitable because of the significant price difference between propane and propylene, indicating favorable market conditions. Shale gas deposits contain substantial amounts of natural gas liquids (NGLs), including ethane and propane, which are easily separated from natural gas. This has led to investments in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) facilities in the US, China, and Japan. The number of new propane dehydrogenation (PDH) installations is anticipated to grow significantly in the coming years, with dozens of new installations announced worldwide, many already under construction. The products derived from olefins are shown in the graph to the right. In 2007, only about 3% of propylene was produced using direct methods, while the majority was produced through FCC and steam cracking processes. The US obtains about a quarter of its natural gas production from shale gas deposits, a trend expected to increase due to efforts towards energy independence. The abundance of relatively inexpensive ethane from shale gas has facilitated a shift from naphtha-based steam cracking to ethane-based steam cracking in the US, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted. Shale gas deposits contain significant quantities of NGLs, including ethane and propane, which are easily separable from natural gas.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
由于高能源需求、低特定烯烃生产选择性、石油储量减少以及油价上涨等因素，石油化工行业正在寻求更经济的原料和更高效的转化技术。丙烷脱氢因其丙烷和丙烯价格差而利润丰厚，表明市场条件非常有利。除了甲烷外，页岩气田还含有大量天然气液体（NGL），如乙烷和丙烷，这些液体很容易从天然气中分离出来。这导致美国、中国和日本等国家对新的丁烷脱氢（BDH）设施进行了投资。预计未来几年新丙烷脱氢（PDH）装置的数量将大幅增长，已有数十个新装置宣布并正在建设中。图右显示了由这些烯烃产生的产品。2007年，仅约3%的丙烯是通过直接方法生产的，而大部分是通过催化裂化（FCC）和蒸汽裂解过程产生的。美国已经从页岩气田获得其天然气产量的四分之一，并且预计这一比例将进一步增加，因为正在努力实现能源独立。由于页岩气中相对便宜的乙烷丰富，美国已转向使用乙烷进行蒸汽裂解，而不是使用石脑油，因此建造了乙烷裂解器，而石脑油裂解器则被拆除或转换。页岩气田含有大量NGL，包括乙烷和丙烷，这些液体可以从天然气中轻松分离。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
