Structure and Bonding (2004) 112:151-
-183
DOI 10.1007/b97939
 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2004
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics
of Transition Metal Compounds
Jeremy N. Harvey
School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantocks Close, Bristol, BS8 1TS, UK
jeremy.harvey@bris.ac.uk
1
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
152
2
Wavefunction and DFT Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
155
2.1
Wavefunction Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
155
2.2
Density Functional Theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
157
3
Spin-State Splitting in Main-Group Compounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
162
4
Spin-State Splitting in TM Compounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
164
4.1
Atoms and Atomic Ions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
164
4.2
Organometallic and Coordination Complexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
166
4.2.1
Iron Tetracarbonyl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
167
4.2.2
Exact Exchange and Spin-State Splitting: Other Observations . . . . . . . . .
170
5
Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
176
6
Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
181
References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
182
Abstract DFT is often used to predict the energetics of transition metal compounds. In
particular, energy differences between states of different spin are of great interest. This
review discusses the accuracy of such computations for spin-state splittings of monome-
tallic complexes where the differences in spin-pairing occur mostly or exclusively on the
metal itself. Large differences are found for computed splittings using different function-
als, in particular between pure and hybrid functionals. An optimum exact exchange ad-
mixture of ~15% seems to yield accurate results in many cases, but experimental and es-
pecially theoretical uncertainties suggest that this should not be relied upon, and the de-
velopment of new functionals is seen to be highly desirable.
Keywords DFT · Spin-state · Transition Metals · Exact exchange · Self-interaction
List of Abbreviations
TM
Transition Metal
DFT
Density functional theory
HF
Hartree-Fock
1
Introduction
The problem of predicting the structure of and the nature of bonding in sta-
ble organic or main-group inorganic compounds is comparatively straight-
forward in the sense that the qualitative features of the electronic wavefunc-
tion of the ground state of the species are usually known. Most of these mo-
lecules have closed-shell configurations, with all of their electrons paired up
to give a singlet spin state. Of course, even in this area of chemistry there
are exceptions to this rule. For example, many “free radicals”, with one un-
paired electron, are known, and although many of these are intermediates
with a low lifetime, some can be isolated in pure form. There are also several
well-known types of reactive intermediate with more than one unpaired
electron. For example, divalent carbon compounds, or carbenes, have two
electrons on the carbon atom that do not participate directly in bonding,
and which can occupy two orbitals. As a result, carbenes often have several
close-lying electronic states, the most important of which are the open-shell
triplet, and the closed-shell singlet. In fact, depending on the substituents
on the carbon, either of these can be the ground state. Such systems are
however exceptions within organic and main group chemistry. For most
compounds in these fields, the nature of the electronic ground state is fairly
predictable. This is not to deny that there are many other difficulties associ-
ated with theoretical studies of their structure and bonding!
Transition metal (TM) chemistry stands in contrast to this. Many com-
pounds involve metal centres with partially filled d shells, and/or with one
or several unpaired electrons. Therefore, it is not always straightforward to
predict the orbital occupation pattern of a given stable compound. For inter-
mediates on a reactive pathway, this is an even greater problem. This is also
true for organometallic chemistry, despite the fact that many compounds
obey the 18-electron rule and have closed-shell singlet ground states. Thus,
there are many 16- or even 14-electron intermediates, odd-electron species
[1], and polymetallic clusters and complexes for which the spin state is not
readily predicted.
Computational and theoretical chemistry has a very important role to
play in helping to predict and rationalize the nature of the electronic ground
state of TM compounds. Being able to do so is critical in many respects, if
one wishes to predict the structure, properties, and reactivity of such com-
pounds. First of all, the predicted structure and properties (for example the
spectroscopic features) will of course be very different for different spin
states. Of more interest to our research group is the notion that reactivity
often crucially depends on the preferred spin state of reactants, products
and intermediates. Thus, we have shown elsewhere (for reviews, see [2–4])
that many reactions of TM compounds involve multiple electronic states, of
different spin. In these cases, reactivity is strongly influenced by the energy
152
J.N. Harvey
splitting between the different spin states. Two generic examples of this are
shown schematically in Fig. 1. In example 1, shown in the upper part of the
Figure, the ground state of the reactants (Rc) belongs to one spin state,
shown as a bold potential energy curve, and the ground state of the products
(Pr) lies on another spin-state surface, shown as a lighter line. In Case A, the
reaction is endothermic and involves a significant barrier, whereas in
Case B, in which the second spin state is (relatively) much lower in energy,
the reaction is exothermic and has a low barrier. Example 2 involves an in-
termediate (Int) which differs in spin state from reactants and products. In
Case A, this spin state lies at such high energy that it will not be formed,
and the reaction will proceed adiabatically over a high barrier. In Case B, the
spin-state is relatively much more stable, and it now becomes more favour-
able, from the energetic point of view, to have a double spin-state change
during the reaction. Clearly, in order to be able to predict the qualitative fea-
tures of such reactions, it is necessary to be able to predict relative spin-state
energetics accurately!
For all of these reasons, transition metal chemists have developed many
semi-empirical and ab initio, qualitative and semi-quantitative procedures
to try to predict the ordering of electronic states. The purpose of the present
review is to survey the success of one of the most sophisticated of these
methods, density functional theory, in calculating the relative energetics of
spin states.
Compounds can have close-lying electronic states of different spin for
several reasons. For convenience, we have divided these into three partially
Fig. 1 Two cases show how changes in predicted spin-state splittings can affect the pre-
dicted quantitative and qualitative features of a reactive system. In A, reactants (Rc) and
products (Pr) belong to different spin states, whereas in B, they have the same spin state,
but a potential intermediate (Int) has a different spin
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
153
overlapping categories, as shown in Fig. 2. In case A, electrons on the metal
(usually within the d shell) couple up in different ways to give either a high
or a low (or an intermediate) spin overall. This very common case is very
familiar, for example in crystal field theory. Many examples will be discussed
below. In case B, two (or more) metal centres are present in the molecule (or
material), and both of them have one or more unpaired electrons contribut-
ing to a “local” spin angular momentum. These momenta then couple, either
through space or through the bonding orbitals of the “bridge” connecting
the metals, to provide the overall spin. This case is well-known from solid
state chemistry of substances such as metal oxides, with parallel and anti-
parallel arrangements of the metal ion spin components leading to either
ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic solids. Many bi- and polymetallic mo-
lecular complexes are also known to display this kind of coupling, and there
is considerable experience in using DFT methods to predict the spin-state
splitting in such compounds (see reviews: [5–7]).
Likewise, in the final case, C, spin angular momentum on a metallic cen-
tre can be more or less closely situated with respect to an unpaired electron
(or electrons) situated on a non-metallic centre. One example of this situa-
tion concerns the Compound I intermediate of oxidative cytochrome P450
enzymes. This compound involves two unpaired electrons on a formally
Fe(IV)-O iron oxo core, high-spin coupled to form a local S=1 spin contri-
bution, with a third unpaired electron residing in the p orbitals of the por-
phyrin ligand [8]. Coupling between the two spin components can lead to
both doublet and quartet states.
Fig. 2 Different scenarios for obtaining multiple spin-states in a transition metal com-
pound. M is a metal atom with generic ligands, X is a non-metallic group bearing an un-
paired electron
154
J.N. Harvey
The bulk of this review will focus on situations belonging to category A,
without addressing the very different issues involved with cases B and C in
which the inter-spin coupling is much weaker. Nevertheless, some systems
occur at the borderline between A and either B or C, and for these, the pres-
ent review will be of some relevance.
2
Wavefunction and DFT Methods
2.1
Wavefunction Methods
Before reviewing their specific behaviour for the problem at hand, it is ap-
propriate to briefly remind the reader of the mathematical form of Hartree-
Fock (HF) and of Density Functional (DFT) theories (for more detail on the
material contained in this section, the reader is referred to one of the many
excellent books on electronic structure theory, such as [9]). HF expresses
the electronic wavefunction as a Slater determinant – an antisymmetrized
product of one-electronic functions, or molecular orbitals. For a given sys-
tem defined by the nature and position of the (fixed) atomic nuclei and by
the number of electrons n, the electronic energy, Eelec (to which the nuclear-
nuclear repulsion energy must be added to give the total energy, which de-
fines the potential energy surface), is given as:
Eelec ¼
X
n
i¼1
ti þVNi
ð
Þþ1
2
X
n
i¼1
X
n
j¼1
Jij Kij


ð1Þ
Here ti is the kinetic energy of an electron in molecular orbital i; VNi is
the interaction energy of the same electron with the Coulombic potential in-
duced by the positively charged nuclei; the “Coulomb” integral Jij is the clas-
sical interaction energy between the charge density corresponding to an
electron in orbital i and that corresponding to another electron in orbital j;
and the “Exchange” integral Kij serves to correct the Coulomb integral for
its neglect of the wavefunction antisymmetrization. The mathematical form
of Kij means that it is equal to zero for electrons of opposite spin. It is of
some importance for the discussion of DFT, below, to note that the exchange
integrals in Eq. 1 have a second important function. Thus, the double sum-
mation includes the terms where i=j (in other words the energy includes the
repulsion energy of each electron with itself!). Fortunately, Jii is exactly equal
to Kii, so that this “self-interaction” contribution cancels out exactly. This
may appear to be a mere technical detail concerned with the way in which
the summation of the Jij and Kij contributions is carried out, but it turns out
that the precise cancellation is required for HF calculations to be carried out
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
155
effectively. It would not be convenient to need to exclude all the terms where
i=j.
From this discussion of HF theory, it is possible to discuss the expected
calculated energetics for different spin states of metal complexes. For case A,
above, the electronic configuration of the two spin states can be shown
schematically as in Fig. 3. Making a few simplifying assumptions, the HF
difference in energy between the singlet and triplet states can be given as:
DE1;3
HF ¼ J11
ð
Þ J12 K12
ð
Þ
ð2Þ
This assumes that the form of the molecular orbitals is the same in both
states, that the one-electron parts of the energy expressions are the same for
both states, and that all of the Coulomb and Exchange integrals involving
one of the two electrons in orbitals 1 and 2 with one of the other electrons
are identical to those involving the other of the two electrons (that is, that
J1a=J2a, and so on). If both orbitals are mainly d atomic orbitals localized on
the metal atom, then J11 and J12 will be of the same order and the energy dif-
ference will be given by K12, the exchange integral or “interaction” between
the two electrons in the triplet state. Since this energy contribution is posi-
tive (and fairly large in chemical terms), the triplet state will be significantly
lower than the singlet. The cartoon in Fig. 3 shows both d orbitals as isoen-
ergetic. In cases where one orbital lies lower than the other (for example due
to better interactions with the nuclei on a ligand or to less electron-electron
repulsion with ligands), the triplet will still usually come out as lower in HF
calculations, unless the orbital splitting is very large.
Although some of the assumptions made are certainly not correct in de-
tail, this qualitative prediction of how HF behaves for the spin splitting in
metal complexes of type A is in good agreement with the results of HF cal-
culations (see below). In almost all cases, the high-spin state is far too stable
with respect to the low-spin one when the splitting is compared with experi-
Fig. 3 Schematic molecular orbital diagram for singlet and triplet spin states of a metal
complex, showing doubly-occupied (ligand-based, for example) molecular orbitals a and
b, and a degenerate pair of metal orbitals, 1 and 2
156
J.N. Harvey
mental data. This is because HF neglects an important physical effect: elec-
tron correlation. Because of Coulombic repulsion, the probability of finding
one electron at a given point in space depends on whether or not another
electron is already in the vicinity. HF theory neglects part of this effect. If
the wavefunction were written as a simple product of molecular orbitals
(Hartree product), the neglect would in fact be total, with each electron
moving completely independently of the others. The Slater determinant,
however, includes some “correlation” in that the probability of finding two
electrons of same spin near each other is decreased – antisymmetrization in-
troduces “Fermi holes” around each electron in which the probability of
finding another electron of the same spin is lower than would be predicted
by the Hartree product. However, HF does not describe the similar effect
that occurs between electrons irrespective of their spin, the “Coulomb hole”.
To do so, it is necessary to expand the electronic wavefunction as a linear
combination of multiple Slater determinants. The larger the expansion, the
closer to the exact result (barring effects such as relativity which are not in-
cluded in the simplest treatments).
It is well-known that wavefunction-based methods, whilst in principle, of
course, capable of reaching the exact result in this way, struggle to repro-
duce experimental spin-state splittings for transition metal compounds (for
examples, see below). This is because of the large size and therefore huge
computational cost of the expansion needed to achieve convergence on the
energy difference. Also, simple methods to include electron correlation, such
as MP2 theory, which are often qualitatively successful for main group com-
pounds, sometimes fail dramatically for TM systems (for reviews of ab initio
calculations on TM compounds, see [10] for example). Even for very small
TM compounds, it can be rather difficult to achieve quantitative accuracy
using ab initio methods.
2.2
Density Functional Theory
Compared to wavefunction methods, DFT follows an apparently completely
different approach in order to solve the same problem – the determination
of the energy of a collection of fixed nuclei and moving electrons (for gener-
al introductions to DFT, see [9], as well as more specialized sources such as
[11]). Instead of the many-dimensional wavefunction, the central object in
DFT is a comparatively simple function of three variables, the electronic
density r within the molecular space. DFT is built on two fundamental theo-
rems proposed by Hohenberg and Kohn. The first states that there exists in
principle a functional E[r] from which the exact energy of the system can be
computed upon inputting the exact density function r. The second theorem
states that this functional is variational: the energy computed from a given
density function is lower the closer the input density is to the correct one.
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
157
The problem in DFT is to find the correct form for the functional, and, using
that, to solve for the density.
The exact functional of DFT is unknown, and, even if it was known, there
is no guarantee that it would be significantly more computationally tractable
to evaluate energies and densities from it than it is to obtain them from ex-
act solutions of the Schrdinger equation within the wavefunction approach.
However, many approximate functionals are known which give excellent re-
sults for a range of chemical problems, and it is with those that we are con-
cerned. All of these functionals adopt the same basic energy expression:
Eelec r
ð Þ ¼ T r
ð ÞþVNe r
ð ÞþJee r
ð ÞþExc r
ð Þ
ð3Þ
The four functional terms to the right of this equation correspond respec-
tively to the kinetic energy of the electrons in the density distribution, the
Coulombic interaction of the electron distribution with the nuclei (or with
other external fields), the classical Coulombic interactions of the electrons
amongst themselves, and the “exchange-correlation” functional which cor-
rects the former three terms for their neglect of various effects. For practical
reasons (see below), it is convenient to treat the density as arising from a
sum of contributions from a set of doubly- (or singly-) occupied molecular
(Kohn-Sham) orbitals. Applying the variational condition to Eelec therefore
involves finding the set of orbitals that minimise the energy; doing so leads
to the Kohn-Sham equation which in outward form is very similar to the
Fock equation of HF theory, and also needs to be solved self-consistently.
Whilst Eq. 3 is in principle exact, practical implementations necessarily
involve approximations. To get a better understanding of the impact of these
approximations on spin-state energetics, it is useful to discuss each term in
some more detail.
The first term, the kinetic energy, is difficult to calculate directly from the
density, and it is for this reason that the “molecular orbitals” mentioned
above are introduced: a very good approximation to the kinetic energy cor-
responding to the density can be calculated from the orbitals as it would be
in HF theory. This approach does not however yield the exact kinetic energy
because it assumes that the electrons in each orbital do not interact with
electrons in other orbitals. The exact exchange-correlation functional must
therefore contain a corrective term to incorporate the effect of electronic in-
teractions on their kinetic energy. In practice, such a term is not explicitly
included in common functionals.
The second term, describing the interaction of the electron density with
the positive nuclei (or other external fields), is straightforward.
The third term, describing the interelectronic Coulomb repulsion energy,
is given in density functional theory as:
158
J.N. Harvey
Jee r
ð Þ ¼ 1
2
Z Z r r
ð Þr r0
ð Þ
r r0
j
j drdr0
ð4Þ
This is in fact mathematically identical to the sum of the Jij Coulomb inte-
grals discussed above in the context of HF theory. As also mentioned there,
this is not the true electron-electron repulsion energy, for several reasons.
First, it neglects exchange effects (the antisymmetry of the electronic wave-
function, and the associated Fermi hole that this introduces around each
electron). Next, it does not include the effect of electronic correlation – the
Coulomb hole. Finally, it includes electron-electron self-interaction. In HF
theory, the exchange and self-interaction error are corrected for simply by
including the exchange integrals Kij, but to recover the correlation effects, it
is necessary to use very complex post-HF methods.
In DFT, the fourth term, or exchange-correlation functional, in principle
contains all of the corrections needed to give the exact overall energy. EXC is
often split into one term corresponding to “exchange”, EX, and one corre-
sponding to “correlation”, EC. This division into two terms reflects the fact
that the neglect of exchange and self-interaction, on the one hand, and of
correlation on the other, can at first sight be treated as separate effects.
Accordingly, the role of EX is to correct for exchange and self-interaction
effects. The interelectronic Coulomb repulsion energy, Jee, is too large be-
cause it regards electrons of the same spin as approaching each other close-
ly, whereas in fact the antisymmetry of the wavefunction keeps them apart.
By assuming that the Fermi hole is relatively “small”, it is possible to treat
the exchange correction as an integral over all of space of a “local” effect.
This local effect contributes a stabilisation term that is larger in regions of
space where the density of electrons of a given spin is larger. In the simplest
version of DFT, the Local Density Approximation (LDA), this term is given
the following very simple expression derived from the Dirac formula which
applies for a uniform “gas” of electrons:
Ex r
ð Þ ¼ 21=3C
Z
r4=3
a
þr4=3
b


dr
ð5Þ
Here ra and rb are the densities of spin-up and -down electrons, respec-
tively, at a given point in space. Like the Coulomb interelectronic repulsion
term, this exchange functional does not evaluate to zero for one-electron
systems, where there are of course no electron-electron interactions. In fact,
the two terms are similar in magnitude in such cases, and roughly cancel
out. In this sense, the exchange functional also corrects in part for self-inter-
action effects. For example, the LDA Coulombic energy Jee of the hydrogen
atom, calculated using a large basis set, is 0.2997 Hartrees, and the LDA EX
exchange functional is 0.2791 Hartrees. As can be seen, however, the two
terms do not cancel out exactly, and this leads to the so-called self-interac-
tion error of traditional DFT methods, which we will discuss below. These
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
159
errors, associated with calculating the exchange energy from the local (or
quasi-local, see below) density, suggest that DFT should perform much less
well than HF theory, where exchange is treated exactly. In practice, however,
this is not true. One might also think that a better form of DFTcould be con-
structed, in which exchange is calculated entirely from the HF expression
(not partly, as in hybrid DFTs), but correlation is incorporated using DFT
expressions. Such approaches have been tried, but they do not perform well.
This is partly because the HF description of exchange is not, in fact, exact: it
is exact only within the approximation of a wavefunction represented by a
single Slater Determinant. In DFT, the molecular orbitals and therefore the
Slater Determinant used to expand the density are not assumed to corre-
spond to the exact wavefunction (only to the exact density), so there is no
reason to expect that they could be used to calculate exchange exactly. Also,
exchange and correlation do not have exactly the same meaning in DFT and
HF theory, and these subtle differences lead to problems in this type of ap-
proach.
The correlation part of the functional, EC, is also derived, for simple func-
tionals, from expressions derived for the uniform electron gas. As for the ex-
change term, the role of this part of the functional is to incorporate the sta-
bilising effect of the Coulomb hole that surrounds electrons. Thus, in re-
gions where there is a build-up of electron density – where the probability
of finding two electrons simultaneously is larger – the Coulombic repulsion
energy predicted from Eq. 4 will be an overestimate, as it neglects the corre-
lation in electron motion. Again, like exchange energy, this effect is mod-
elled in DFT as a local effect. Various different correlation functionals have
been suggested, which are all given as integrals over space of functions of
the density (and in some cases of its gradient). The mathematical form of
these functionals can be found elsewhere (see [11] and other references be-
low).
In the above discussion (in the context of HF theory), electron correlation
was shown to play an important role in determining the relative energetics
of spin states. In fact, within post-HF methods, the problem associated with
calculating this energy difference is entirely due to the need to use more and
more complicated wavefunctions so as to recover a significant proportion of
the differential correlation effect between the two states. It might therefore
be expected that, within DFT, the spin-state splitting would be determined
mainly by the correlation functional. As will be seen below, however, this is
not so, with the correlation functional playing little or no role in relative en-
ergetics. In simplistic terms, this can be seen as due to the fact that all corre-
lation functionals make a similar contribution to the energy difference,
whereas the different exchange functionals make different contributions.
In summary, the use of approximate functionals can lead to errors for
several reasons: the neglect of correlation effects on electronic kinetic ener-
gy, the incorrect cancellation of the self-interaction involved in the Coulomb
160
J.N. Harvey
term, and the inaccurate treatment of exchange and correlation effects. It
will be argued below that the errors associated with self-interaction and ex-
change play the most important role in calculations of spin-state energetics
in TM compounds.
The simplest exchange-correlation functionals, derived from the density
alone, give reasonable results for many molecular properties. However, it
has been found that adding terms proportional to the local gradient of the
density in both the exchange and correlation integrands leads to much more
accurate results. Most modern DFT computations use these so-called “non-
local” or gradient-corrected functionals.
It is useful to mention some of the popular DFT functionals that we will
refer to below. Some of these are “complete”, exchange and correlation func-
tionals, such as the generalized gradient approximation of Perdew and Wang
(abbreviated as PW91) [12] and the HCTH147 [13] and RPBE [14] function-
als. Some include only an exchange functional and are designed to be used
together with a correlation functional, such as Beckes 1988 functional (B or
B88) [15] or the Gill 1996 (G or G96) expression [16]. The PW91 functional
mentioned above in fact contains exchange and correlation contributions
which can be used separately with other functionals. The most important
correlation functionals are those of Perdew (P or P86) [17] and of Lee, Yang
and Parr (LYP) [18].
The expressions given above for calculating the energy of a molecular
system all use so-called pure density functional theory. That is, the energy is
calculated from the density alone – although the kinetic energy is derived
from a set of Kohn-Sham “orbitals”. A very popular modification of DFT was
suggested some years ago, in which the exchange energy is computed as a
weighted sum of two terms, one of which is based upon the density alone,
and the other is the Hartree-Fock exchange expression, using the Slater De-
terminant constructed from the Kohn-Sham orbitals. As discussed above,
poor results are obtained when one uses this “exact” exchange expression
on its own to calculate the exchange energy within DFT. However, as a mix-
ture with DFT expressions, very accurate functionals can be obtained. The
proportion of HF exchange was initially chosen to be 50% [19], yielding the
BHLYP (or BHandHLYP) functional in conjunction with the B and LYP ex-
change and correlation functionals. In later work, the coefficient defining
this proportion was optimised to reproduce computed energetics of a set of
small main-group compounds as accurately as possible. This yields a family
of functionals with 20% of exact exchange [20], by far the most common of
which also includes contributions from the LDA exchange and correlation
expressions, the B exchange functional, and LYP correlation. This B3LYP
functional is one of the most accurate available at the present time [21]. It
also performs very well for many species that do not belong to the initial set
of compounds, including TM compounds, as shown by its countless applica-
tions in the field. There are many other so-called “hybrid” functionals, some
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
161
of which, for instance B3PW91 or B3P86, use the same mathematical form
and mixing coefficients as B3LYP but other correlation functionals. Others,
such as B1LYP, PBE0, KMLYP, MPW1 K, use different proportions of exact
exchange and different DFT expressions for exchange and correlation.
The development of new DFTs is a very active field of research, with new
“pure” and hybrid functionals appearing all the time, some of which per-
form as well as or better than B3LYP for some (or all?) properties. In most
cases, the researchers developing functionals test them on sets of com-
pounds that do not contain any TM atoms. It then takes some time before
such newly developed functionals become widely adopted by the broader
computational community, and especially before they are used to try to pre-
dict spin-state splittings of TM compounds. Given the difficulties discussed
below, it would seem desirable for TM compounds to be used earlier in the
development phase of new functionals, although this is itself not straightfor-
ward given the need for reliable benchmarks.
3
Spin-State Splitting in Main-Group Compounds
Before addressing transition metal compounds, it is instructive to see how
DFT compares to wavefunction methods for predicting the spin-state split-
ting of main-group open-shell compounds. Given the many calculations on
this type of system in the literature, there is potentially a lot of data available
pertaining to this issue. In line with the general high performance of the
B3LYP functional, it often seems to give good results for state splittings, for
example of carbenes [22]. However, other functionals also seem to perform
well [23], suggesting that there may not be great differences in this field be-
tween them. Perhaps because of this good agreement, and the general good
behaviour of standard functionals such as B3LYP, there do not appear to be
many systematic studies of DFT-dependence. For this reason, we include
here, as a reference for the following sections on transition metal com-
pounds, state splittings calculated for two simple compounds with a broad
range of functionals [24].
Table 1 shows the predicted splitting between the triplet ground state and
the closed-shell first singlet excited state of the methylene biradical, CH2. To
take the ab initio results first, it can be seen that HF exaggerates the stability
of the triplet, for the reasons discussed above. Next, the simplest correlated
method, MP2, does not improve the result much, mainly due to near-degen-
eracy effects in the singlet state. All of the multi-reference methods, includ-
ing the very simple two configuration CASSCF(2,2) method, give results in
close agreement and close to the exact value. The highly-correlated single-
reference CCSD and especially CCSD(T) methods also perform well.
162
J.N. Harvey
The most important trend within the DFT results is that there is no sys-
tematic dependence of DE(1,3) on the type of exchange functional used. In
fact, the correlation functional appears to be more important: The PW91
and B3PW91 functionals give very similar state-splittings which are clearly
too negative, BP86 and B3P86 also overestimate the splitting, whereas BLYP,
B3LYP and B1LYP all give values which are fairly close to experiment. Of the
functionals using the LYP correlation functional, only BHandHLYP, with its
very high proportion of exact exchange (50%), overstabilises the high-spin
state to a significant extent. Finally, even the simplest LDA functional gives a
reasonable value, which is not out of line with those obtained with the other
functionals.
This pattern seems to be fairly common for main group compounds. In
Table 2, results with the same range of functionals are shown for the singlet-
triplet splitting in methyl-silylene [24]. In this system, the unpaired elec-
trons reside on a different atom (Si versus C), and the singlet is now the
Table 1 DFT and ab initio calculated energy splittings (in kcal/mol) between the triplet and
singlet states of CH2. The indicated value does not include a correction for zero-point ener-
gy
DFT/6–311G** (optimized)
Ab initio/cc-pVQZ (at B3LYP/6–311G** geometry)
DFT
DE(1,3)
Ab initio level
DE(1,3)
LDA
13.43
HF
24.98
PW91
15.46
MP2
19.50
BLYP
10.26
CCSD
10.39
BP86
13.64
CCSD(T)
9.52
B3PW91
15.94
CASSCF(2,2)
10.49
B3LYP
11.39
CASSCF(6,6)
10.15
B3P86
14.60
MRCISD
9.15
B1LYP
11.57
MRCISD+Q
8.99
BHandHLYP
12.66
MRACPF
9.04
HF
26.02
MRAQCC
9.09
Table 2 DFT and ab initio calculated energy splittings (in kcal/mol) between the triplet and
singlet states of CH3SiH. HF and DFT results involve full geometry optimization with the
6–311G** basis; CCSD and CCSD(T) values use the cc-pVQZ basis at the B3LYP/6–311G**
geometry; no corrections for zero-point energy have been included
Method
DE(1,3)
Method
DE(1,3)
LDA
23.15
B3P86
20.00
PW91
19.20
B1LYP
22.78
BLYP
23.68
BHandHLYP
21.97
BP86
20.59
HF
7.67
B3PW91
18.78
CCSD
22.66
B3LYP
22.96
CCSD(T)
23.17
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
163
ground state (DE(1,3) is positive). Using the CCSD(T) results as a reference,
it can be seen that the functionals using the LYP functional are again most
accurate, with the PW91 and, to a lesser extent, P86 correlation functionals
leading to an over-stable triplet (or under-stable singlet). As in the case of
CH2, HF clearly favours the triplet, the LDA performs well, and even the lar-
gest differences between functionals are fairly modest.
In summary, most DFT functionals seem to reproduce spin-state split-
tings of main-group compounds fairly accurately. The differences between
functionals, from experiment or accurate computation, are typically below
5 kcal/mol, and the nature of the correlation functional seems to be some-
what more important than that of the exchange functional. As expected from
its general good performance for predicting thermochemistry of main-
group compounds, the functional chosen by default in many computational
studies, B3LYP, also gives good results for spin-state splittings.
4
Spin-State Splitting in TM Compounds
The situation for transition metal compounds is rather different from that
just discussed for main-group species. Different functionals frequently pre-
dict spin-state splittings which differ by 10 kcal/mol or more, and this has
been noticed and reported by many different groups. A lot of effort has been
put into ascertaining which functional gives the best results for a given sys-
tem. This is not always easy, as an accurate experimental or computational
calibration is not always available. An additional difficulty comes from the
fact that many computational studies of TM compounds use relatively small
basis sets, such as the double zeta, unpolarized, LanL2DZ ECP basis. Al-
though DFT is not as demanding in terms of basis sets as correlated ab initio
methods (only the one-particle space of the Kohn-Sham orbitals needs to be
spanned, not the two-particle inter-electronic cusp, the accurate description
of which requires very large basis sets), and some properties calculated with
basis sets as small as this can be more or less converged, it is frequently the
case that basis set effects of 10 kcal/mol can affect such results. We will now
review the results of calculations on a range of TM compounds.
4.1
Atoms and Atomic Ions
It might appear at first sight that atomic systems are ideal for testing and
benchmarking the performance of DFT in predicting spin-state splitting.
The energies of the electronic states of these species are known very accu-
rately from experiment, they are amenable to accurate computation using ab
initio methods, and a broad range of d orbital occupation patterns and spin
164
J.N. Harvey
multiplicities are covered if one considers all of the transition metals. How-
ever, there are some problems associated with these species. First and fore-
most, atomic states tend to be degenerate due to orbital angular momentum
as well as spin. The simple-minded approach to representing these states is
to carry out DFT calculations with the electrons assigned to orbitals in such
a way as to obtain the correct overall occupation pattern ndq(n+1)sr – for
example the valence electrons in the iron atom will be placed so as to obtain
a 3d64s2 configuration consistent with the 5D ground state of the atom. How-
ever, the angular degeneracy of the atomic state means that it can, in princi-
ple, be represented in several different ways in terms of the occupations
of the individual d orbitals: (z2)2(xy)1(xz)1(yz)1(x2y2)1 or (z2)1(xy)2(xz)1
(yz)1(x2y2)1, and so on. With many functionals, these different occupation
patterns generate significantly (several kcal/mol) different energies. It has
been proposed that either carefully chosen single configurations or weighted
averages over several configurations should be used as atomic multiplet en-
ergies. For a discussion of these issues, see [25–27] and references therein.
Obviously, the calculated spin-state splitting will depend on whether or not
these more sophisticated approaches are used or whether one has simply en-
tered the required charge and multiplicity into the electronic structure soft-
ware and hoped for the best!
Another objection to the use of atoms as reference systems for calibration
is that their electronic structure is often not typical of that of the metallic
complexes for which prediction of spin states is desirable. For example, the
(n+1)s orbital of a metal in a complex is usually not occupied, whereas it is
in bare metal atoms. For this reason, unless there are good grounds for
thinking that the behaviour of functionals should be fairly constant whatever
the electronic structure and bonding environment, then the “best” function-
als for atoms may perform poorly for complexes. We note that as well as
atoms and atomic ions, small, highly unsaturated gas phase molecules such
as metal monohydrides MH, monoxides MO, and monocarbonyls MCO can
be argued to have somewhat unrepresentative electronic structures. For this
reason, it is advisable to avoid extrapolating too confidently from computa-
tional studies of these systems to larger complexes.
Of course, in some cases it is important to be able to calculate the ener-
gies of atoms, and it is also interesting to examine how functionals behave
for these systems. Thus, despite the problems with these calculations, many
studies have been carried out on atoms and atomic ions, often with the spe-
cific aim of testing functional behaviour. To take just one example, Marko-
vits et al studied the ground state of the first row transition metal atoms us-
ing the PW91 and B3LYP functionals as a part of their study of the absorp-
tion of metal atoms on magnesium oxide surfaces [28]. For most metals, the
lowest configuration was found to correspond to the experimental ground
state. For V, however, PW91 predicts a 3d44s1 quintet ground state, whereas
B3LYP agrees with experiment in finding a 3d34s2 triplet ground state. For
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
165
Ni, both functionals predict a triplet ground state, but with PW91, this is a
3d94s1 configuration, instead of 3d84s2 as found experimentally and with
B3LYP. This example illustrates the second point made above: the different
states involved differ in their 3d occupation instead of, or as well as, in their
spin state. In metal complexes, competing spin states differ instead in terms
of the spin coupling of the nd electrons.
4.2
Organometallic and Coordination Complexes
After these highly unsaturated species, the rest of the review will focus on
more realistic, multi-ligand complexes. It is useful to make a distinction be-
tween organometallic and Werner-type coordination compounds. Organo-
metallic compounds typically involve “strong field” ligands such as carbon-
yl, whose orbitals interact strongly with the d orbitals of the metal through
both bonding and back-bonding interactions. This is also favoured by the
fact that in many organometallic compounds, the metal atom has a fairly
low formal oxidation state, and indeed is fairly electron rich, so that its
occupied d orbitals are fairly high in energy, and interact significantly with
the ligand orbitals. All of this results in fairly strong splitting of the formal
d orbital energy levels, which results in a significant preference of organo-
metallic compounds for closed-shell singlet electronic ground states. For ex-
ample, the success of the 18-electron rule in rationalising bonding in these
compounds clearly correlates with this preference for singlet states.
In contrast to this, coordination compounds typically involve weaker-
field nitrogen, halogen or oxygen-based ligands on the metal centre. Also,
the metal often has a fairly high formal charge of +2 or +3, and so has quite
small d orbitals spatially, which overlap less with ligand orbitals. As a result,
d orbital splitting is less pronounced, and both high-spin and low-spin elec-
tronic states can be observed. For example, octahedral Fe(II) complexes in-
trinsically have a formal electron count of 18, yet both quintet and singlet
(and indeed sometimes triplet) ground states are very common for these
species. For these compounds, then, the occurrence of close-lying spin states
is a general rule, and being able to predict the ground state is crucial if one
wants to be able to predict such things as geometrical structure or spectros-
copy.
Of course, for many TM species, it can be difficult (and conceptually not
very useful!) to decide whether they are “organometallic” or “coordination”
compounds – for many complexes, a good case could be made for them be-
longing to both groups (or neither). Also, the hand-waving rules given
above whereby organometallic compounds tend to have low-spin and indeed
most often singlet ground states, whereas coordination compounds tend to
have close-lying high- and low-spin states, are much too simple for them
not to fail quite frequently. From our present point of view, it is important to
166
J.N. Harvey
point out that there are many stable organometallic species, and even more
reactive intermediates, in which an electron count lower than 18, an odd
number of electrons, or the presence of comparatively weak-field ligands,
leads to the existence of low-lying open-shell electronic states. For these cas-
es, it is important to be able to predict spin-state splittings accurately, as it
is more generally for coordination compounds.
4.2.1
Iron Tetracarbonyl
It is instructive to start our overview of TM compounds with a very simple
species, which has been the object of many computational studies: iron
tetracarbonyl. As will be seen, many of the trends concerning DFT and spin-
state splitting are observed for this compound. Fe(CO)4 is a 16-electron re-
active intermediate which has been shown to have a triplet ground state in
the gas phase, but with a low-lying singlet state just above. Both electronic
states have C2V geometries, which can be thought of as arising from distor-
tion of the species obtained by removing an equatorial carbonyl from trigo-
nal bipyramidic Fe(CO)5 (See Fig. 4). The ground state has three doubly-
occupied orbitals which are mainly metal-3d in character, and two singly oc-
cupied orbitals of b1 and a1 symmetry, respectively. The first of these is es-
sentially the metal 3dxz orbital – the d orbital lying in the “equatorial” plane.
The second is mainly the iron dz2 orbital, with some 4s character, and is ori-
ented along the C2V axis – which corresponds to what was, in formal terms,
the broken Fe–C bond in Fe(CO)5. In the singlet, the b1 orbital is doubly oc-
cupied, and the a1 orbital is empty. This occupation pattern is fairly typical
of other unsaturated 16-electron singlet/triplet pairs.
Fig. 4 Three-dimensional representation of the structures of A: Fe(CO)5; B: 1Fe(CO)5,
and; C: 3Fe(CO)4; showing how the latter two structures can be derived from the first one
by removing one CO
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
167
For the reasons discussed above, early ab initio calculations [29, 30] tend
to exaggerate the stability of the triplet ground state, even when using corre-
lated wavefunctions, as it is difficult to recover all of the differential correla-
tion effects. The computations thereby find a large (~15 kcal/mol or more)
splitting between the triplet and singlet states. There have been many DFT
studies of this species [31–35]. The geometries found in these different stud-
ies are generally in good agreement, but the spin-state splitting is found to
vary quite strongly depending on the functional used. Thus, “pure” DFT
methods give rather low excitation energies, for example DE=0.5 kcal/mol
with BP86 and BLYP [32], whereas hybrid functionals give larger splittings,
like 8.7 kcal/mol with B3LYP [32].
In a recent study, we calculated the state splitting of Fe(CO)4 using a vari-
ety of DFT and wavefunction methods [36]. The DFT calculations yielded re-
sults very similar to those found above, except that we surveyed a broader
range of functionals (see Table 3). This reveals some interesting points. First,
the splitting does not strongly depend on the nature of the correlation func-
tional, for a given exchange functional (or mixture of functionals). Thus
BP86, BLYP, and BPW91 give very similar values. Second, there are enor-
mous differences in the computed DE upon varying the exchange functional,
and especially the amount of exact exchange. Thus, all pure functionals give
a very small splitting (LDA is a slight exception, for which the singlet is the
ground state, probably due to the absence of gradient corrections), function-
als with 20–25% HF exchange give values close to 10 kcal/mol, and the two
functionals KMLYP [37] and MPW1 K [38], developed to give accurate bar-
Table 3 DFT spin-state splitting DE(1,3) between 3B1 and 1A1 Fe(CO)4, in kcal/mol. The neg-
ative value for the LDA means that the singlet is found to be the ground state with that
method. Also shown is the proportion of "exact" exchange used in the functional. From
[36]; includes a correction for zero-point energy
DFT
Exact exchange (%)
DE(1,3) (kcal/mol)
LDA
0
5.91
BP86
0
0.92
BLYP
0
1.43
G96LYP
0
1.61
HCTH147
0
0.43
BPW91
0
1.64
B3LYP
20
9.78
B1LYP
25
12.92
mPW1PW91
25
12.11
PBE0
25
9.15
KMLYP
55
21.61
MPW1 K
42
20.21
B3PW91
20
9.65
B3PW91*
15
6.88
B3"PW91**
10
4.09
168
J.N. Harvey
riers for some small gas-phase reactions, and containing ~50% HF ex-
change, give splittings close to 20 kcal/mol. Whilst not fully conclusive, our
wavefunction-based calculations (CASPT2 and CCSD(T) with large basis
sets) agreed that the correct splitting should be somewhere between the val-
ue given by the pure functionals and that given by B3LYP.
There is an interesting exception to the rule that pure functionals predict
near-degenerate singlet and triplet states. The modified form of the “pure”
PBE functional described by Hammer et al [14], called RPBE, has been re-
ported [35] to predict a triplet-singlet energy difference for Fe(CO)4 of
4.0 kcal/mol, which is probably much closer to the correct value than that
computed with any other “pure” functional. Whilst the RPBE functional has
been very enthusiastically adopted by the periodic DFT community for cal-
culations on surfaces – the area for which it was developed – very few appli-
cations have been reported for molecular TM complexes, so it is not yet
clear whether the good result for Fe(CO)4 will be transposable to other sys-
tems.
In the last three rows of Table 3, the effect of varying the proportion of
exact exchange whilst keeping all other aspects of the functional constant
shows that the spin-state splitting does indeed depend on the proportion of
exact exchange. We found that the modified B3PW91* functional, with a re-
duced 15% contribution of exact exchange, gave the closest agreement with
what we believe to be our “best” wavefunction-based predictions for the
spin-state splitting and the bond energy in Fe(CO)5 (which is not discussed
here). The dependence on the proportion of exact exchange is shown more
clearly in Fig. 5, where we have followed the example of Reiher et al [39]
Fig. 5 Computed [23] spin-state splitting DE(1,3) between 3Fe(CO)4 and 1Fe(CO)4, as a
function of the proportion of exact exchange. Diamonds and solid line: B3LYP(c3) results;
discs and dotted line: B3(c3) results (only the exchange parts of the DFT functional were
used)
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
169
(see below), and plotted DE for 11 different B3LYP(c3) functionals, in which
the c3 coefficient defining the percentage of exact exchange is varied from
0–50% [24]. As can be seen, the dependence is almost linear, with increasing
amounts of exact exchange progressively favouring the triplet more and
more.
A final, and remarkable, piece of evidence relating to Fe(CO)4 and show-
ing the importance of the exchange functional in establishing the spin-state
splitting is also shown in the Figure. We have calculated the spin-state ener-
gy difference using modified B3LYP functionals, in which (a) the proportion
of exact exchange was varied, and (b) the local and non-local correlation
functionals were completely removed – only exchange contributions were in-
cluded. These calculations actually give spin-state splittings which are only
slightly more in favour of the triplet than with the full B3LYP(c3) function-
als. Like the latter, though, the predicted energy difference is found to vary
significantly depending on the proportion of exact exchange. Clearly, the
meaning of “exchange” in DFT is quite different from that which it has in
HF and post-HF theories: the HF spin-state splitting in this system is
~38 kcal/mol [24], so the much lower values found for these “exchange
only–B3LYP” functionals means that the exchange functional must intro-
duce a description of some of what would be called correlation effects within
wavefunction theory.
In summary, Fe(CO)4 has a triplet ground state, with a closed-shell singlet
lying slightly higher. The exact state splitting is unknown, but is likely to be
between 4 and 8 kcal/mol. Pure DFT functionals (except RPBE) predict a
state-splitting which is clearly too small, with the singlet lying ~1 kcal/mol
above the triplet. Hybrid functionals predict a splitting which increases al-
most linearly with the proportion of mixed-in exact exchange. In particular,
functionals such as the popular B3LYP, with 20% exact exchange, seem to
slightly overestimate the stability of the triplet, and better results seem to be
obtained with functionals such as B3PW91*, which has a reduced 15% con-
tribution from HF exchange.
4.2.2
Exact Exchange and Spin-State Splitting: Other Observations
The observations summarised at the end of the previous section, and drawn
from our own work [24, 36], have in fact been made by several other authors
both previous to and in parallel with our work. The most systematic study,
to which we have already briefly alluded, is that of Reiher et al [39]. These
authors started out by studying a set of bridged dithiolate Fe(II) complexes,
shown in Fig. 6. The spin multiplicity of the ground state of these com-
pounds was known experimentally. The authors found that use of the BP86
functional wrongly predicted that some high-spin (S=2) compounds should
have a lower-lying low-spin (S=0) state, whereas use of the B3LYP functional
170
J.N. Harvey
led to the opposite problem: some low-spin species were predicted to have
high-spin ground states.
The authors went on [39] to study the effect on the spin-state splitting for
each of the compounds of using a range of hybrid functionals based on
B3LYP but with a systematically varied proportion of exact exchange. They
found an almost exactly linear dependence, as shown in Fig. 7. Note that the
slope of the lines relating spin-splitting to exchange is rather large – changes
in relative energetics of more than 25 kcal/mol (100 kJ/mol) are observed
upon going from pure functionals to those with 20% of exact exchange. This
effect is clearly not a small one that can be ignored in all but the most quan-
titatively-focused studies! Values of between 10–15% define a so-called “op-
timum” region, within which the correct ground-state is predicted for all the
compounds studied. With either lower or higher amounts of exchange, at
least some of the predicted ground states were wrong. Accordingly, the au-
Fig. 6 Fe(II) compounds studied by Reiher et al [39]. Reproduced with permission from
[39]
Fig. 7 Computed spin-state splittings ELS/HS for the compounds of Fig. 6 [39], as a func-
tion of the proportion of exact exchange. Reproduced with permission from [39]
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
171
thors proposed [39] the use of a modified B3LYP functional, with 15% exact
exchange (c3=0.15 instead of 0.20), which they refer to as B3LYP*.
In subsequent work, Reiher et al have tested the performance of this
B3LYP* functional much more widely [40]. First, they found that the agree-
ment with experiment for the set of atomization and ionization energies and
of electron affinities for the main-group molecules contained in the G2 test
set is not appreciably worse with B3LYP* compared to B3LYP. Next, they ex-
plored the dependence of spin-state splitting on the c3 coefficient for differ-
ent spin states of metallocenes M(C5H5)2 (M=Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) and
of bis-benzene complexes, M(C6H6)2 (M=Ti, V, Cr, Fe, Co), Mn(C6H6)2
+ and
Ni(C6H6)2
2+. As for the Fe(II) complexes discussed in their previous paper,
most of these species showed a relative stabilization of the high-spin state
upon increasing the amount of exact exchange. The authors draw particular
attention to the cases of manganocene (Mn(C5H5)2) and cobaltocene
(Co(C5H5)2). Experimentally, the first of these has a sextet ground state
whereas the second is a doublet. Agreement with experiment is only found
for c3 values larger than 14% and smaller than 22%. This interval overlaps
in a small region with that found in their earlier study, and reinforces their
recommendation that B3LYP* should be a more accurate functional for de-
scribing spin-state splitting than B3LYP itself, and is much more accurate
than “pure” density functionals.
This observation is informally supported by work from other groups. For
example, the mechanism of the bis(imino)pyridyl iron(II) catalyzed poly-
merization of alkenes has been of considerable interest, and two major com-
putational studies have appeared on this topic [41, 42]. Both studies have ad-
dressed parts of the singlet, triplet, and quintet potential energy surfaces rel-
evant to the individual steps in propagation and termination. Figure 8 shows
the catalyst system. The second study [42] has mostly used the B3LYP hy-
brid functional, and includes a critical and comparative review of differ-
ences with the first study [41], which used the pure BP86 functional. The
studies address large molecules and to do so treat them using a mixed quan-
tum-mechanical/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) method. As well as differ-
ing in the choice of functional, the two studies also use different computer
Fig. 8 Generic structure of the bis(imino)pyridyl iron(II) catalyst system studied in [41,
42]
172
J.N. Harvey
programs, and different MM force-fields, so that straightforward compari-
son is not possible. Nevertheless, spin-state splitting for a number of inter-
mediates are systematically and significantly (10 kcal/mol) more in favour of
the high-spin state in the B3LYP study than in the BP86 study. In the supple-
mentary material of [42], the authors report the results of calculations using
both functionals, with the same basis set, for a small, QM-only, model di-
chloride system (Fig. 8, R=R0=H, X=Y=Cl). This enables a consistent com-
parison of energetics. BP86 predicts that quintet and triplet should be de-
generate, with the singlet 3 kcal/mol higher. B3LYP gives relative energies of
0.0, 13.3 and 21.3 for quintet, triplet and singlet. As the full dichloride spe-
cies (R0=bulky aryl group) is experimentally known to be a quintet, the au-
thors note that B3LYP appears to describe spin-state energetics in this sys-
tem more accurately than BP86.
In a related study on cobalt(II) bis(imino)pyridyl catalyzed polymeriza-
tion [43], Margl et al have likewise compared the behaviour of BP86 and
B3LYP for a number of species on the catalytic cycle. Their results (also pre-
sented in the Supplementary Material of their paper [43]) show that the
spin-state splitting between doublet and quartet states is ~25 kcal/mol more
in favour of the quartet with the hybrid B3LYP functional than with BP86.
As in the iron case, the B3LYP result is in somewhat better agreement with
experiment than the BP86 one, with respect to spin-state splitting, as it cor-
rectly predicts the quartet ground state of the catalyst precursor, whereas
BP86 predicts a doublet ground state.
In brief, there is lots of other evidence in the literature that hybrid func-
tionals favour high-spin states:
– Ghosh and Taylor have calculated a 4 kcal/mol lower energy difference with
BP86 than with B3LYP between the sextet ground state and lowest quartet
excited state of the hexa-solvated iron(III) ion, Fe(H2O)6
3+ [44].
– Scherlis and Estrin [45] have compared HF, BP86, BLYP, B3LYP, and
BHandHLYP calculations on iron atoms and iron-porphyrin systems, and
found that the pure functionals overestimate the stability of low-spin states,
whereas HF favours the high-spin states.
– Several groups have studied the energy difference between low-spin
and high-spin forms of so-called “spin-crossover” compounds such as
Fe(phen)2(NCS)2 [46, 47], Fe(tpen)2+ (tpen=tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethyl-
enediamine) [48, 49], and others [46], using different functionals. The ener-
gy difference is best described by B3LYP* [47], then by hybrid functionals,
with pure functionals favouring the low-spin form.
– The energetics of the low-, intermediate-, and high-spin states of the
key species on the potential energy surface for oxidation of alkenes by
Mn(salen) (and the related chromium species [50]) complexes have received
considerable attention, following the suggestion [51] by Linde et al that
spin-state changes play an important role in the diastereoselectivity of this
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
173
important synthetic transformation. The key manganese oxo intermediate,
formally with an Mn(V) centre, has close-lying singlet, triplet and quintet
states [52–54]. Calculations on a simple model compound, shown in Fig. 9,
lead to very different relative energetics for these states. Thus, most func-
tionals predict similar energies for the singlet and triplet states, but hybrid
functionals place the quintet state close in energy as well, whereas with pure
functionals it lies ~15 kcal/mol higher.
For this system, there is a complicating factor which is not always proper-
ly taken into account when discussing spin-state energetics: the manganese
oxo species does not really belong to type A in the classification shown in
Fig. 1, because the unpaired electrons in the different spin states are not
purely located on the metal. Significant spin-contamination in the triplet
[53] is inconsistent with it being described purely as a Mn(V) centre with
two unpaired electrons, bearing an oxo (2) ligand. Instead, it must be de-
scribed as a mixture between this “oxo” structure, and an “oxy” resonance
form. The latter involves a high-spin Mn(IV) centre, with three unpaired
electrons contributing an overall 3/2 spin angular momentum, low-spin cou-
pled to an oxy radical doublet. In this picture, there are four unpaired elec-
trons, one of which is not on the metal! The quintet corresponds to a high-
spin coupling of the Mn(IV) and oxy radical spins. The change from singlet
to triplet therefore involves some redox changes as well as a change in spin
on the metal, and the change from triplet to quintet involves some redox
change, and a change in the relative alignment of the spin contributed by
two different parts of the molecule – as in case C of Fig. 1. This is a very dif-
ferent situation to that found in systems such as the Fe(II) or Co(II) com-
plexes, in which the different spin states do mostly arise as a consequence of
different spin-pairing on the metal centre itself. It is not clear that spin-state
splittings in borderline case C systems will follow the same trends as normal
case A compounds.
– In their study of the spin-forbidden addition reactions of CO and N2 to the
16-electron spin-triplet Cp*MoCl(PMe3)2, Jensen and Poli calculated the en-
ergy difference between the triplet ground state and lowest singlet excited
state of the fragment using both B3LYP and BPW91 functionals, as well as
various wavefunction methods [55]. The HF method gave a large splitting,
Fig. 9 Model system used to study spin-state splittings and reactivity in Mn(salen) oxida-
tion
174
J.N. Harvey
of 19.5 kcal/mol, B3LYP gave a much reduced energy difference of 5.6 kcal/
mol, and the pure functional gave a still smaller 2.9 kcal/mol.
– As a part of their attempt to evaluate the capability of the PM3 semiempiri-
cal method to correctly predict the correct spin state of technetium com-
plexes, Ball et al [56] compared spin-state splittings computed for several of
the target compounds with four different functionals, BP86, BLYP, B3P86
and B3LYP. Singlet-triplet or doublet-quartet splittings were typically
3–5 kcal/mol more in favour of the singlet with the pure functionals than
with the hybrid ones, with still larger effects for the singlet-quintet or dou-
blet-sextet energy differences.
It is perhaps worth noting in the context of these last two examples that
the effect of exact exchange on spin-state splitting is apparently much small-
er for complexes of the second-row TM elements. The cobalt and iron exam-
ples given earlier lead to differences of up to 20 kcal/mol or more between
spin-state splittings computed using standard pure (BP86) and hybrid
(B3LYP) functionals. The differences in the case of the molybdenum and
technetium compounds are much smaller. This is not limited to early sec-
ond-row elements or indeed to the second row, as shown in Table 4, in which
we report computed spin-state splitting for the second- and third-row ana-
logues of Fe(CO)4, Ru(CO)4 and Os(CO)4, obtained with a similar basis set
and a similar range of functionals to that used for Fe(CO)4 (Table 3, [36]).
Note that spin-orbit coupling – not included in the computations – may af-
fect the energy of the “triplet” state of these heavy species, especially the Os-
mium complex.
These 16-electron species adopt rather similar geometries to the corre-
sponding spin-states of Fe(CO)4, but unlike for the latter, the singlet is pre-
dicted to be the ground state at all levels (except HF for Os(CO)4). This is
Table 4 DFT spin-state splitting DE(1,3) between
3B1 and
1A1 states of Ru(CO)4 and
Os(CO)4, in kcal/mol; the negative values correspond to singlet ground states (from [24]).
Calculated using a 6–31G* basis on C and O, LACV3P on Ru or Os, at the B3LYP/6–31G*
geometry. Does not include a correction for zero-point energy
DFT
DE(1,3) Ru
DE(1,3) Os
LDA
21.4
17.8
BP86
17.7
15.9
BLYP
18.5
17.7
PW91
17.9
15.7
B3LYP
16.7
14.7
B3PW91
15.6
12.6
B1LYP
15.8
13.8
BHandHLYP
13.0
9.8
KMLYP
14.0
9.0
HF
0.3
5.8
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
175
basically due to the larger spatial extent of the 4d and 5d orbitals, and hence
to better bonding interactions with the ligands, a large d orbital splitting,
and decreased d-d Coulombic repulsion. As can be seen in the Table, for
these species, the computed spin-state splitting varies by only 5.5 and
6.1 kcal/mol, respectively, between the pure BLYP functional and the
BHandHLYP functional, which includes a very large amount, 50%, of exact
exchange. For a similar pair of functionals, BLYP and KMLYP, the spin-state
splitting of Fe(CO)4 changes by over 20 kcal/mol. Nevertheless, the overall
trend remains that the high-spin state is favoured upon mixing in increasing
amounts of HF exchange.
5
Discussion
The above examples show that there is abundant evidence in the literature
that mixing in of HF exact exchange can lead to dramatic changes in spin-
state splittings of TM complexes as compared to results obtained using pure
functionals. The energy effect depends approximately linearly upon the pro-
portion of exact exchange, and leads to the stabilisation of the high-spin
state (or destabilisation of the low-spin state). It is particularly strong for
first-row transition metals.
The most usual interpretation provided for this effect is implicit in our
introduction on HF and DFT methods: HF accounts for the Fermi hole cor-
relation effect between electrons of same spin, but does not describe the
more general (Coulomb hole-derived) correlation between electron motion.
It therefore over-stabilises high-spin states. In contrast, pure DFT often over-
stabilises low-spin states. Note that the reason for this is not clear, and none
is usually given when this point is being discussed, but it is a fairly common
observation. Taken together, these two trends mean that mixing in HF ex-
change terms in the DFT functional will lead to error compensation, or to a
more accurate functional, depending on the point of view. From the prag-
matic point of view, this point of view seems acceptable at first sight: if, for a
given compound, spin-state splitting depends strongly on exact exchange
admixture, and pure functionals overstabilise the low-spin form whereas HF
overestimates the high-spin form, then adjusting the amount of exact ex-
change should enable parameterisation of a functional which gives good
agreement with experiment for that system.
However, this account does raise a number of issues, concerning transfer-
ability (or universality), calibration, the role of exchange functionals in pure
DFT, and the self-interaction error.
Transferability is in some ways a double problem. The first of these re-
lates to whether an optimised exact exchange contribution able to reproduce
spin-state splittings in a given compound or class of compounds will repro-
176
J.N. Harvey
duce them equally well for other compounds. The second is whether the pre-
ferred value for the exact exchange contribution is able to give accurate pre-
dictions for other properties.
Taking the second problem first, Reiher et al [40] have found that chang-
ing the proportion of exact exchange from 0.20 to 0.15, whilst greatly im-
proving the predicted spin-state splittings for some compounds, has only a
small effect on the computed thermochemistry of main group compounds.
The resulting B3LYP* functional yields results on the G2 thermochemical
test set which are of very similar quality to those obtained with B3LYP itself.
In other words, energetics for many main-group compounds are sufficiently
insensitive to exact exchange that this can be modified slightly in order to
improve behaviour for TM spin-state splitting. However, large changes are
impossible because this would lead to inferior results – the mixing ratio was
optimised to 20% by fitting to thermochemical data for a large number of
main group compounds. It is the consequent superior thermochemical be-
haviour compared to pure functionals which is, after all, the main reason
why B3LYP has become so popular.
Speaking more generally, though, it does not appear that all properties
are well computed by functionals with a proportion of exact exchange simi-
lar to B3LYP or B3LYP*. In transition metals, it has been shown [57] that
both pure functionals and hybrid functionals with a moderate amount of ex-
act exchange, such as B3LYP, provide a description of bonding in Cu(II)
complexes such as CuCl4
 which is too covalent. The authors of this study
found that increasing the admixture of exact exchange to 38% produced a
better account of the bonding. Equally, the barrier heights of many simple
reactions are poorly described by B3LYP, and it is found empirically that
better agreement with experiment is obtained only upon mixing in very high
(~50%) proportions of exact exchange (see for example [37, 38]). As shown
in Tables 3 and 4, and elsewhere by Reiher et al [39, 40], such HF exchange-
rich functionals give very poor spin-state splittings. Other researchers have
varied the degree of exact exchange and studied other properties. For exam-
ple, Tozer et al find that a c3 coefficient of between 0.2 and 0.3 yields the best
agreement with experiment for the prediction of magnetic resonance shield-
ing tensors [58]. In fact, as discussed below, there is no real reason why
there should be a single “best” value of the coefficient for exact exchange ad-
mixture, which yields perfect results for all properties, and the empirical ev-
idence suggests that there is indeed no such value.
In fact, we believe there is some evidence that spin-state splittings, in at
least some cases, are reproduced best by functionals with a very different
proportion of exact exchange. Thus, in the CpCo(CO) 16-electron system, all
ab initio methods and DFT functionals predict a triplet ground state, with a
singlet excited state [59]. In recent calculations on this system [60], we have
found a strong dependence of the spin-state splitting on the proportion of
exact exchange included in the functional. Thus, with the B3LYP functional,
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
177
the difference is of 25.7 kcal/mol, whereas with BP86, the splitting is as small
as 14.9 kcal/mol. We have carried out CCSD(T) calculations on this system,
using very large basis sets on the cobalt atom (quadruple zeta, with 3f, 2g
and 1h polarization functions). At this level, the splitting is of 15.4 kcal/mol
– much closer to the BP86 value than to the B3LYP one. In this system, if the
CCSD(T) result is reliable, then the optimum exchange energy mixing is
clearly of the order of 0%, not 20 or indeed 15%. That being said, the accu-
racy of single-reference treatments of first-row transition metal systems is
much disputed. In some recent work [36], we have argued that these meth-
ods should in fact be quite accurate, even when, as here, fairly large t1 diag-
nostic values [61] of ~0.05 are obtained. However, given that this assessment
of the reliability of the CCSD(T) method is still the subject of much discus-
sion (see [62] for instance), and given that this appears to be one of the only
cases where pure functionals appear to behave better than those with signif-
icant admixture of exact exchange, it is maybe prudent to reserve judgement
until more evidence is available.
The previous paragraph serves to highlight a very important point for the
whole area of prediction of spin-state splittings in TM compounds, that of
calibration: to reach some level of confidence that a given functional pre-
dicts spin-state splittings accurately, one needs to know what the true split-
tings are. This is not as straightforward as it sounds. First, for main-group
systems containing relatively few atoms, it is possible to refer DFT calcula-
tions to the results obtained from highly accurate computational calibration.
For example, composite calculations using methods such as the popular G2
or G3 approaches [63, 64], or simply very large basis-set CCSD(T) or MR-CI
computations, can be carried out in such a way as to reach chemical (1 kcal/
mol) accuracy. The above discussion of our CCSD(T) computations on
CpCo(CO) [60] shows that reaching that level of accuracy is still elusive for
many TM compounds. As well as all of the intrinsic difficulties in accounting
for the complex electronic structure of d elements, this is due to the fact that
even small TM compounds are quite large by the standards of accurate ab
initio computations if, that is, they are realistic in the sense of having a
near-complete coordination sphere: CpCo(CO) has 8 heavy (non-hydrogen)
atoms. Much work is currently being done to try and reach a better degree
of accuracy in treating spin-state splittings in TM complexes using ab initio
methods (see [36, 65–67] for example), but this is still very difficult, so that
routine calibration of DFT by ab initio methods is not really possible for the
present problem.
The other approach to calibration, by comparison with experimental data,
also presents difficulties. Here, the problem is in ensuring that the calcula-
tions relate correctly to the experiment, which, in this field, most frequently
refers to finite-temperature free energy differences in the condensed phase.
As well as obtaining accurate electronic energy differences, therefore, zero-
point energy (zpe), thermal or enthalpic (H), entropic (S), and medium ef-
178
J.N. Harvey
fects need to be computed or at least accounted for in some way so as to
make a comparison. For TM compounds, scalar relativistic and spin-orbit
coupling effects on the electronic energies are needed. The second of these
in particular can be fairly large (a few kcal/mol) and is not trivial to com-
pute. Computation of vibrational frequencies enables a reasonable approxi-
mation to the zpe, H and S terms to be computed using the standard expres-
sions of statistical thermodynamics. However, for realistic TM complexes,
this procedure is less accurate than for small closed-shell species, as one
may have multiple minima, floppy (highly anharmonic) potential energy
surfaces, and so on. Finally, medium effects can be important. Using a con-
tinuum solvation model, it has been found [68] that the spin-state splitting
in various Co(L)6
3+ species (L=H2O or NH3) can differ by up to 5 kcal/mol
in the gas-phase and in solution. Clearly, if such effects are general, “agree-
ment with experiment” for a gas-phase calculation would be undesirable! To
take another example, the calculations on Mn(C5H5)2 mentioned above [40]
were carried out in the gas-phase, yet the experimental spin-state splitting
refers to the solid phase, in which manganocene adopts a polymeric struc-
ture, with significant inter-complex interaction, which will almost certainly
affect the spin-state splitting to a significant extent. Here too, the exact cor-
respondence between experiment and theory is thus not straightforward.
A final question concerns the interpretation of the observation that exact
exchange admixture affects spin-state splittings. Why does it do this? What
does this tell us about pure and hybrid functionals? What does it suggest for
future functional development? The first fairly obvious point to be made is
that pure density functionals do not appear to describe exchange interactions
correctly in many cases. The evidence described above, whereby pure DFTs
often exaggerate the stability of low-spin states compared to experiment, is
so wide-ranging that it is not possible that this is due in each case to prob-
lems with interpretation of the calculations. It is in a sense no surprise that
the simple, local, expressions used to evaluate exchange energy are unable to
capture the complex nature of this phenomenon in all cases. However, for
many main-group compounds, the problem does not appear to be a big one
– fairly accurate energetics are obtained in many cases, and indeed spin-state
splittings are also fairly reliable as shown by Tables 1 and 2.
From this point of view, the improvement of the description upon using
hybrid functionals can be described as resulting from a fortunate cancella-
tion of errors. However, it could be argued that this cancellation is not pure-
ly accidental, or at least that it can be partly expected on other theoretical
grounds.
First, it is by now well-known that the poor cancellation of electron self-
interaction in DFT can lead to a substantial error in the energy of d orbitals
(see [69] and references therein). Self-interaction corrected DFT leads to
much improved results for such systems. This has mostly been noticed in
the context of periodic studies of metal oxides such as ZnO. Ziegler has
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
179
pointed out [70] that the wrong electronic structure obtained for CuCl4

with pure DFT functionals [57] is due to self-interaction errors that affect
the energies of the d orbitals. The same author has shown recently [71] that
the treatment of a number of transition states, such as that of the simple
H+H2 system, is much improved upon using self-interaction corrected DFT,
and stated that self-interaction errors affect spin-state splittings in TM com-
pounds [70].
Next, it is observed in other contexts that properties whose calculated val-
ues are strongly affected by the self-interaction error are improved upon
mixing in progressively more HF exact exchange. The best example here is
the same energy barriers for hydrogen atom abstraction reactions, whose
treatment is improved with pure, but self-interaction corrected, DFTs [71]. It
is well-known [37, 38] that they are poorly described by pure functionals,
and that large (~50%) amounts of exact exchange are needed by functionals
to generate accurate barrier heights.
Finally, in careful comparative studies of the molecular electron densities
generated by HF, correlated ab initio, and pure, self-interaction corrected,
and hybrid DFT calculations, Cremer et al have made a very interesting ob-
servation [72, 73]. They found that the pure DFT generated densities dif-
fered from those obtained with accurate ab initio methods in a particular
way, and that both hybrid, and self-interaction corrected DFT methods,
yielded densities closer to the correct ones. Based on this observation, they
suggested that mixing in of exact exchange in hybrid functionals serves as a
proxy for the self-interaction correction.
Based on these three points, it appears consistent with all of these obser-
vations that self-interaction errors mean that pure DFT gives a poor descrip-
tion of d orbital levels and so of spin-state splittings, and that like in other
cases, exact exchange mixing can correct this error, by serving as an effec-
tive self-interaction correction. In this picture, the amount of exact exchange
needed to correct the self-interaction error might well vary depending on
the severity of this problem, and there would be no reason to expect system-
atic behaviour. Instead, one might think that accurate and reliable spin-state
splittings could only be obtained for TM compounds with a new generation
of functionals developed to be self-interaction error free from the start.
However, this argument certainly cannot yet prove that different amounts
of HF exchange will be needed for different metal complexes. In fact, there
is a considerable amount of evidence that for many compounds, an exact ex-
change proportion of roughly 15% gives good results. From a pragmatic
point of view, therefore, the use of such modified functionals must be rec-
ommended at present, until more calculations, better calibration, and a
deeper understanding of DFT performance in this area are available.
180
J.N. Harvey
6
Conclusions
In conclusion, DFT methods must be used with caution when attempting to
predict the spin-state splitting between TM compounds. Large variations, of
20 kcal/mol or more, have been observed between computed splittings using
different DFT functionals. This effect is particularly strong for first-row TM
systems, which are unfortunately those that most often display high-spin
states! In general, “pure” DFTs tend to overestimate the stability of low-spin
forms, and results obtained using such functionals must therefore be treated
with great suspicion. Including HF exact exchange leads to an improved be-
haviour in many cases, and an optimum spin-state mixing of roughly 15%
has been proposed [39, 40], which, based on current knowledge, seems to
yield very good results.
Nevertheless, there are still considerable uncertainties about the generali-
ty of this observation. First, accurate calibration is difficult for TM com-
pounds, so that it may be hard to be certain what the “correct” value is, let
alone whether a given functional reproduces it! Next, a theoretical analysis
suggests that the strong dependence of state-splittings on exact exchange ad-
mixture may result from the occurrence of significant self-interaction errors
when using pure functionals. This analysis also invites great care in assum-
ing that a single “best” value for exact exchange admixture can be found. In-
deed, problems with self-interaction errors arise in other areas when using
DFT, and can also be partially dealt with by the use of exact exchange. How-
ever, the optimum mixing in such cases is not always close to the 15% sug-
gested to prevail for metal complexes. Clearly, DFT can be an inexpensive
and useful aide for assessing spin-states of TM compounds, but much work
is needed to develop new and more reliable functionals before DFT can be
trusted to yield accurate spin-state energetics in the kind of “black-box”
way in which B3LYP is often used nowadays.
In the meantime, computational chemists working in the area are recom-
mended to compute spin-state splittings of importance to their particular
theoretical project using several different functionals, including at least one
pure functional, and one hybrid one. If large differences are found, results
must be interpreted with care, and computations using hybrid functionals
with ~15% exact exchange are recommended as giving the best current per-
formance for these problems.
Acknowledgements Dr. F. R. Manby is thanked for helpful comments. JNH is an EPSRC
advanced research fellow.
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
181
References
1. Poli R (1996) Chem Rev 96:2135
2. Harvey JN (2001) In: Cundari TR (ed) Computational organometallic chemistry. Mar-
cel Dekker, New York
3. Poli R, Harvey JN (2003) Chem Soc Rev 32:1
4. Harvey JN, Poli R, Smith KM (2003) Coord Chem Rev 238:347
5. Illas F, Moreira IDR, de Graaf C, Barone V (2000) Theor Chem Acc 104:265
6. Ruiz E, Rodriguez-Fortea A, Cano J, Alvarez S, Alemany P (2003) J Comput Chem
24:982
7. Ciofini I, Daul CA (2003) Coord Chem Rev 238:187
8. Filatov M, Harris N, Shaik S (1999) Angew Chem Int Edit 38:3510
9. Jensen F (1999) Introduction to computational chemistry. Wiley, Chichester, UK
10. Siegbahn PEM (1996) In: Prigogine I, Rice SA (eds) Advances in chemical physics,
Vol XCIII, Wiley, New York, p 333
11. Koch W, Holthausen MC (2001) A chemists guide to density functional theory.
Wiley-VCH, Weinheim
12. Perdew JP, Chevary JA, Vosko SH, Jackson KA, Pederson MR, Singh DJ, Fiolhais C
(1992) Phys Rev B 46:6671
13. Boese AD, Doltsinis NL, Handy NC, Sprik M (2000) J Chem Phys 112:1670
14. Hammer B, Hansen LB, Norskov JK (1999) Phys Rev B 59:7413
15. Becke AD (1988) Phys Rev A 38:3098
16. Gill PMW (1996) Mol Phys 89:433
17. Perdew JP (1986) Phys Rev B 33:8822
18. Lee CT, Yang WT, Parr RG (1988) Phys Rev B 37:785
19. Becke AD (1993) J Chem Phys 98:1372
20. Becke AD (1993) J Chem Phys 98:5648
21. Bauschlicher CW, Partridge H (1995) J Chem Phys 103:1788
22. Scott AP, Platz MS, Radom L (2001) J Am Chem Soc 123:6069
23. Worthington SE, Cramer CJ (1997) J Phys Org Chem 10:755
24. Harvey JN (unpublished work)
25. Baerends EJ, Branchadell V, Sodupe M (1997) Chem Phys Lett 265:481
26. Mineva T, Goursot A, Daul C (2001) Chem Phys Lett 350:147
27. Weinert M, Watson RE, Fernando GW (2002) Phys Rev A 66:032508
28. Markovits A, Paniagua JC, Lopez N, Minot C, Illas F (2003) Phys Rev B 67:115417
29. Daniel C, Benard M, Dedieu A, Wiest R, Veillard A (1984) J Phys Chem 88:4805
30. Barnes LA, Rosi M, Bauschlicher CW (1991) J Chem Phys 94:2031
31. Delley B, Wrinn M, Luthi HP (1994) J Chem Phys 100:5785
32. Wang WH, Weitz E (1997) J Phys Chem A 101:2358
33. Decker SA, Klobukowski M (1998) J Am Chem Soc 120:9342
34. Gonzalez-Blanco O, Branchadell V (1999) J Chem Phys 110:778
35. Matveev A, Staufer M, Mayer M, Rosch N (1999) Int J Quantum Chem 75:863
36. Harvey JN, Aschi M (2003) Faraday Discuss 124:129
37. Kang JK, Musgrave CB (2001) J Chem Phys 115:11040
38. Lynch BJ, Fast PL, Harris M, Truhlar DG (2000) J Phys Chem A 104:4811
39. Reiher M, Salomon O, Hess BA (2001) Theor Chem Acc 107:48
40. Salomon O, Reiher M, Hess BA (2002) J Chem Phys 117:4729
41. Deng LQ, Margl P, Ziegler T (1999) J Am Chem Soc 121:6479
42. Khoroshun DV, Musaev DG, Vreven T, Morokuma K (2001) Organometallics 20:2007
43. Margl P, Deng LQ, Ziegler T (1999) Organometallics 18:5701
182
J.N. Harvey
44. Ghosh A, Taylor PR (2003) Curr Opin Chem Biol 7:113
45. Scherlis DA, Estrin DA (2002) Int J Quantum Chem 87:158
46. Paulsen H, Duelund L, Winkler H, Toftlund H, Trautwein HX (2001) Inorg Chem
40:2201
47. Reiher M (2002) Inorg Chem 41:6928
48. Chen GJ, Espinosa-Perez G, Zentella-Dehesa A, Silaghi-Dumitrescu I, Lara-Ochoa F
(2000) Inorg Chem 39:3440
49. Chen GJ, Liu RZ, Silaghi-Dumitrescu I, Espinosa-Perez G, Zentella-Dehesa A, Lara-
Ochoa F (2001) Int J Quantum Chem 83:60
50. Brandt P, Norrby PO, Daly AM, Gilheany DG (2002) Chem-Eur J 8:4299
51. Linde C, Akermark B, Norrby PO, Svensson M (1999) J Am Chem Soc 121:5083
52. Abashkin YG, Collins JR, Burt SK (2001) Inorg Chem 40:4040
53. Khavrutskii IV, Musaev DG, Morokuma K (2003) Inorg Chem 42:2606
54. Cavallo L, Jacobsen H (2003) J Phys Chem A 107:5466
55. Jensen VR, Poli R (2003) J Phys Chem A 107:1424
56. Ball DM, Buda C, Gillespie AM, White DP, Cundari TR (2002) Inorg Chem 41:152
57. Szilagyi RK, Metz M, Solomon EI (2002) J Phys Chem A 106:2994
58. Wilson PJ, Tozer DJ (2002) J Chem Phys 116:10139
59. Siegbahn PEM (1996) J Am Chem Soc 118:1487
60. Carron-Macedo J-L, Harvey JN (2004) J Am Chem Soc 126:5789
61. Lee TJ, Taylor PR (1989) Int J Quantum Chem, Quantum Chem Symp 23:199
62. Gagliardi L, Ziegler, Neville S, Garner, Green, Harvey, Eisenstein, Bursten, Kaltsoyan-
nis, Macgregor, Perutz (2003) Faraday Discuss 124:145
63. Curtiss LA, Raghavachari K, Redfern PC, Rassolov V, Pople JA (1998) J Chem Phys
109:7764
64. Curtiss LA, Raghavachari K (2002) Theor Chem Acc 108:61
65. Pierloot K (2003) Mol Phys 101:2083
66. Roos BO, Widmark PO, Gagliardi L (2003) Faraday Discuss 124:57
67. Jensen VR, Thiel W (2001) Organometallics 20:4852
68. Schmiedekamp AM, Ryan MD, Deeth RJ (2002) Inorg Chem 41:5733
69. Meyer B, Marx D (2003) Phys Rev B 67:035403
70. Ziegler T (2003) Faraday Discuss 124:287
71. Patchkovskii S, Ziegler T (2002) J Chem Phys 116:7806
72. Cremer D (2001) Mol Phys 99:1899
73. Polo V, Kraka E, Cremer D (2002) Mol Phys 100:1771
DFT Computation of Relative Spin-State Energetics of Transition Metal Compounds
183
