r 2010 American Chemical Society
188
DOI: 10.1021/ml1001739 |ACS Med. Chem. Lett. 2010, 1, 188–188
IN THIS ISSUE
pubs.acs.org/acsmedchemlett
Prodrugs for Prostate Cancer
The protein-specific antigen (PSA) protein is a molecular target that
is found in abundance in prostate cancer. It is the best tumor marker for
this disease. Because of the adverse effects of the cancer-therapeutic
doxorubicin, specific targeting is desirable. Elsadek et al. (DOI: 10.1021/
ml100060m) now describe the synthesis and characterization of the
peptide-conjugate prodrug of doxorubicin. Many compounds have an
N-maleimide function for reaction with a specific cysteine in human
serum albumin.
One specific compound is designed to be a protein-bound protease-
activated prodrug, which accumulates in tumors due to enhanced
permeability retention and then is cleaved by a protease-specific anti-
gen to release active doxorubicin. This prodrug is stable and has anti-
proliferative effects in a PSA-specific prostate cancer cell line, making it a
worthy candidate for further preclinical studies.
A Potent CDK Inhibitor as a Cancer Therapeutic
Cyclin-dependent kinases are a family of serine/threonine kinases
atypically activated in all human cancers. Inhibition of these kinases is,
therefore, a strategy used to develop cancer therapeutics. Paruch et al.
(DOI: 10.1021/ml100051d) describe the synthesis of a series of pyrazolo-
pyridimine scaffold inhibitors and subsequent characterization.
The authors used a functional in vivo screen to assess the efficacyof the
small molecules and identified a particularly promising one, dinaciclib. This
drug is currently in phase II clinical trials.
Allosteric Kinase Inhibitors
Theinsulin-likegrowthfactorIreceptorbelongstothereceptortyrosine
kinase family and is a potential target in cancer therapy. Heinrich et al.
(DOI: 10.1021/ml100044h) describe the discovery, structure-activity
relationship analysis, and cocrystallization of novel allosteric inhibitors
of the kinase activity of this enzyme.
Small molecule inhibitors of this enzyme suffer from cross-reactivity
to the insulin receptor ATP-binding site because of the similarity to the
kinase ATP-binding site. Therefore, competitive inhibitors of kinase acti-
vity also potentially inhibit insulin receptor signaling. Because the inhi-
bitors described by the authors bind at an allosteric site, they do not
impact insulin receptor signaling at physiological concentrations. There-
fore, these small molecules are useful as tools for dissecting activity and
as starting points for therapeutics.
