Spin forbidden chemical reactions of transition metal
compounds. New ideas and new computational challenges
Rinaldo Polia and Jeremy N. Harveyb
a Laboratoire de Synthèse et d’Electrosynthèse Organométalliques, Faculté de Sciences
‘Gabriel’, Université de Bourgogne, 6 Boulevard Gabriel, 21100 Dijon, France.
E-mail: poli@u-bourgogne.fr
b School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock’s Close, Bristol, UK BS8 1TS.
E-mail: Jeremy.Harvey@bris.ac.uk
Received 25th July 2002
First published as an Advance Article on the web 14th November 2002
Many reactions of transition metal compounds involve a
change in spin. These reactions may proceed faster,
slower—or at the same rate as—otherwise equivalent
processes in which spin is conserved. For example, ligand
substitution in [CpMo(Cl)2(PR3)2] is faster than expected,
whereas addition of dinitrogen to [Cp*Mo(Cl)(PMe3)2] is
slow. Spin-forbidden oxidative addition of ethylene to
[Cp*Ir(PMe3)] occurs competitively with ligand association.
To explain these observations, we discuss the shape of the
different potential energy surfaces (PESs) involved, and the
energy of the minimum energy crossing points (MECPs)
between them. This computational approach is of great help
in understanding the mechanisms of spin-forbidden reac-
tions, provided that accurate calculations can be used to
predict the relevant PESs. Density functional theory,
especially using gradient-corrected and hybrid functionals,
performs reasonably well for the difficult problem of
predicting the energy splitting between different spin states
of transition metal complexes, although careful calibration
is needed.
1 Introduction
In chemical reactions, bonding electrons get redistributed so
that chemical bonds are broken and formed. When some of the
electrons in the reactants or the products are unpaired, this may
lead to a change of the total electronic spin during the reaction.
Such a change is often referred to as ‘forbidden’, but in fact, it
is more appropriate to say that it is associated with a certain
degree of spin-forbiddenness, which is determined by the
magnitude of the spin-orbit coupling term (SOC) of the
system’s Hamiltonian. Thus, spin changes tend to be more
strictly forbidden when the affected electrons are localised on
light atoms such as carbon, less so when they are on transition
metals. The well-known phenomenon of spin equilibria in
crossover compounds1 highlights that spin changes are in fact
common in transition metal chemistry. When it comes to
chemical reactions, however, most people are either biased by
the forbidden character of such changes and overemphasise
their difficulty, or instead dismiss spin as being unimportant.
Both misconceptions are common and make this field unusually
devoid of clarity. In recent years, a more careful level of
attention to the potential energy surfaces involved and the
regions where they cross, as well as new computational
techniques, are helping to clarify the situation.
In parallel with the work of one of us in this area,2 an
important factor over the last few years in making practicing
transition metal chemists aware of the importance of spin-
forbidden reactions has been the work of Schröder, Schwarz and
Shaik on ‘Two-State Reactivity’ (TSR).3 This concept was first
introduced to rationalize unexpected reactivity trends in gas-
phase reactions such as the oxidation of hydrogen by the iron
oxide cation, FeO+. Spin changes between sextet and quartet
states at different points along the reaction coordinate were
needed to account for the observed reactivity: these ‘spin-
Rinaldo Poli obtained his PhD in 1985 from the Scuola
Normale Superiore in Pisa under the supervision of Fausto
Calderazzo. He spent one year with Geoffrey Wilkinson
(exchange student, 1983–84) and two years with Al Cotton
(research associate, 1985–87). He started his career at the
University of Maryland, Col-
lege Park, where he rose in the
ranks to Full Professor, and
moved to his current Professo-
rial position in 1996. He has
held Visiting Professor posi-
tions at the Technische Uni-
versität München (1993–94),
Tokyo Metropolitan University
(1995), the Inorganic Chem-
istry Laboratory at Oxford
(1998), and Los Alamos Na-
tional Laboratory (2001 and
2002).
Jeremy Harvey was born in Britain in 1969 but moved to
Belgium aged five. He studied Chemistry and Philosophy at the
Université Catholique de Louvain, completing his PhD on
organic reaction mechanisms with Heinz Viehe in 1995. He
spent two years as a Humboldt fellow with Helmut Schwarz at
the Technische Universität Ber-
lin, carrying out experimental
and computational studies of
gas-phase ion-molecule reac-
tions, then one year with Benny
Gerber at the Hebrew Uni-
versity, Jerusalem. In 1999, he
took up a temporary lectureship
in Bristol; his research interests
are in computational chemistry
and reaction mechanisms, par-
ticularly in transition metal
chemistry.
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2003
DOI: 10.1039/b200675h
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
1
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue
forbidden’ events actually led to an enhanced reactivity over
what would have occurred if spin changes had been impossible.
The TSR paradigm has also been applied fruitfully by its
authors to areas such as bioinorganic oxidation by the P450
enzymes.4
With the huge progress in computing power and of software,
and in particular the advent of density functional theory (DFT)
as a practical method in molecular electronic structure,5
computational methods have become one of the standard tools
used by experimental organometallic chemists to assist in
understanding experimental observations.6 However, the prob-
lem of assessing reactivity in spin-forbidden reactions has been
considerably more challenging than for the more common
adiabatic reactions. Fig. 1 helps to explain how such reactions
occur, using the paradigm of the potential energy surface,
which gives the potential energy as a function of the positions of
all the atomic nuclei in the molecule. The surfaces correspond-
ing to the two spin states are shown as light and bold lines,
respectively. A spin change can be thought of as occurring when
the motion of the atoms of the molecule brings the system into
the region where the two surfaces cross, and spin-orbit coupling
then enables a ‘hop’ from one surface to the other. This is shown
in part (a) of Fig. 1, which also shows that this hopping is
associated with a probability p. This first description is
appropriate when spin-orbit coupling is small, so that the
electronic structure is best described in terms of the two pure (or
diabatic) spin states. However, spin-orbit coupling can be very
strong in transition metal compounds, so that a better—or at
least equally good—description of the electronic structure in the
‘crossing’ region involves electronic states and potential energy
surfaces (shown as dashed lines in Fig. 1(b)) of a mixed spin
character, arising from an avoided crossing of the pure spin
states. The system then simply moves towards the crossing
region, and traverses it smoothly on the lowest mixed-spin (or
‘adiabatic’) surface, with the overall spin undergoing a similarly
smooth transition from one limiting value to the other. In this
description, a spin-forbidden reaction is not very different from
normal, spin-allowed, reactions. This is because the barriers
forming the transition states in such reactions can be thought of
as arising following the (strongly) avoided crossing of two
diabatic surfaces. Except in extreme cases, spin-orbit coupling
in spin-forbidden reactions is rarely so strong that the adiabatic
states differ significantly in energy from the diabatic ones,
except within a fairly small region around the crossing point of
the latter. For this reason, finding the crossing point gives very
valuable information as to the relative energy of the regions a
spin-forbidden reaction must necessarily pass through.
Modern computational chemistry packages are typically very
good at locating stationary points, such as minima or saddle
points, on single potential energy surfaces.5,6 Here, one wishes
to locate the region where two such surfaces cross. More
specifically, because the potential energy surfaces are multi-
dimensional and therefore cross in many different points, one
wishes to find the Minimum Energy Crossing Point or MECP
between them. The MECP is not a stationary point on either of
the individual spin surfaces and the common programs cannot
find this point in a practical way for organometallic systems.
However, the algorithm required to locate an MECP is quite
simple, involving an energy minimisation on one surface under
the constraint that the two surfaces have the same energy.
Lagrange multiplier or other techniques have been developed to
optimise MECPs.7,8 All that is needed is to be able to compute
the energy and its gradient on both of the surfaces, and this can
readily be done with the available programs. The particular
implementation developed by one of the authors can be readily
used in conjunction with many of the popular computational
packages, is freely available upon request, and has already been
distributed to several groups working in this area.8 This and
other developments are expected to lead to an increasing
number of computational studies of spin-forbidden transition-
metal reactions. This review will survey the progress made in
this area.9 The common theme of the article will be the
application of the MECP methodology to transition metal
reactivity.
2 Spin change as a reaction acceleration
phenomenon
Recently, one of us introduced the concept of ‘spin accelera-
tion’,2 whereby far from being slower than expected, a spin-
forbidden reaction can proceed faster, because a spin change
allows access to a lower energy pathway, proceeding through
intermediates having a different number of unpaired electrons
(e.g. see Fig. 2). In low-valent (e.g. organometallic) chemistry,
the most typical case involves reagents and products having the
lowest possible spin state (0 for 18-electron complexes; 1⁄
2 for
17-electron complexes) and intermediates having a higher spin
state, but the inverse can also be true in principle. This
phenomenon was first proposed for a ligand exchange process
on 17-electron (S = 1⁄
2) [CpMoCl2(PR3)2], proven by kinetic
investigations to be fast and dissociative. The reconciliation of
this apparent contradiction was based on the hypothesis that,
upon 
ligand 
dissociation, 
the 
resulting 
15-electron
[CpMoCl2(PR3)] is energetically stabilized by flipping an
electron to yield a spin quartet state, like known stable Cr(III)
congeners.10 Proving this proposition would require measure-
ment of the spin state for the reaction intermediate(s), a great
challenge when the intermediate lies in a shallow energy
minimum. Indeed, experimental studies aimed at this goal have
not been successful.
The strongest evidence in favour of this hypothesis came
from computational chemistry. In this first study of an MECP
for a large, realistic organometallic compound, we found the
MECP between the doublet and quartet states of this system to
lie only slightly higher in energy than the quartet dissociation
asymptote, and significantly lower than the spin-allowed
doublet dissociation products. We also found spin-orbit cou-
pling between the doublet and quartet manifolds to be large, so
that facile spin flipping should occur at the MECP. This gave
strong support to the spin acceleration hypothesis.11
In the same paper, we also examined the same reaction using
a much more popular technique for studying spin-forbidden
reactions, which we have called the partial optimisation method.
This involves selecting a reaction coordinate (here, the breaking
Mo–P bond length), and optimising the energy of both spin
states at fixed values of this coordinate. This gives two one-
dimensional curves, whose crossing gives an estimate to the
MECP geometry and energy, as shown in Fig. 3. However, this
Fig. 1 Schematic description of spin changes, in the (a) low and (b) high
spin-orbit coupling limits.
Fig. 2 Qualitative energy profile for a spin-accelerated reaction.
2
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
technique is less accurate because it only gives a lower bound to
the energy of the MECP, as the two partially optimised
geometries for a given value of the reaction coordinate are
typically quite different. Indeed, only one of the 3N-6 internal
coordinates is kept the same for the independent surfaces, while
the Franck-Condon principle requires that both energies and
geometries be the same in order for the spin hopping to take
place. Also, the partial optimisation method is significantly
more expensive computationally, in that many partial optimisa-
tions need to be carried out, instead of a single MECP
optimisation.
3 Spin-change induced reaction barriers
The example in the previous section shows that a reaction with
an endothermic, rate-determining, step (such as a ligand
dissociation) can feature spin acceleration provided a change in
spin opens up a lower-lying dissociation asymptote. In contrast,
exothermic reactions such as ligand association steps may
involve an enthalpic barrier whose existence is solely due to the
need to change the spin state. This principle is illustrated by Fig.
4. The MECP has a greater energy than the reagent energy if the
reaction follows path (a) and a lower energy if it follows
pathway (b). Therefore, a spin-change related enthalpic barrier
(DH‡) exists only in case (a). It is important to underline that
this barrier has nothing to do with the spin ‘forbiddenness’
concept. Its presence is simply related to the need to achieve the
same energy for the same geometry on both spin surfaces in
order to allow the spin hopping process.
An example of this phenomenon is provided by another
ligand dissociation/association reaction that one of us has
studied in detail.12 Complex [Cp*MoCl(PMe3)2] is an example
of a spin-stabilized open-shell organometallic compound,
featuring a spin triplet ground state for 16 valence electrons.
This compound was shown to react with either CO or N2 to
achieve the saturated and diamagnetic, 18-electron ligand
addition product, [Cp*MoCl(PMe3)2(L)] (L = CO or N2). The
reaction with CO was found to be ca. three orders of magnitude
faster than the reaction with N2, even though the two ligands are
isoelectronic and isosteric. This situation did not appear
‘normal’, because in all previous comparative kinetic studies of
CO and N2 addition to a given formally unsaturated fragment,
the rates were found to be identical or at least very similar to
each other. The question was therefore asked as to whether the
spin change might be responsible for this unusual behaviour. Ab
initio calculations, which were initially carried out at the MP2
level, confirmed this hypothesis and provided a greater insight
into this phenomenon (see Fig. 5).
The crucial difference between the two reactions lies in the
relative bonding strength of CO, N2, and the other ligands
already present on the metal fragment, and its effect on the
shape of the triplet potential energy surface. When the new
ligand is included, the electron count around the metal is
formally 18, which, in a triplet state, means that one at least of
the ligands must have weaker or no bonding at all. In the N2
case, because dinitrogen is the weakest ligand involved, it
Fig. 3 Energies of the partially optimised doublet and quartet states of
[CpMo(Cl)2(PH3)2], relative to the doublet minimum. The dashed lines
show the relative energies of the dissociated doublet and quartet states.
Reproduced from ref. 11, by permission of the Royal Society of Chemistry
(RSC) and the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS).
Fig. 5 MP2 reaction co-ordinates (partial optimisation method) for the reaction of CpMoCl(PH3)2 with N2 (a) and CO (b). Reproduced with permission from
ref. 12, copyright 1997 American Chemical Society.
Fig. 4 Qualitative energy profiles for exothermic reactions involving a spin
change.
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
3
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
cannot bond at all to the metal, and the triplet potential energy
curve upon approaching this ligand is fairly strongly repulsive,
excepting a shallow van der Waals well at larger bond lengths.
Crossing with the attractive singlet surface leads to a spin-
change induced barrier. Carbon monoxide, in contrast, estab-
lishes a stronger bond than, e.g. the chloride. As a consequence,
as CO approaches, it bonds partly to the metal, with the Mo–Cl
bonding undergoing simultaneous weakening. The combined
effect of these stabilising and destabilising contributions is
weakly repulsive at longer Mo–C distances, but becomes
favourable as the ligand approaches closer. The (purely
attractive) singlet curve crosses the triplet curve in the region
where the latter is repulsive, but as the repulsion is much less
than in the case of N2, the crossing is consequently occurring at
a much lower relative energy. This difference in the spin
change-induced barriers, shown in Fig. 5, explains why the
dinitrogen reaction is so much slower.
Although this initial computational study12 was carried out
using the less accurate partial optimisation method, using the
small [CpMo(Cl)(PH3)2(L)] model system, and at the MP2 level
of theory (which sometimes yields incorrect results for
transition metal systems), it gave results which were in excellent
qualitative agreement with experimental observations. In a
more recent study,13 the relevant MECPs have been optimised
for the small model and a larger one, [CpMo(Cl)(PMe3)2(L)],
using DFT. The computed enthalpic barriers, for the large
model, to recombination for N2 (14.4 kcal mol21) and for CO
(6.7 kcal mol21) are in near-quantitative agreement with the
experimental values of (14.0 ± 1.0) and (5.0 ± 0.3) kcal mol21,
respectively.
This newer study also highlighted some of the difficulties
involved in computations on open-shell organometallic species.
When the study was started, it became apparent that both the
singlet and triplet [CpMo(Cl)(PH3)2] fragments, which have
three-legged piano stool geometries, actually have two distinct
energy minima characterised by a different (PMoP) angle, and
different occupations of the metal-based aA and aB orbitals. Four
interaction curves between the ligand and the organometallic
moiety are therefore conceivable, leading to several possible
crossing points, a point which had not been appreciated in the
previous study. The ‘partial optimisation’ curves for the
approach of N2 to the metal are summarised in Fig. 6.
The most interesting point is that the ground state of the
addition product, CpMoCl(PH3)2N2, is actually derived from
the fourth lowest state of the educt, CpMoCl(PH3)2 (21AA, d-
occupancy (1aA)2(aB)2). In the most stable singlet state of the
educt (11AA, d-occupancy (1aA)2(2aA)2), the potential 2aA ac-
ceptor orbital is already occupied. This point was missed in the
original investigation. Nevertheless, the newest study repro-
duces the previously determined significant surfaces (3AB and
21AA) as well as the essential conclusion that the nitrogen
addition reaction has a spin barrier. The CO addition process
affords a qualitatively identical picture. As already mentioned,
the accurate determination of the key MECP, occurring between
the 3AB and 2 1AA states, gives results in good quantitative
agreement with experiment for both ligand addition processes.
Despite these extra details, the physical interpretation of the
experiments remains the same: CO adds faster than N2 to
[Cp*Mo(Cl)(PMe3)2] because the spin change induced barrier
is smaller. The correct interpretation of the experimental data in
the earlier study, however, turns out to have been partly
fortuitous, given the extra electronic states found to play a role
in this chemistry. This serves as a reminder that in computa-
tional studies of open-shell, unsaturated species, one should
make sure that all the relevant electronic states have been
carefully identified!
Clearly, the spin-forbidden nature of a ligand association
reaction can have a highly variable effect on its rate, depending
on the presence (and height) or absence of a spin change
induced barrier. In turn, the nature of this barrier will usually be
correlated with the attractive or repulsive nature of the high-spin
potential energy surface. It is not possible to reach meaningful
conclusions about rates without taking into account these details
of the surfaces involved. In this context, it is interesting to
compare the reactions just mentioned with two other ligand
association reactions which have been the subject of consider-
able discussion in the literature. Detrich et al. found the CO
addition to spin triplet [TpCo(CO)] (Tp = hydrotris(3-
isopropyl-5-methylpyrazolyl)borate), yielding spin singlet
[TpCo(CO)2], to be very fast and therefore proposed that spin
changes will not usually have an effect on reaction rates.14 On
the other hand, gas phase studies on the spin-forbidden CO
addition to triplet [Fe(CO)4] to give singlet [Fe(CO)5] have
shown it to be three orders of magnitude slower than the spin-
allowed but otherwise comparable addition of CO to triplet
[Fe(CO)3].15 The authors attributed this to the spin-forbidden
nature of the first reaction.
These two sets of results are not at all inconsistent: they
merely reflect the fact that the spin change barriers are of
different magnitude in the two reactions. This is because in the
[Fe(CO)5] case, the 3[Fe(CO)4] – CO potential energy surface is
largely repulsive, whereas the 3[TpCo(CO)] – CO curve is
somewhat attractive. This can be readily understood on the basis
of our previous discussion: because all the ligands are the same
in the [Fe(CO)5] system, no net gain is to be expected from
weakening one of the existing Fe–C bonds in [Fe(CO)4] so as to
accommodate the incoming CO. Indeed, explicit location of the
singlet/triplet MECP in [Fe(CO)5] found it to lie higher in
energy than the CO + 3[Fe(CO)4] asymptote at the B3LYP level
of theory.9b Another such example, in which spin change leads
to a net barrier to ligand association, is the reaction, studied by
one of us, between quintet haem and carbon monoxide.16 In
contrast, in the [TpCo(CO)] case, the bonding between cobalt
and the pyrazolyl groups of Tp is probably weaker than the
bonds to carbonyl, so that an attractive interaction can result
from a redistribution of bonding character from the Co–N to
Co–C bond. Although we have not yet located MECPs in this
system, we have some computational evidence for this
supposition. Thus, as in the [Cp*Mo(Cl)(PMe3)2(CO)] case,12
[TpCo(CO)2] is found to have a bound triplet state, lying higher
in energy than the experimentally observed singlet species, but
lower in energy than the 3[TpCo(CO)] + CO asymptote.17 All
ligand–Co bond lengths at this triplet minimum are 0.1–0.2 Å
longer than in 3[TpCo(CO)] and 1[TpCo(CO)2], consistent with
a picture whereby all bonds have some anti-bonding character.
The stability of this species suggests that the spin change
barrier, if there is one, is likely to be small.
Fig. 6 B3LYP linear transit curves for the co-ordination of N2 to the four
lowest electronic states of [CpMoCl(PH3)2]. [See ref 13] Key optimised
structures are viewed along the Mo–Cp centroid axis.
4
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
4 C–H Bond activation and reaction selectivities
Like the ligand association reactions we have just considered,
oxidative addition to a metal centre, for example C–H bond
activation, is often spin-forbidden. In both cases, the starting
product is an unsaturated, typically 16-electron species, and
these often have high-spin ground states. In contrast, the ligand
addition product or C–H inserted species are usually closed-
shell, 18-electron singlets. Unlike ligand association reactions,
where the low-spin surface is most often uniformly attractive,
oxidative addition frequently involves adiabatic barriers on the
low-spin surface, separating the inserted species either from the
fragments or from a non-inserted adduct. Whereas slow rates in
spin-forbidden ligand association can only be due to the
existence of a spin-change induced barrier, oxidative addition
can be due either to the adiabatic barrier or to the spin-change
barrier. Energy profiles corresponding to typical examples of
the two reactions are shown in Fig. 7. In the specific example of
Fig. 7(b), the surface includes a fairly strongly bound singlet
alkane adduct, 1[M·(RH)], and the spin change barrier precedes
the formation of this adduct. The ordering and the relative
energy of the barriers and intermediates will of course depend
on the system. The triplet surfaces are shown as being repulsive
in both cases. As discussed above, this may not always be so for
ligand association reactions, but usually will be for C–H
addition reactions of alkanes, because the latter are such weak
ligands.
Because the spin change barrier or MECP has traditionally
been difficult to find, computational studies in this area have
mostly focused on the adiabatic barriers. This can be mislead-
ing. For example, we showed in a comparative study18 of
methane oxidative addition to the spin triplet complexes
[Cp2W], [CH2(C5H4)2W], and [Cp*2W], that the experimental
trends in this and the reverse, reductive elimination reaction,
could only be understood by considering both the adiabatic
insertion barrier and the spin-change induced barrier. In some
cases, of course, the spin-change barrier may be unimportant,
but this should be shown, e.g. by computation, rather than
simply assumed.
The [Cp*Ir(PR3)] fragment is a prominent example of a
species which can activate alkane C–H bonds. This system has
been the object of a large amount of experimental19 and more
recently computational work. Computations agree in predicting
that this 16-electron fragment has a triplet ground state. Because
the inserted compounds are singlets, these reactions are spin-
forbidden. Spin-orbit coupling should be strong (third-row
transition metal), so reasoning in terms of pure singlet and
triplet states is not entirely appropriate, as discussed in the
context of Fig. 1. However, such an approach should give a
reasonable first approximation to the potential energy surfaces
involved. Most computational studies of C–H bond activation in
these systems have focussed only on the adiabatic insertion
barriers.
Our subject here is a slightly different variation on the same
theme, in which the insertion partner is no longer an alkane, but
an alkene: the reaction of C2H4 with [Cp*Ir(PMe3)(H)(c-
C6H11)].20 The experimental work on this reaction, including
careful studies of the inter- and intramolecular isotope effects
upon reaction with various deuterio ethylenes, led to the
proposal of an empirical mechanism,20 as shown in Fig. 8.
The reaction starts with 1, which undergoes the reverse of an
oxidative addition, reductive elimination, to give the key
intermediate 2 upon heating. In turn, this fragment reacts with
ethylene to give a mixture of the C–H bond activation product
4, and of the addition product 5. The isotope effects in this step
were best explained on the basis of the initial reversible
formation of a weak s-complex 3 between the alkene and the
unsaturated intermediate 2, which then partitions into the two
products. The ethylene p-complex is the most stable species in
this system, and the inserted species 4, although inert under the
reaction conditions, rearranges quantitatively upon further
heating. An initial theoretical study21 of this remarkable
reaction focussed on the singlet potential energy surface, which
is at first sight reasonable given that the reactant and the
products are closed-shell, 18-electron species. However, the
calculations were unable to explain the selectivity, because
association of ethylene to the singlet fragment 2 to give 5 was
found to be barrierless, and the authors speculated—correctly,
as it turned out—that triplet states might be involved.
This reaction represents a still more challenging computa-
tional problem than the alkane activation reactions. The aim of
our study of this reaction22 was to understand the origin of
selectivity, in terms of the competition between two spin-
forbidden pathways: one leading to oxidative addition, and one
to ligand association. Our computed potential energy surfaces,
showing the key MECPs, are presented in Fig. 9. Most of our
computations were carried out on the simplified model system,
[CpIr(PH3)] + (C2H4). The left-hand part of the Figure shows
the profile for loss of methane, which was chosen to model the
experimental cyclohexane moiety involved. It should be noted
that in this case, the MECP between the singlet and triplet
surfaces lies slightly higher than the singlet separated products.
This is because the triplet potential energy surface for
interaction of methane with [CpIr(PH3)] is largely repulsive.
The adiabatic insertion/elimination barrier on the singlet surface
(not shown on the Figure), in contrast, lies low in energy. This
confirms our previous statement: reactivity in C–H bond
Fig. 7 Generic singlet and triplet potential energy surfaces for (a) ligand
association and (b) C–H oxidative addition to a triplet unsaturated metal
fragment, 3[M].
Fig. 8 Empirical reaction mechanism for the competitive coordinative addition and C–H oxidative addition of ethylene to Cp*Ir(PMe3).
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
5
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
activation of alkanes is in this case determined more by the spin-
change induced barrier than by the adiabatic insertion barrier.
Dissociation should lead in the first instance to the singlet
fragment. Unimolecular relaxation to the triplet state should
then be faster than any subsequent bimolecular step, for entropic
reasons.
Turning to the more interesting right-hand part of the Figure,
and following it all the way to the right-hand side, the ligand
association of ethylene can be seen to lie somewhere between
the two extremes discussed above: whilst addition of ethylene
on the triplet surface is exothermic by 10.8 kcal mol21, because
partial binding of ethylene is more stabilising than the
concomitant partial loss of bonding to the Cp ring, this bonding/
unbonding pathway does not occur smoothly, so that the triplet
surface is not uniformly attractive. There are in fact two small
barriers which must be crossed on the way to the triplet local
minimum. Although the MECP with the singlet state lies well
below the triplet reactants (at 210.4 kcal mol21), it should
therefore be expected that ligand association will not be
diffusion controlled. In fact, the overall barrier to ethylene
association is somewhat larger than would appear from Fig. 9,
because 
our 
more 
limited 
calculations 
on 
the 
real
[Cp*Ir(PMe3)] system indicate that steric hindrance by the Cp*
and PMe3 ligands leads to this portion of the triplet potential
energy surface lying somewhat higher in energy than shown on
Fig. 9.22
What, then, of the C–H oxidative addition process? As in the
case of the methane reductive elimination profile at the left of
Fig. 9, the adiabatic insertion barrier is low-lying. This barrier,
lying at 27.7 kcal mol21, is a bit unusual in this case, because
instead of connecting the C–H insertion product to a relatively
weakly bound van der Waals-type adduct of the R–H moiety
with the metal, as in the case of methane, it connects the C–H
insertion product to a very strongly bound p-complex. Never-
theless, as for the methane addition reaction, it is in fact the spin
change barrier which limits the rate of addition, rather than this
adiabatic barrier. As already mentioned, the triplet ethylene –
[CpIr(PH3)] potential is much less repulsive than the corre-
sponding methane surface, and the spin-change barrier is much
lower, lying only 2.3 kcal mol21 above the fragments. This is
comparable in height to the effective barrier to spin-forbidden
ligand association, caused by the triplet surface barriers to
association of ethylene. The similarity in the two barriers
explains the experimental observation that both products are
formed in roughly equal amounts. The uncertainties due to the
choice of method (see below), the use of model compounds, and
the neglect of spin-orbit coupling and dynamical effects, mean
that quantitative predictions are impossible for what is after all
a very complicated problem. Nevertheless, the ability to
characterise the spin-change induced barriers, in the form of
MECPs between singlet and triplet surfaces, enabled us to
propose a computational model of this complex reaction which
accounts for the key experimental observations.
5 Spin-states and computational accuracy
To locate meaningful MECPs, accurate computation of spin
state relative energies is necessary. This rather obvious
principle is schematically illustrated by Fig. 10, in which the
first spin state is assumed to be well described by both levels of
theory used, whereas the relative stability of the second state is
underestimated at the unspecified ‘incorrect’ level. This leads to
an apparent MECP which is different both in terms of geometry
and of relative energy from the ‘true’ MECP. An extreme
example of such behaviour was given for the test case of the
phenyl cation, in ref. 8. The Hartree-Fock level of theory
predicted a completely wrong geometry and relative energy for
the MECP between the singlet and triplet states of this cation, as
a consequence of its underlying poor description of the energy
difference between these states.
This problem has an analogue in single-surface computa-
tional chemistry. Reactants and products, even when they lie on
the same potential energy surface, often have different correla-
tion energies, and lower levels of theory may provide a poor
description of their relative energy. One can think of the
reactants and products as being described by diabatic valence-
bond wavefunctions which undergo strong mixing in the region
of the transition state. A poor description of one of the valence-
bond states will distort the geometry and relative energy of the
transition state, as shown in Fig. 11. However, unless the
relative energy error is enormous, the ‘smoothing’ effect of the
avoided crossing means that geometries and even energies of
computed TSs can be fairly reliable, and in any case, single-
Fig. 9 Potential energy surfaces relevant to the two-state ligand association
and C–H oxidative addition reactions for the model [CpIr(PH3)] – C2H4
reaction. Relative energies in kcal mol21. Reproduced with permission from
ref. 22, copyright 2001 Wiley-VCH.
Fig. 10 Incorrect position of the MECP between two spin states when the
relative energy of the two states is poorly described.
Fig. 11 Incorrect description of an adiabatic TS due to an imbalanced
treatment of the diabatic states (of same electronic spin!) corresponding to
the reactants and products.
6
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
point higher-level energies can be calculated at the lower-level
optimised geometry of the TS, to yield much more accurate
energetics. With no ‘smoothing’, and the fact that single-point
energies are not meaningful (although an alternative dual high-
level/low-level approach has been suggested8), the problem is
probably worse for MECPs.
An accuracy of the order of 2 kcal mol21 on relative spin state
energetics is needed when looking for MECPs, and this is one of
the first things which should be checked when a study is
undertaken. The whole MECP approach, based on the use of
zeroth-order, spin-orbit free, surfaces, is an approximation in
itself, and ultimately can only yield semi-quantitative results
(see Fig. 1), so higher accuracy is not really necessary.
How can one get energies that are this accurate? Let us first
consider this question in relation to a very simple compound.
Methylene (CH2) has a triplet ground state and a low-lying
singlet excited state. The Hartree-Fock level5 significantly
overestimates the excitation energy, due to the neglect of
correlation energy, which is larger for singlet states. Due to a
partial multi-reference character of the singlet state, the simple
single-reference methods5 (which mix a large number of excited
configurations with the Hartree-Fock wavefunction) such as
MP2 (second order perturbation theory) only recover part of the
correlation energy difference.23 More advanced single-refer-
ence methods, such as the CCSD(T) coupled-cluster theory, are
needed for good results. Multi-reference methods, in which a
small number of configurations are included in the wavefunc-
tion from the very start, give good results, and the very accurate
multi-reference configuration interaction techniques can be
used to approach the exact result. Large basis sets are also
needed to converge the energy difference.
Such methods are however expensive, so that it is still
extremely difficult to carry out traditional ab initio computa-
tions of a sufficient quality, both in terms of correlation and
basis sets, for realistic multi-ligand metal complexes. For this
reason, even ‘benchmark’ computations on medium sized
systems need to be treated with caution, especially when a
single method is used, as the convergence (or lack of it) to the
correlation and basis set limits can usually only be judged based
on a series of computations at increasingly high levels. Whilst
convergence can be achieved for smaller systems (roughly 5
atoms or less), peculiarities in the electronic structure of such
systems make extrapolation difficult.
DFT5 has become a popular approach throughout computa-
tional chemistry because it offers results that are in principle
exact, at a cost similar to that of the Hartree-Fock method, and
is thereby readily applicable to the field of transition metal
chemistry.6 The problem is that the exact functional is
unknown, and the many different approximate functionals tend
to give different results. For example, the state-splitting in
methylene can vary from ca. 10 kcal mol21, with the B3LYP
functional, to as much as 17.5 kcal mol21 with the B3PW91
method.24 Given that the experimental value is 9.4 kcal mol21,
B3LYP is in this case well within our desired accuracy bracket,
whereas the other functional is not. For a system where the exact
result is unknown, how should one choose? Is there a general
rule (e.g. ‘BP86 is best’), or will the ‘best’ functional vary on a
case by case basis?
Benchmarking of DFT by ab initio calculations leads to
uncertain results, because it is often not clear how accurate the
benchmarks themselves are. Such work (see for example ref.
25) is expected to become more important as computers and
programs improve. Comparing with experiment is easier, with
lots of information available on the ground state multiplicity,
and sometimes the state splittings, of complexes. Unfortunately,
there are as yet few systematic studies of functional perform-
ance, and direct comparison with experiment can be difficult
due to the need to assess the importance of basis set limitations,
solvent effects and free energy contributions. Also, the many
new density functionals which are being constantly developed
are rarely tested on any transition metal systems, let alone on
state splittings, so that their performance is even harder to
gauge.
Nevertheless, it can be observed that the nature of the
exchange part of the functional has a strong influence on
computed spin-state splittings. In particular, the proportion of
‘exact’, Hartree-Fock, exchange present, plays an important
role. As already mentioned, pure Hartree-Fock calculations
overestimate the stability of high-spin states because they
describe electron exchange, but not electron correlation. At the
other extreme, the simple, local spin density functional tends to
exaggerate the stability of low-spin states. Gradient-corrected
(‘non-local’) functionals such as the popular BP86 and BLYP
functionals give an intermediate behaviour, which is often close
to the experimental values. Hybrid functionals, such as B3LYP,
BHalf-and-HalfLYP or B1LYP, also often closely approximate
the experimental behaviour, with a tendency for the relative
stability of the high-spin states to increase as the proportion of
Hartree-Fock exchange is increased.
The dependence is particularly strong for compounds of the
elements in the first transition row (Sc–Cu), which presumably
is related to the large exchange interactions between the
compact 3d orbitals. For this reason, different functionals
frequently predict different ground states. For example, Paulsen
et al. calculated the state splitting between singlet and quintet
states of some Fe(II) spin-crossover compounds, using a variety
of density functionals.26 From experimental results, the tem-
perature at which the two states have the same free energy in
solution or in the solid state is well known. The authors
computed this free energy difference in the gas phase, and found
that the B3LYP method gave a negative DG (favouring the
quintet), whereas the BLYP and PW91 functionals favoured the
singlet. The different predictions varied by as much as 20 kcal
mol21, with the B3LYP value, whilst incorrect, closest to the
experimental value.
Reiher et al. made a related observation concerning com-
puted singlet–quintet gaps in a family of Fe(II)-thiolato
complexes.27 They showed that the state splitting was linearly
proportional to, and highly dependent on, the percentage of
‘exact’ exchange included in the functional, with pure func-
tionals favouring the singlet, and hybrid functionals favouring
the quintet. They found the best agreement with experiment, for
the compounds they were considering, to occur with a modified
form of the B3LYP functional, in which the proportion of exact
exchange was reduced from 20 to 15%. It cannot however be
expected that this ad hoc parameterisation will apply to all
compound types. Khoroshun et al. also found hybrid functionals
to favour high-spin states for a range of intermediates involved
in a reaction profile relevant to polymerisation catalysis by a set
of bis(imino)pyridyl Fe(II) complexes.28 Here too, the sugges-
tion was that the B3LYP functional was in better agreement
with experiment than the pure functionals.
The dependence on exchange functional tends to be much
smaller with the second- and third-row transition metals, with
variations of 1–10 kcal mol21, for example, found between
BLYP and B3LYP for the singlet–triplet splitting in a set of
technetium compounds,29 as compared to the differences of
20–30 kcal mol21 mentioned above for iron compounds.26,27
We have carried out some calculations17 on a very interesting
complex, [CpANb(Cl)2(PEt3)2] (CpA = C5H4Me), which is
known from experiment to have a singlet ground state with a
triplet lying 2.3 kcal mol21 higher in energy.30 In this case,
B3LYP predicts instead a triplet ground state (by 2.1 kcal
mol21), but BP86 reproduces the experimental splitting fairly
well.
To summarise, DFT does give qualitatively useful predic-
tions of state-splittings, but needs to be used with caution, as the
current functionals tend to disagree and there is no general rule
as to which functional or class of functionals performs best. The
need for caution is particularly true for first-row elements. A
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
7
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
useful rule of thumb is that ‘pure’ functionals such as BP86 tend
to exaggerate the stability of low-spin forms, whereas hybrid
functionals such as B3LYP somewhat overestimate the stability
of high-spin species. In the long term, it is to be hoped that a
combination of experimentally-based calibration studies, high-
level ab initio benchmarks, and the development and improve-
ment of functionals will lead to a better level of predictability in
the computation of spin state splittings. Because of their large
dependence on exchange, it would in fact be valuable to use spin
state splittings, especially of first transition row elements, in the
early evaluation of new functionals.
How should one proceed in the meantime? In the first place,
it is necessary to recognise that calibration is a large part of any
multi-spin state study of transition metal chemistry. As a first
step, one should check that the chosen method reproduces the
multiplicity of the ground state of any species for which this is
known. Any known experimental data on relative energies of
spin states—even for species only partly comparable to those of
interest—can also provide a very helpful assessment of the
likely accuracy of the calculations. Computed bond energies
can give indirect insight into relative spin states. Where bonding
of a ligand is accompanied by a change in spin state, many
methods can give quite accurate ‘prepared state’ bond energies,
calculated with respect to the excited-state fragment, with the
same spin as the whole molecule. This is because the change in
electronic structure upon forming such a bond is smaller than
when considering the true bond formation step. If the computed
bond energy matches experiment, and the prepared state bond
energy is felt to be reliable, then the excitation energy should
also be well described. Finally, it is always useful to compare
predictions from several very different functionals, such as
BP86, B3LYP, and BHandHLYP, so as to check whether there
is a large dependence on the treatment of exchange.
6 Conclusions
In this review, we have tried to show how reactions involving
changes in electronic spin are fairly common in transition metal
chemistry. Understanding the effect this can have on reactivity
requires a careful consideration of the relevant potential energy
surfaces, and the regions where they cross, in the vicinity of
MECPs. It is simply not enough to decide that all these
processes are forbidden, or equally that ‘forbiddenness’ is a
useless concept! To gain the detailed knowledge needed to
unravel reactivity in some of these systems, the insight available
from computational chemistry is particularly valuable, and this
explains the importance of such studies in this area.
Two important types of reaction have been discussed in more
detail: ligand association, and oxidative addition of C–H bonds,
to unsaturated, high-spin intermediates. These can be seen to
have many common aspects, which can be traced back to the
existence of spin change-induced barriers in the entrance
channels of many of these reactions. However, some ligand
association processes involve very small barriers only, due to
the presence of attractive interactions on the high-spin surface,
so that the MECP lies lower in energy than the reactants.
A particular focus has been placed on the reaction of
[Cp*Ir(PMe3)] with ethylene. The complexities of this process,
in which spin-forbidden ligand association competes with
oxidative addition, led to it being dubbed ‘mysterious’ by the
experimental group investigating it.20 Our identification of the
MECPs between singlet and triplet potential energy surfaces in
this system22 enabled us to propose a satisfactory qualitative
explanation of the observed reactivity pattern for the first
time.
We believe that the spreading awareness of the role and
importance of spin changes in transition metal chemistry, as
well as the availability of robust computational techniques for
characterising the appropriate MECPs, will help to deepen the
level of understanding in this area of mechanistic chemistry.
7 Acknowledgements
RP is grateful to the Conseil Régional de Bourgogne for funding
the purchase of computing equipment, the Université de
Bourgogne through their Computing Resources Centre, and
CINES for a grant of free CPU time. JNH thanks the EPSRC for
support. The authors also thank Dr Vidar Jensen for commu-
nicating unpublished results and for helpful conversations.
8 References
1 P. Gütlich, Y. Garcia and H. A. Goodwin, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2000, 29,
419.
2 R. Poli, Acc. Chem. Res., 1997, 30, 494.
3 D. Schröder, S. Shaik and H. Schwarz, Acc. Chem. Res., 2000, 33, 139
and references therein.
4 M. Filatov, N. Harris and S. Shaik, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 1999, 38,
3510.
5 Details of DFT and other electronic structure methods can be found in
F. Jensen, An Introduction to Computational Chemistry, John Wiley,
1998.
6 E. R. Davidson (Guest Editor), Computational Transition Metal
Chemistry, in Chem. Rev., 2000, 100, issue 2.
7 N. Koga and K. Morokuma, Chem. Phys. Lett., 1985, 119, 371.
8 J. N. Harvey, M. Aschi, H. Schwarz and W. Koch, Theor. Chem. Acc.,
1998, 99, 95 and references therein.
9 (a) For previous reviews, see : J. N. Harvey, R. Poli and K. M. Smith,
Coord. Chem. Rev., 2002, in press (b) J. N. Harvey, in Computational
Organometallic Chemistry, ed. T. R. Cundari, Marcel Dekker, New
York, Basel, 2001.
10 A. Cole, J. C. Fettinger, D. W. Keogh and R. Poli, Inorg. Chim. Acta,
1995, 240, 355.
11 K. M. Smith, R. Poli and J. N. Harvey, New J. Chem., 2000, 24, 77.
12 D. W. Keogh and R. Poli, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1997, 119, 2516.
13 V. Jensen and R. Poli , to be published.
14 J. L. Detrich, O. M. Reinaud, A. L. Rheingold and K. H. Theopold, J.
Am. Chem. Soc., 1995, 117, 11745.
15 (a) R. J. Ryther and E. Weitz, J. Phys. Chem., 1991, 95, 9841; (b) D. L.
Cedeno, E. Weitz and A. Berces, J. Phys. Chem. A, 2001, 105, 3773.
16 J. N. Harvey, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2000, 122, 12401.
17 J. N. Harvey , to be published.
18 J. C. Green, J. N. Harvey and R. Poli, J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans.,
2002, 1861.
19 B. A. Arndtsen, R. G. Bergman, T. A. Mobely and T. H. Peterson, Acc.
Chem. Res., 1995, 28, 154.
20 P. O. Stoutland and R. G. Bergman, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1988, 110,
5732.
21 J. Silvestre, M. J. Calhorda, R. Hoffmann, P. O. Stoutland and R. G.
Bergman, Organometallics, 1986, 5, 1841.
22 K. M. Smith, R. Poli and J. N. Harvey, Chem. Eur. J., 2001, 7, 1679.
23 For a discussion of ab initio studies of methylene, see : C. D. Sherrill,
M. L. Leininger, T. J. Van Huis and H. F. Schaefer, J. Chem. Phys.,
1998, 108, 1040.
24 D. Das and S. L. Whittenburg, J. Mol. Struct. (Theochem), 1999, 492,
175.
25 V. R. Jensen and W. Thiel, Organometallics, 2001, 21, 4852.
26 H. Paulsen, L. Duelund, H. Winkler, H. Toftlund and H. X. Trautwein,
Inorg. Chem., 2001, 40, 2201.
27 M. Reiher, O. Salomon and B. A. Hess, Theor. Chem. Acc., 2001, 107,
48.
28 D. V. Khoroshun, D. G. Musaev, T. Vreven and K. Morokuma,
Organometallics, 2001, 20, 2007.
29 D. M. Ball, C. Buda, A. M. Gillespie, D. P. White and T. R. Cundari,
Inorg. Chem., 2002, 41, 152.
30 J. C. Fettinger, D. W. Keogh, H.-B. Kraatz and R. Poli, Organome-
tallics, 1996, 15, 5489.
8
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2003, 32, 1–8
Downloaded on 16 March 2013
Published on 14 November 2002 on http://pubs.rsc.org | doi:10.1039/B200675H
View Article Online
