element not found

The Journal of Physical Chemistry CVol 116/Issue 19Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
FEATURE ARTICLEMarch 20, 2012
Chemistry of Lewis Acid–Base Pairs on Oxide Surfaces
Horia Metiu*Steeve ChrétienZhenpeng HuBo LiXiaoYing Sun
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
We examine a large number of DFT calculations regarding the chemistry of oxide surfaces and show that their qualitative conclusions can be predicted by using a few rules derived from the Lewis acid–base properties of the species involved. (1) The presence of a Lewis acid on an oxide surface increases substantially the binding energy of a Lewis base. (2) If an oxide has certain properties because it is a Lewis base, these properties can be suppressed by adsorbing a Lewis acid on the surface. (3) The presence of a Lewis base on an oxide surface diminishes the binding energy of another base, as compared to the binding energy on the same surface with no base on it. These rules also hold if the words “acid” and “base” are exchanged. We show that these rules apply to a large number of systems which seem to have no relationship to each other and which are important for catalysis by oxides.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2012 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Acid And Base Chemistry
Binding Energy
Gold
Lewis Acids
Oxides
† Author Present Address
School of Physics, Nankai University, Tianjin 300 071, People’s Republic of China.
‡ Author Present Address
Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMR CAS), Shenyang 100 016, People’s Republic of China.
1 Introduction
Oxides are useful catalysts, and the chemisorption of molecules on oxide surfaces has been the subject of numerous density functional calculations. In this article, we show that the results of many such calculations can be derived from a few rules involving Lewis acid–base pairs. These rules appear to be general and to have predictive power. Moreover, they apply to chemical systems that seem to have no connection to each other.
Since there are numerous definitions of a Lewis acid or base, we specify the definition used here. A molecule whose electron charge increases during a reaction is a Lewis acid; the one that loses electrons is a Lewis base. Whether a molecule is an acid or a base depends on its reaction partner; a molecule can act as an acid with one partner and as a base with another partner. Nevertheless, some molecules have such a strong propensity to be an acid that it is safe to assume that they are acid in their interaction with most partners; the same goes for some molecules that have a strong tendency to be bases.
When it was proposed, (1) this definition was hard to use since it was not possible to determine the electronic charge redistribution during a reaction. Quantum chemistry now provides a variety of methods for determining such charge rearrangements. Among them we favor the one proposed by Bader, (2-4) and we use it throughout this article. In a reaction, the Lewis acid gains Bader charge, and the Lewis base loses it.
In a few instances, we say that A is a Lewis base and B is a Lewis acid if the energy of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of A is larger than that of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of B. The basicity of a molecule seems to be particularly strong when it has a singly occupied molecular orbital (SOMO); such orbitals tend to have higher energy because they do not benefit from the effect of “electron pairing”.
In the rest of this article, we show that the results of a large number of calculations, on a great variety of systems, can be predicted by the following propensity rules.
1.
(a) The coadsorption of a Lewis acid A with a Lewis base B, on an oxide surface S that is neither a Lewis acid nor a Lewis base, results in a very large “attractive” interaction energy between A and B. By this we mean that the energy of coadsorbing A and B is much larger than the adsorption energy of A alone plus the adsorption energy of B alone. Another way to phrase this is to say that the presence of a Lewis acid on a surface enhances substantially the binding energy of a Lewis base (compared to the binding energy when the acid is absent). (b) This rule also applies to the adsorption of a molecule AB which dissociates to form adsorbed A and B. The energy of the dissociative adsorption is largest when the binding sites of A and B are such that A is a Lewis base and B is a Lewis acid. (c) If A is a Lewis base and the adsorbed molecule B has several isomers, then the presence of A will induce B to form (when it binds to the surface) the isomer that is a Lewis acid.
All these statements remain true if one interchanges the words acid and base.
2. If a surface has certain chemical properties because it is a Lewis acid, these properties are modified substantially by adsorbing a Lewis base on the surface, as if the base neutralizes the acid. The same thing happens if the surface is a base and the adsorbate is an acid.
3. The interaction energy between a Lewis acid and a Lewis base, coadsorbed on an oxide surface that is neither an acid nor a base, depends on the strength of the base and of the acid.
4. If an oxide surface is modified to be a Lewis acid, then a molecule that is a Lewis acid adsorbs more weakly on the modified oxide than on the unmodified one. A similar rule is true for bases.
These rules are different manifestations of a strong interaction between a Lewis acid–base pair adsorbed on an oxide surface. Some chemists may not be surprised by this. However, we show here that in the case of oxide surfaces this interaction: (a) is surprisingly strong (of the order of 1 eV or more); (b) takes place through the oxide, as opposed to a bond formation between the acid and the base; (c) is universal (we found no exception); and (d) explains a large number of computational results for systems that seem to have no relationship with each other.
These qualitative rules generalize results of many calculations of the chemical properties of adsorbates on oxide surfaces, by correlating them with the Lewis acid–base properties of the participants. When we say that they are general we mean that calculations show that they work for many different systems, and we see no reason why they should not work for systems that have not been studied yet by DFT. It is however possible that as more examples are examined the rules will have to be amended, qualified, or extended.
Many of the examples of Lewis acid–base pair interactions given here interpret results of calculations already published in the literature or of new calculations performed in our group. The presentation in this article reverses the path used in the discovery of the rules: we postulate the rules and use them to “predict” the results of the calculations. We use this pedagogical device to emphasize our belief that the rules have predictive power.
2 Computational Aspects
We compare here results of many calculations: some are old, and some have not been published before. Some of the older calculations used GGA, which is known to give some artifacts in the electronic structure of the oxides of transition metals or rare-earth metals. The more recent calculations either used (5) GGA+U or showed that, for some oxides (e.g., La2O3), using the Hubbard U correction makes a minor difference in the results. When we use results obtained with GGA, we are careful not to include in the present discussion those aspects that are suspected of being artifacts of the method. For calculations that used GGA+U, we have used only results that are not changed qualitatively by changing the value of U. Recently, Nolan (6-10) and Watson (11, 12) and Sanz (13) have advocated the use of a Hubbard correction for oxygen. Having two adjustable parameters, this method seems to improve the description of doped or reduced oxides. We found, however, that using two Hubbard parameters does not affect the qualitative conclusions reached by using the other DFT methods.
All calculations examined here have been performed on slabs that mimic large surfaces. They used the accepted standards of the field regarding the magnitude of the energy cut off, the thickness of the slabs, and the convergence criteria for geometry and energy optimization. Most calculations used spin-polarized DFT to find the lowest energy spin state.
In this article, we present qualitative rules that predict large energy changes. The magnitude of the energies cited here will depend on the functional used in the DFT calculations and on the value of the U parameter. However, the qualitative rules that we propose are likely to be valid for all functionals because they are based on large energy differences. We assume that, when the functional is changed, large energies will remain large, and the small ones will stay small.
3 Presence of a Lewis Base on a Surface Increases Substantially the Binding Energy of a Lewis Acid
We start by examining the results of calculations in which a Lewis acid is adsorbed on the surface of TiO2(110) on which a Lewis base has been preadsorbed. The bases examined so far are a H atom adsorbed to make a hydroxyl on the bridging oxygen row, (14, 15) an adsorbed alkali atom (Li, or Na, or K), or the Au clusters Au3, Au5, and Au7. (15) Calculations of Bader charges have shown that all these compounds donate electrons when they adsorb on rutile. (16-19) Therefore, they are Lewis bases with respect to the rutile surface. Our rules predict that the presence of any one of these bases will increase the binding energy of a Lewis acid (as compared to the case when no base is present on the surface). The Lewis acids we examine here are a Au atom and an O2 molecule.
The calculated binding energy of a Au atom to a clean, stoichiometric (i.e., no oxygen vacancies) rutile surface is 0.45 eV, and the Bader charge on the adsorbed Au atom is +0.05 electron. (16) When a base is present on the surface, the binding energy of Au to the surface changes (from 0.45 eV on clean TiO2) to a value between 1.2 and 1.37 eV (depending on the base); the charge on the adsorbed Au atom (15) is between −0.35 and −0.47 electron (depending on the base). Note that these are changes in the binding energy of Au to the TiO2 surface (not to the base).
The binding energy of the Au atom to the rutile surface and the Bader charge on it are about the same regardless of which of the above bases is present on the surface. This suggests that it is the electron donation by the base, not its specific chemical nature, that causes this increase in the binding energy. This assumption was tested by performing calculations in which a Au atom is adsorbed on a rutile slab that contains an extra electron but no adsorbed Lewis base. (15) The presence of an additional electron turns the rutile slab into a Lewis base, and according to the rules advocated here this base should bind more strongly the Au atom (a Lewis acid) than the slab with no additional electron. The calculations show that indeed it does. The binding energy of Au on this charged rutile surface is 1.21 eV, and the charge on the adsorbed Au atom is −0.40 electron. These numbers are remarkably close to those obtained when the slab is electrically neutral (i.e., no additional electron in the slab) but has a Lewis base adsorbed on it. To a good approximation, it is the basicity that matters, not the specific chemical.
The Au clusters Au3, Au5, and Au7 have an odd number of electrons, and the presence of an unpaired electron in the SOMO tends to make them Lewis bases with respect to TiO2(110). Calculations show that they donate electrons when they bind to the surface. (16, 17, 20) According to our rules, their presence on the surface should enhance the binding energy of a Au atom to the oxide (not to the Au clusters), and they do. On the other hand, the Au2, Au4, and Au6 clusters are not Lewis bases or acids when they are adsorbed on rutile (16, 17) (they do not exchange electrons with the surface). If the rules we propose here are correct, the presence of these clusters on the surface should have no effect on the adsorption energy of the Au atom to the oxide (not to the Au clusters). Calculations (15) show that indeed this is the case. The effect of the Au clusters with an odd number of electrons on the adsorption energy of a Au atom has nothing to do with the fact that the clusters contain gold; the important feature is that the clusters which affect the binding of the Au atom are Lewis bases, and the ones that have no effect are not.
In the examples discussed above, all bases we studied modify the binding of a Lewis acid which is able to take one electron (i.e., Au) by roughly the same amount. Similarly, all bases change the binding energy of oxygen by the same amount. We do not have enough examples to postulate that this “invariance” in the binding energy of the Lewis acid with the nature of the base is a general rule.
If the observations listed above are explained by the acid–base interaction, similar results should be obtained for other acids with the same bases. Calculations show (15) that this is true when O2 (a Lewis acid) is coadsorbed on TiO2(110) with one of the bases listed above. The binding energy of O2 to rutile is 0.15 eV, and the molecule is unable to gain electron charge from the rutile surface, (15) in spite of the fact that O2 has a large electronegativity; stoichiometric rutile is a poor base. Since DFT does not account for the van der Waals interactions, the magnitude of the binding energy is larger than the calculated one. However, what matters here is that the number is small, which is in agreement with experiment and other calculations. (21-24)
The presence on the surface of any of the bases mentioned above changes the binding energy of oxygen from 0.15 (when no base is present) to ∼1.00 eV. This is the binding energy to the rutile surface, not to the base. The charge on the coadsorbed O2 is ∼ −0.5 electron (instead of zero, when no base is present). In agreement with our rule, the presence of a base on the surface allows oxygen to act as a Lewis acid, and this causes a substantial increase in its binding energy to the surface. The binding energy of O2 is roughly the same for all bases, including a slab with an additional electron and no adsorbate on its surface.
This behavior is not confined to rutile or to the acids and the bases mentioned above. A more interesting and somewhat surprising behavior is observed when a halogen or a halogen hydride is adsorbed on La2O3 or on CeO2.
The reaction 1/2Br2 + La2O3(001) → (Br–La)/La2O3, in which one Br atom binds to three La atoms, is endothermic, (25) and the reaction energy is 0.10 eV. The symbol (Br–La)/La2O3 is used to indicate that the Br atom formed by dissociation binds to La not to O. This Br atom is bonded to the surface, but the state is metastable with respect to the formation of 1/2Br2 in the gas. The Bader charge on the Br atom in the Br–La group is −0.40; this atom is a Lewis acid with respect to La2O3. Br–La is the lowest-energy binding site of a Br atom on La2O3.
On the basis of what we just said about the adsorption of one Br atom, one is tempted to guess that the dissociative adsorption of Br2 to form two adsorbed Br atoms ought to be even more endothermic than the adsorption of one Br atom and that both Br atoms formed by dissociation will form a Br–La complex. If we assume that there is no interaction between the two Br atoms formed by the dissociation of Br2, the dissociative adsorption energy ought to be 0.2 eV.
However, according to our rules, the dissociative adsorption energy of Br2 (to form two adsorbed Br atoms) will benefit substantially if one atom binds to a surface site on which it is a Lewis acid and the other binds to a site where it is a Lewis base. Calculations show (25) that this is what happens. The lowest-energy state for the dissociative adsorption of Br2 is the one in which one Br atoms binds to La (to form the Br–La complex) and the other Br atom binds to an oxygen atom (to form a Br–O group). The energy of the reaction Br2 + La2O3 → (Br–La, Br–O)/La2O3 is −0.40 eV (not the 0.2 eV estimated above by assuming that the two Br atoms do not interact). (Br–La, Br–O)/La2O3 represents a La2O3 surface on which one Br atom is bonded to La and the other is bonded to O. The Bader charge on the Br atom in the Br–La group is −0.71 electron, and this atom is a strong acid. The Bader charge on the Br atom in the Br–O group is 0.21 electron, and this atom is a base. Having a Br atom in the acid Br–La group “directs” the second Br atom to bind to the basic site Br–O. The resulting acid–base interaction lowers substantially the energy of dissociative adsorption of Br2.
We have observed similar behavior when Br2 or Cl2 dissociates on CeO2(111). (26) We discuss here only the results obtained for Br2 since those for Cl2 are similar. A Br atom can adsorb on ceria either on an O atom, to form a compound denoted (Br–O)/CeO2(111), or on a Ce atom, to form the compound denoted (Br–Ce)/CeO2(111). The reaction 1/2Br2 + CeO2(111) → (Br–O)/CeO2(111), in which one Br atom is adsorbed on the surface, is endothermic, and its energy is +0.23 eV;the adsorbed Br atom in (Br–O)/CeO2(111) loses +0.26 electron when it makes the Br–O bond; this Br atom is a Lewis base with respect to CeO2. The reaction 1/2Br2 + CeO2(111) → (Br–Ce)/CeO2(111), to form one Br atom adsorbed on a Ce site, is also endothermic, and the reaction energy is +0.19 eV; this Br atom gains 0.28 electron when it binds to Ce, and it is a Lewis acid. Note that no matter where a single Br atom binds the reaction is uphill. Naively, one would think that if the binding of one Br atom is exothermic the binding of two of them would be even more so. However, one of our rules predicts that the dissociative adsorption of Br2 should be exothermic if one Br atom binds to O and the other to Ce because this will form a Lewis acid–base pair on the surface; this should stabilize the dissociative adsorption. Indeed, it does: the energy of the dissociative adsorption of Br2, to form (Br–O, Br–Ce)/CeO2(111), is −0.27 eV. The energy to dissociate Br2 and form two Br–O groups or two Br–Ce groups is much higher, and it is positive (a metastable state).
We can also use our rules to predict qualitatively the behavior of HCl dissociation on CeO2(111). The H atom will bind to an oxygen atom since making a hydroxyl is most often preferred to making a hydride. Where will the Cl atom bind to provide the most stable structure when HCl dissociates? Our rule predicts that because H binding to an oxygen atom on the surface of an oxide is a base the presence of the hydroxyl will induce the Cl atom to function as an acid and stabilize the dissociation of HCl by an acid–base interaction. Indeed, we find that formation of (H–O, Cl–Ce)/CeO2(111) (acid–base pair) is more exothermic than the formation of (H–O, Cl–O)/CeO2(111) (base–base pair) by 0.85 eV. When the Cl atom is alone on the surface and it binds to a Ce atom, it has a Bader charge of −0.33 electron. However, when it is part of (H–O, Cl–Ce)/CeO2(111), the Cl in the Cl–Ce group acts as a strong Lewis acid and has a Bader charge of −0.64 electron. Pairing it with H (a Lewis base) on the surface increases the charge on the Cl (the Lewis acid) by 0.31 electron and the dissociative adsorption energy by a substantial amount. A very similar behavior is seen (25) for the dissociative chemisorption of HBr on La2O3.
Ultrathin films of oxides supported on metals (27-29) provide another example in which manipulating the Lewis acid–base properties of a system changes the chemistry of adsorbed species. Pacchioni et al. (30) predicted that Au atoms adsorbed on an ultrathin MgO film on Ag(100) will draw charge from the Ag substrate. In this process, the metallic Ag works as a base, and the Au atom is an acid. This prediction was confirmed by experiments in Freund’s group. (31) The ability of the metal support to act as a base depends on its work function. When the work function is smaller, the LUMO of the metal is higher, and the metal is a stronger base. Therefore, our rules predict that the binding energy of a Au atom or an O2 molecule (which are both Lewis acids) to an ultrathin MgO layer supported on a metal should increase as the work function of the metal decreases. Calculations by Hellman et al. (32, 33) show that this is indeed the case. The binding energy of oxygen to a MgO film supported on Ag(100) is 0.82 eV, and it is 0.2 eV for MgO. (32) The binding energy of a Au atom on an ultrathin film of MgO supported on Mo, Ag, Pd, Au, or Pt is higher than on MgO, and it increases as the work function decreases (i.e., base strength increases). (33)
4 Effect of the Acid–Base Strength
It is possible to state that a Lewis acid (or base) is stronger than another Lewis acid (or base), and there are many methods for establishing acidity (basicity) scales. Here we use the term strength in a qualitative and limited sense. Rather than try to define it precisely, we clarify it by the examples given below.
One definition of a Lewis acid or base makes use of orbital energies. Qualitatively we can say that A is a stronger Lewis acid than B if the LUMO of A has lower energy than that of B. Similarly, A is a stronger base than B if the HOMO of A has higher energy than that of B. A deficiency of this definition is that HOMO and LUMO energies are not observable quantities (only the excitation energies are), but numerous examples have shown that orbital energies are useful for predicting trends in chemical behavior. (34, 35)
One difference between Au and O2 is that O2 has two unpaired electrons, located in two different SOMOs, while the Au atom has only one. It is therefore qualitatively reasonable to say that O2 is a stronger acid than Au since it can use two orbitals for “housing” electrons. How will Au and O2 behave if they are adsorbed on oxide surfaces having different base strength?
We have already mentioned that the binding energies of Au and O2 to TiO2(110) are substantially increased if a hydroxyl (a Lewis base) is present on the surface. What happens if we make the surface a stronger base by having two hydroxyls per supercell, next to each other, on the bridging-oxygen row? It turns out that the binding energy of Au to the surface with two hydroxyls is the same as that obtained when only one hydroxyl is present. (15) Au is a weak acid, and it behaves as if it is only able to make use of one electron; the existence of an additional electron, provided by the second OH, makes no difference. One hydroxyl already “neutralizes” the acidity of Au; increasing the basicity (by adding an extra hydroxyl) no longer affects the behavior of Au. In contrast, adding a second hydroxyl changes the binding energy of oxygen from 0.93 eV (when coadsorbed with one hydroxyl) to 1.94 eV (when coadsorbed with two hydroxyls). The Bader charge on O2 changes from −0.47 electron (for one hydroxyl) to −0.91 electron (for two hydroxyls). Making the surface more basic increases the binding energy of a strong acid.
A similar behavior is observed if we add electrons to the rutile slab to turn it into a base. The binding energy of Au is the same whether we add one electron or two electrons, but the binding energy and the Bader charge of O2 depend on the number of electrons: adding two electrons has about the same effect as having two hydroxyls. Again, roughly speaking, the effect of the base depends on its ability to donate electrons and not on other chemical details.
A similar example is provided by calculations regarding the effect of two Au strips present on the rutile surface and used as Lewis bases. (15) One strip has nine atoms in the supercell (and is denoted here Au9), while the other has ten (Au10). We emphasize that Au9 and Au10 are not gold clusters but infinite strips of Au along one lattice vector of the surface. The Au10 strip is obtained from Au9 by adding one Au atom on top of the Au9 strip. This addition does not cause a substantial change in the structure of the Au atoms originally in the Au9 strip, but the chemical properties of Au10 are very different from those of Au9. The question is how these strips affect the binding of a Au atom or of an O2 molecule to the rutile surface (not to the strip but to the oxide surface not covered by the strip). Both strips affect equally the binding of a Au atom to the rutile surface: the binding energies are 1.12 eV (on Au9) and 1.18 eV (on Au10). Given the errors in DFT, these numbers should be considered equal. The binding energy of O2 changes dramatically, from 1.11 eV for Au9 to 1.96 eV for Au10. Adding one Au atom on top of Au9 makes it a stronger Lewis base, but this change can be “detected” only by coadsorbing O2, which is a stronger acid than Au. An examination of the density of states shows that the HOMO of Au10 has substantially higher energy than the HOMO of Au9, and this explains why Au10 is a stronger base than Au9. Surprisingly, the difference in the binding energy of O2 on the two surfaces (one with Au9 and the other with Au10) is roughly equal to the difference in the HOMO energies of Au9 and Au10. It is prudent to think of this equality as a coincidence rather than a rule.
It is, however, reasonable to generalize these two observations. The acidity of Au is “neutralized” readily, and increasing the strength of the base beyond a certain value has no effect on the adsorption energy of Au. On the other hand, O2, which is a stronger acid, is not neutralized as readily, and its binding energy can be increased by increasing the strength of the base.
We have already mentioned that the binding energy of Au on an ultrathin MgO film supported on a metal increases as the work function of the metal decreases. (33) A smaller work function means a higher HOMO energy and hence a stronger basicity. Again, increasing the strength of the base results in a larger binding energy for the acid.
5 Structural Effects of Pairing a Lewis Acid with a Lewis Base
We have already mentioned that the lowest-energy Au4 cluster does not exchange electrons with rutile when it is adsorbed on its surface. However, Au4 has many structural isomers, (15) which differ from each other through the arrangement of the Au atoms in the cluster and/or through their location on the surface. One of them, which we denote Au4*, is less stable than Au4: the energy of the rutile with Au4* on it is 0.53 eV higher than the energy of rutile with Au4 adsorbed on it. Bader charge calculations show that Au4* is a Lewis base with respect to rutile (i.e., it transfers electrons to the surface). Given the big difference between the energies of these two adsorbed isomers, practically no Au4* will be present on the surface if the isomers of Au4 are in thermodynamic equilibrium.
Calculations (15) show that the binding energy of O2 to the rutile surface (not to the Au cluster) is not affected by the preadsorption of Au4 on the surface. This is consistent with our rules: Au4 is not a Lewis base, so it will not affect the binding of a Lewis acid (the O2). On the other hand, our rules suggest that adsorbed O2 (a Lewis acid) would interact strongly with Au4* (a Lewis base). Calculations show that this is the case: the energy of the rutile slab on which O2 is coadsorbed with Au4* is lower by 0.67 eV than that of the rutile slab on which O2 is coadsorbed with Au4. The presence of the Lewis acid (i.e., O2) stabilizes that Au cluster that is a Lewis base (namely Au4*). In the absence of oxygen, the most stable four-atom Au cluster on the surface is Au4, but when O2 is adsorbed on the rutile surface, the most stable cluster is Au4*. The presence of the Lewis acid on the surface forces the four-atom Au cluster to change its structure to become a Lewis base. The same behavior has been observed for the Au6 clusters coadsorbed with O2.
In an experiment in which a surface covered with four-atom Au clusters is exposed to oxygen, the situation is more complicated because O2 reacts with small Au clusters. (36)
The rules proposed here can be applied to the general case when an adsorbed molecule has two isomers A and B whose binding energy to an oxide surface does not differ by a very large amount (no more than ∼0.4 eV). If isomer A is a Lewis acid, coadsorption with a Lewis base will force the molecule to adopt the structure A. If the isomer B is a Lewis base, coadsorption with a Lewis acid will force the molecule to have the structure B.
6 Oxygen Vacancies as Lewis Bases
Removing an oxygen atom from an oxide surface (to make an oxygen vacancy) leaves behind two unpaired electrons. The properties of the oxygen vacancies and the fate of the unpaired electrons left behind have been the subject of many calculations (12, 19, 24, 37-62) and some experiments. (62-64) Oxygen vacancies are of interest because the energy of vacancy formation is an indirect measure of the ability of the oxide to work as an oxidant in catalytic oxidation taking place by a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. (65-67)
There are differences in the behavior of oxygen vacancies depending on whether the oxide is reducible or not. For the purpose of the present work, we say that the oxide A is reducible when the cation in it is able to form more than one stable oxide. For example, CeO2 and TiO2 are reducible because Ce2O3 and Ti2O3 are stable; MgO or CaO are irreducible.
Because the formation of an oxygen vacancy produces two unpaired electrons, a surface with an oxygen vacancy on it is a Lewis base. It will therefore tend, according to our rules, to interact strongly with a Lewis acid. This means that if a Lewis acid is present on the surface of an oxide the energy of making an oxygen vacancy is considerably lowered by the acid–base interaction. Another way to say this is that the presence of oxygen vacancies on the surface increases the binding energy of a Lewis acid (to the site vacated by the oxygen or to another site on the surface).
Given the fact that the vacancy site in the surface of an irreducible oxide is electron-rich, it is not a surprise that electrophilic compounds such as O2, X2 (X is a halogen), or a Au atom (all these are Lewis acids) will bind readily to the site vacated by oxygen. (24, 68, 69) More interesting is the fact that the presence of an oxygen vacancy affects the binding energy of a Lewis acid away from the vacancy site. One example is provided by a TiO2(110) surface that has an oxygen vacancy in the bridging oxygen row. The presence of the vacancy increases the binding energy of a Au atom (to the surface, not to the vacancy) to ∼1.2 eV as compared to 0.45 eV on the surface without vacancy. This effect is present whether the oxygen vacancy is in the first or the second oxygen layer.
It is striking that the binding energy of O2 to the rutile surface having an oxygen vacancy is 1.87 eV, and the Bader charge is 0.87 electron; the binding energy of O2 to a rutile slab having two electrons is 2.10 eV, and the Bader charge is 0.95 electron; and the binding energy of O2 to a rutile slab having two hydroxyls on the bridging oxygen row is 1.94 eV, and the Bader charge is 0.91 electron. To a rough approximation, these three basic surfaces have the same effect because they all provide two electrons to the O2 acid.
An interesting situation occurs in the case of a Cl vacancy in LaOCl. (70) Removing a Cl atom from the surface layer leaves behind one unpaired electron (not two as in the case of an oxygen vacancy). Nevertheless, the surface with a missing Cl atom is a strong base, and because of this it adsorbs O2(a strong Lewis acid) readily, even on sites away from the vacancy. If the surface does not have a Cl vacancy, it will not adsorb O2. This is similar to the behavior of an oxygen vacancy except that the oxygen vacancy is a stronger base since it has two electrons to donate.
It is possible to create a Cl vacancy on LaOCl by a spillover process: the Cl atom is removed from its normal lattice site, and it is adsorbed on the surface, rather than being taken away in the gas (as 1/2Cl2). This process is endoergic, but on some of the faces of LaOCl the energy required is small: for example, the spillover energy for LaOCl(110) is 0.10 eV; the largest spillover energy is ∼2 eV, for LaOCl(001). In contrast, the energy to make a Cl vacancy and form 1/2Cl2 in gas is between 2.76 and 4.23 eV, depending on the crystal face. It is clear that it is easier to make Cl vacancies by spillover than by removing Cl to form 1/2 Cl2 in the gas. The reason for this is the Lewis acid–base interaction. The adsorbed Cl atom, formed by spillover, is a Lewis acid, and the Cl vacancy is a Lewis base. According to the rules proposed here, forming this Lewis acid–base pair should benefit from an acid–base interaction: the acid and the base neutralize each other, and this leads to a gain in energy. This is why it requires much less energy to make a vacancy by spillover than by removing Cl from the surface to form 1/2Cl2 in the gas. A consequence of this neutralization is that the Cl vacancy made by spillover is no longer a base; the electron left behind in the Cl vacancy (the base) is used by the spilled Cl atom to bind to the surface. According to our rules, the surface formed by a Cl spillover is not a base (it has been neutralized by the spilled Cl atom), and it should adsorb O2 (a Lewis acid) weakly. Calculations show that this is the case. In addition, our rules predict that if the Cl vacancy is made by removing the Cl atom in the gas, then the defective surface is a base and will adsorb O2 strongly (on the vacancy site or on another site on the surface). Calculations show that this is indeed the case.
7 Low-Valence Dopants Turn the Oxide Surface into a Lewis Acid
There is much work, both experimental (71) and computational, (6, 8-10, 38, 46, 47, 52, 54, 72-85) that explores the possibility that the catalytic activity of an oxide can be improved by substitutional doping (a small fraction of the cations of the oxide are replaced with different cations). In this section, we point out that one can turn an oxide surface into a Lewis acid if one substitutes the cation of the host oxide with a lower-valence cation (46, 77, 86, 87) (which we call a low-valence dopant (LVD)). For example, we could replace a La atom in La2O3 with a Mg atom or a Zn atom. Similarly, a cerium atom in CeO2 can be replaced with a La or a Y atom, etc. When making such a substitution, we create an electron “deficit” in the oxide. In the first example, the La atom being replaced provided (formally) three electrons to the oxide, and its replacement (Mg or Zn) provides only two. The substitution creates a “need” for an extra electron, and this turns the doped surface into a Lewis acid.
The notion that the oxide doped with a LVD is a Lewis acid is supported by the analysis of the density of states. It has been found (46, 77, 86, 87) that doping creates a hole in the oxide. The LUMO is shifted, by doping, from the bottom of the valence band to a state of lower energy. Therefore, doping increases the ability of the oxide to accept electrons, making the system a stronger acid. According to our rules, a base binds substantially more strongly to the surface of the doped oxide than to the surface of the undoped one.
The rule that a Lewis base binds more strongly to the surface of an oxide doped with a LVD works whether the oxide is reducible or not. However, the details of the mechanism of charge exchange between the acid and the base can be different on reducible oxides than on the irreducible ones. The reducible oxides are more complicated because their cations are Lewis acids (see Section 9): in the presence of a base they can be reduced from Ce4+ to Ce3+ or from Ti4+ to Ti3+. Therefore, a reducible oxide doped with a LVD has two acidic sites: the hole created by the presence of the LVD and the reducible cation (e.g., Ce4+ or Ti4+). When we adsorb a base on such a surface, the two acids compete for the electron donated by the base. It is not clear a priori whether the electron donated by the base fills the hole or reduces the cation. In an irreducible oxide doped with a LVD, the base always fills the hole since the cations cannot be reduced.
(1) Since making an oxygen vacancy is equivalent to turning the surface of the oxide into a Lewis base, our rules predict that making an oxygen vacancy, which is a base, requires substantially less energy on an oxide doped with a LVD than on the undoped oxide. This happens because the LVD turns the surface into a Lewis acid, and the formation of the vacancy creates a Lewis base. The energy of making a vacancy is lowered by the large Lewis acid–base pair interaction. This “prediction” has been verified, without exception, in all calculations we are aware of, (9, 38, 46, 52, 72, 73, 80, 87-91) and we give here only a few examples to illustrate the magnitude of the changes of energy of vacancy formation caused by the acid–base interaction. The energy of the reaction Ox → Oxv + 1/2O2(g) (here Ox is an oxide and Oxv is the same oxide with an oxygen vacancy in the top layer of the supercell) is defined here as the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation. Making a vacancy on the surface of La2O3(001) requires 6.44 eV. (46) Doping with Cu reduces this number to 0.52 eV, doping with Zn to 2.01 eV, and doping with Mg to 2.59 eV. We have observed similar effects when doping CaO or ZnO with alkali (79) or TiO2or CeO2 with Au. (73, 80) In all cases that have been examined, (8, 9, 25, 38, 46, 47, 52, 54, 72-85) the reduction in the vacancy formation energy, due to the presence of the dopant, is very large.
This effect is relevant to oxidation, or oxidative dehydrogenation reactions catalyzed by oxides, that proceeds through the Mars–van Krevelen (MvK) mechanism. (65-67) In this mechanism, the reductant is oxidized by the oxygen atoms from the surface of the oxide (not by adsorbed oxygen). The easier it is to make a vacancy, the better oxidant the surface is. (73, 80) This implies that doping an oxide surface with a LVD makes it a better oxidant. This is not to say that the best oxidant is the best oxidation catalyst. In the MvK mechanism, the gas-phase oxygen reoxidizes the surface reduced by the reactant (e.g., CO or CH4). (73, 80) If the oxygen is too easy to remove, it is difficult to put it back. In designing an oxidation catalyst, by doping an oxide, one should aim for the middle ground: the dopant should make it easy to remove an oxygen atom, but not too easy. We call this a “moderation principle”.
(2) If doping an oxide with a LVD turns it into a Lewis acid, then doping should increase substantially the binding energy of any Lewis base, not just the formation of an oxygen vacancy. Calculations show that this is indeed the case. (73, 77, 80, 86) This is true of CO adsorption, which is a Lewis base, whose binding energy to the oxygen atom next to a LVD is substantially larger than the binding energy to the undoped oxide. (54, 72-74, 80, 88, 92, 93) The binding of a H atom (a Lewis base) provides another example. (77, 86, 94) The energy of the reaction 1/2H2 + Ox → H/Ox (here H/Ox is the oxide with a H adsorbed to make a hydroxyl) is 1.53 eV if Ox = La2O3 and −2.35 eV if Ox = MgLa2O3; it is −1.24 eV if Ox = CeO2 and −2.94 eV if Ox = LaCeO2 (here MgLa2O3 is La2O3 doped with Mg, and LaCeO2 has a similar meaning). This large shift in the binding energy has been observed for all surfaces doped with LVDs for which we have calculations. A very similar shift is observed for the energy of the reaction CH3(g) + Ox → CH3/Ox since CH3 is a Lewis base. The energy of the reaction is −4.56 eV if Ox is LaCeO2(111) and −2.71 eV if Ox is CeO2; it is 0.56 eV if Ox = La2O3 and −3.26 eV if Ox = MgLa2O3(001).
It is interesting to see how doping with a LVD affects the reaction CH4(g) + Ox → (H–O, CH3–O)/Ox, which is the dissociative adsorption of methane to form a hydroxyl and a methoxy group on the surface. CH3 and H are both Lewis bases. The dissociative adsorption energy is −1.31 eV if Ox = CeO2(111) and −2.93 eV if Ox = LaCeO2(111). The La-doped ceria surface is a Lewis acid, and doping does help the dissociation of CH4 because the reaction creates two Lewis bases (H and CH3). However, the change in the adsorption energy caused by doping with the LVD is not as large as one would expect from knowing the binding energy of H alone and of CH3 alone (which are very large). This happens because one of the bases neutralizes the acidity of the surface, and the second base no longer benefits from a Lewis acid–base interaction. (77, 86)
The calculations show that increasing the Lewis acidity of an oxide surface, by doping an oxide with a LVD, increases the energy of the dissociative adsorption of methane (38, 47, 78, 86) and lowers the activation energy (38, 47, 78) for breaking the C–H bond. This is important because breaking this bond is the rate-limiting step for methane activation, a process that is becoming more important due to recent changes in the technology of methane extraction, which dramatically increased the supply of natural gas and caused its price to collapse. Converting methane to high value chemicals has become a priority for the chemical industry.
The chemistry of the reducible oxides doped with LVDs is complicated by the fact that the cations are acidic and the dopant-induced acidity is additional to that already present in the oxide. If the oxide is reducible, a base binds strongly to the surface and donates electronic charge to fill the hole created by the LVD. In an irreducible oxide, the electron charge donated by the base may either fill the hole or reduce the cation. Several of Nolan’s papers have examined how these two mechanisms compete. (6, 8, 9, 52, 72) The rule we propose here, that the acidity of the surface enhances the binding energy of a base, is valid regardless of the details of the mechanism of charge exchange.
8 Chemical Compensation Effect Is Equivalent to the Neutralization of an Acid by a Base
In a previous work, (77) we have proposed a chemical compensation rule, which works as follows. An oxide surface doped with a LVD lowers the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation, increases the binding energy of H and CH3 to surface oxygen, and makes the dissociative adsorption of CH4 (with H and CH3bonded to surface oxygen) more exothermic than on the undoped oxide. The effect of the dopant on the energy of these processes is very substantial, of the order of several electronvolts.
According to the rule proposed here, we can neutralize the effect of a Lewis acid by adsorbing on the surface a Lewis base. Calculations show (77) that such neutralization takes place and has a large effect on the chemistry of the surface. Consider, as an example, what happens when we adsorb a H atom (a base) on La-doped CeO2 (an acid) to form the system we denote H/LaCeO2. The energy to make an oxygen vacancy is 3.00 eV on CeO2(111), 1.36 eV on LaCeO2, and 2.99 eV on H/LaCeO2(111). The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation on H/LaCeO2 is essentially the same as that on CeO2; the presence of the adsorbed hydrogen cancels the effect of the La dopant. Similar behavior was found for Mg-doped La2O3 or CaO doped with alkali. However, the complete compensation observed in the case of H/LaCeO2 is an exception. For example, the energy of oxygen vacancy formation is 5.77 eV on CaO(001), 3.13 eV on NaCaO(001), and 5.33 eV on H/NaCaO(001). The compensation does not return the energy of vacancy formation exactly to the value on the undoped oxide.
If this compensation effect is caused by the acid–base interaction, it should be observed for other bases besides the hydroxyl formed by adsorbing H. This is indeed the case: the adsorption of CH3, instead of H, has the same effect. Moreover, if we do not adsorb a Lewis base but put instead an extra electron in the slab, we observe the same compensation (77) of the acidity of the doped surface.
9 Reducible Oxides Are Weak Lewis Acids
Many experiments with ceria or titania have shown (14, 64, 95-103) that, unless special precautions are taken, Ce3+ and Ti3+ are present in TiO2 and CeO2. Something always reduces some of the Ce4+ or Ti4+ cations. Moreover, it was observed that the formation of oxygen vacancies or the presence of hydroxyls on the surface increases the number of the reduced cations. Because the vacancies and the hydroxyls are Lewis bases, this observation suggests that the cations in these two oxides act as Lewis acids. According to our rules, this means that the adsorption of a base on the surface is facilitated (i.e., the binding energy is larger) by the acidity of the cations in the oxide.
Recent calculations have helped clarify the interaction between oxygen vacancies and acidic properties of the reducible cations in ceria (6, 12, 58, 104) and rutile. (40, 105) These calculations have shown that the two unpaired electrons created when an oxygen atom is removed (to create an oxygen vacancy) become localized on two Ce or two Ti atoms, reducing them from a formal charge of 4+ to 3+. The reduction of the cations is accompanied by a displacement of the oxygen atoms from their normal position (i.e., in the stoichiometric oxide) to form a polaron. According to our rules, the formation of an oxygen vacancy, which is a Lewis base, must be aided by the Lewis acidity of the cations being reduced by the unpaired electrons. The magnitude of the acid–base interaction (the vacancy is the base, and the cations are the acid) depends on the location of the polarons and can be as large as 1 eV. (40, 105) Thus, the formation of a base on the surface (i.e., an oxygen vacancy) is facilitated by the acidic character of the cations in the oxide.
The fact that Ce ions are Lewis acids has interesting consequences when ceria is doped with a high-valence dopant (HVD). A HVD is a dopant that has a higher valence than the cation it substitutes. For example, pentavalent Ta is a HVD when it dopes ceria. A HVD is a Lewis base because it has an excess of valence electrons, when compared to the cation it substitutes. According to our rules, we expect that the HVD is affected strongly when it dopes a reducible oxide. Such an influence has been observed in calculations. (87) If CeO2 is doped with Nb or Ta, these pentavalent dopants lose an electron, which fills an f-orbital localized on a Ce ion. The formal valence of this Ce ion is 3+. Similarly, the hexavalent dopants W or Mo lose two electrons to reduce two cerium ions. The energy of these systems is lower than the energy that would be obtained if the formation of Ce3+ was prevented.
This acid–base neutralization has an interesting consequence. Doping ceria with Mo, W, Ta, Nb, Ru, Pt, or Zr has roughly the same effect on the energy of oxygen vacancy formation. (87) This is unexpected since the Zr, Ta, and Nb form very stable oxides, and one would think that they would make strong bonds with the neighboring oxygen atoms in the doped ceria. Moreover, Ru and Pt oxides are much less stable than ceria, and one would expect that they would bind the neighboring oxygen atoms more weakly than Zr, Ta, or Nb. This is not what is observed: the acid–base neutralization process mentioned above makes all dopants tetravalent, and because of this, all these dopants have a similar effect on the neighboring oxygen atoms.
Further evidence for the acidity of the reducible oxides is provided by calculations that show that a Cu atom (106) or a Au atom (107) adsorbed on ceria acts as a base which donates an electron to reduce one cerium cation.
It is important to note that to capture the acid behavior of reducible oxides it is important to use GGA+U. The ability of an adsorbed atom to function as a Lewis base and reduce a cation in the oxide is predicated on the ability of the functional to create states localized on the cation.
10 High-Valence Dopants Are Lewis Bases
High-valence dopants in an irreducible oxide have a different behavior than in a reducible one. To illustrate the difference, we contrast the effect of Ta dopant in ZrO2 and in CeO2. In ceria, a Ta dopant donates an electron (87) to the oxide to reduce a Ce4+ to Ce3+. Such reduction does not occur when Ta dopes ZrO2 since Zr2O3 does not exist, and there is no driving force to create Zr3+. When it replaces a Zr atom in ZrO2, a Ta atom can use only four of its five valence electrons. The “unused” electron stays on the Ta dopant, turning it into a strong Lewis base. We have found this to be true for many HVDs in the irreducible oxides CaO, La2O3, MgO, ZnO, and NiO.
According to our rules, a HVD is a Lewis base, and its presence will make it more difficult to remove an oxygen atom from the surface. Making an oxygen vacancy creates a base on a surface that is already a base (the oxide doped with HVD), and this requires more energy than making the same base (the vacancy) on the undoped oxide (which is neither an acid nor a base). Calculations show that this effect is very small on oxides that bind the oxygen very strongly (e.g., CaO, MgO, or La2O3), but it is substantial on less stable oxides such as ZnO (79) or NiO. The energy of making an oxygen vacancy in NiO(011) is 3.28 eV, and it is 4.13 eV for Nb-doped NiO, 4.25 eV for Ti-doped NiO, and 4.6 eV for Al-doped NiO. A similar increase in the oxygen vacancy formation energy occurs for all HVDs in ZnO. (79) By strengthening the bond of the oxygen atoms to the oxide, these dopants hinder oxidation by a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism.
We are interested in doped oxides because of their potential of being good catalysts for oxidation reactions. Under catalytic conditions, the doped oxide will be in contact with gas-phase oxygen. Because the HDV is a Lewis base, our rules indicate that the dopant will adsorb strongly Lewis acids such as O2. It is therefore necessary to examine the chemical properties of this system. We denote the group formed by O2 adsorption on the dopant by DO2 where D is the dopant. Similarly, we use DO for the dopant with an oxygen atom (captured from the gas, not from the oxide) bound to it.
We anticipate that oxides with a DO2 or a DO dopant will fall into two groups. (1) If the dopant is not a very strong base, it adsorbs O2 (or X2), but it does not manage to neutralize its acidity completely. Because of this, the adsorbed O2 is capable of reacting with Lewis bases. (2) If the dopant is a very strong base, it neutralized the (Lewis acid) O2 completely, so it will no longer react with Lewis bases. In this case, it is profitable to think that DO2 is a substitutional dopant. Since the O2 ties down the “extra electrons” in the dopant, the DO2 behaves as if it is a LVD; the surface becomes acidic, with the attendant change in surface chemistry.
We discuss these limiting cases separately.
10.1 HVDs Adsorb Oxygen and Activate It
If the HVD is a weak base, it will adsorb O2, but it will not neutralize completely its acidity. Therefore, O2 will react readily with bases such as CO, H, or CH3. This “prediction” has been confirmed by several calculations. If ZnO is doped with Ti (or Al), the oxygen molecule adsorbs on the dopant. (76) The Bader charge on O2 increases, and the bond length of the adsorbed molecule is larger than that of the gas-phase molecule. The chemical properties of this adsorbed species are closer to those of O2– than to those of O2. DFT calculations (76) show that the O2 adsorbed on the HVD reacts readily with CO, initiating a sequence of reactions that result in the CO oxidation to CO2. This mechanism is the antipode of the Mars–van Krevelen mechanism: the oxygen in the oxidized species comes from the adsorbed molecule not from the surface of the oxide. This has been confirmed by C16O oxidation experiments, (76) catalyzed by Ti-doped ZnO, which used gaseous 18O2 and produced C18O16O.
This mechanism is also active for Zr-doped CaO(001) and La-doped CaO(001), which adsorb O2 from the gas phase with the adsorption energy of −2.67 and −2.66 eV, respectively. The binding energy is so large because of the acid–base stabilization proposed here. The bond length of O2 chemisorbed on the Zr dopant is 1.35 Å, while the bond length of the gas phase O2 is 1.20 Å; this suggests the formation of a chemically active, negatively charged O2 species. Methane reacts with the adsorbed O2 to form Zr–O–H and Zr–O–CH3; the two oxygen atoms present in these species are from the O2 chemisorbed on Zr (Figure 1). The energy of this dissociative adsorption reaction is −0.84 eV. One can understand this behavior in terms of the acid–base properties of the system. The dopant is not a strong enough base to neutralize completely the O2 acid. Therefore, the O2 in the DO2 group is still sufficiently acid to bind well the basic fragments H and CH3. This additional binding energy in the final state helps lower the energy of the dissociative adsorption of CH4.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Side view of the structure formed by the dissociative adsorption of methane on O2 adsorbed on Zr-doped CaO(001). The dissociation fragments bind to the oxygen atoms of the O2 molecule adsorbed on Zr. Ca is green; oxygen is red; Zr is blue; C is gray; and H is white. The dissociation is exothermic, and the reaction energy is −0.84 eV. (b) Structure in (a) seen from above.
Since a HVD is a Lewis base, it should react readily with other Lewis acids, besides O2. We found that to be the case for Br2 adsorption on Zr-doped La2O3(001). The gas-phase Br2(a Lewis acid) adsorbs and dissociates on Zr (a Lewis base), and the reaction energy is −2.67 eV. This is much larger than the adsorption of Br2 on La2O3 (which is neither acid nor base) or on Mg-doped La2O3 (which is acid). Both Br atoms gain a large Bader charge, 0.68 electron and 0.49 electron, respectively, indicating that the adsorption is an acid–base reaction.
10.2 HVD Adsorbs Oxygen and Becomes a Different Dopant
The adsorption of O2 on the dopant ties down some of the electrons that made the dopant a base. How is the oxide interaction with the dopant modified when the DO2 group is formed? To explore this question, it is simplest to consider that O2 adsorption changed the dopant from D to DO2. Since the oxygen uses some of the “extra electrons” in D, DO2 has fewer electrons to affect the host oxide than D. How does this affect surface chemistry?
This question was posed in an article (108) that examined how rutile TiO2(110) doped with V, Cr, Mo, W, or Mn is modified by the presence of gas-phase oxygen. A thermodynamic equilibrium calculation showed that, at the oxygen pressure and surface temperatures relevant to catalysis, these dopants (except Mn) will have an oxygen atom adsorbed on them. Therefore, if oxygen is present in the gas, the dopants are Mn, CrO, MoO, WO, or VO. This is not surprising. In its most stable oxide, Mn is tetravalent, and one can conjecture that when it replaces another tetravalent cation (Ti in the case of TiO2) the Mn is neither an acid nor a base. Therefore, it is unlikely to bind O strongly. Since V is pentavalent and W and Mo are hexavalent, they will act as bases and will bind oxygen well. In the case of Cr, there is some ambiguity: CrO3, CrO, and Cr2O3 have roughly the same stability, and it is difficult to predict a priori whether Cr is an acid or a base when it replaces a Ti atom in TiO2.
To test what kind of dopant DO is (D = Cr, V, W, Mo), Kim et al. (108) calculated the energy ΔEv for making an oxygen vacancy in the surface of the oxide near the dopant. If the dopants are V, Cr, Mo, or W, the value of ΔEv is 3.37, 2.67, 3.49, or 3.61 eV, respectively. All “naked” dopants act as HVDs (they increase the energy of vacancy formation) except Cr which acts more like a low-valence dopant. The behavior of the MO dopants is markedly different. The values of ΔEv for the rutile doped with VO, CrO, MoO, and WO are 1.53, 1.73, 1.71, and 1.97 eV, respectively, which is a substantial decrease as compared to the surface doped with V, Cr, Mo, or W or with the undoped surface. All these dopants behave like LVDs, that is, like Lewis acids. The O atom, which is a strong acid, overcomes the basicity of the “naked dopants” D, so that DO becomes acidic, and the surface of the host oxide changes accordingly.
These older calculations were performed with GGA, and the results are questionable. It is likely that a GGA+U calculation would allow V, Cr, Mo, and W to donate electrons to reduce the Ti atoms from Ti4+ to Ti3+. In other words, within GGA+U the rutile cations have some acidity, and they will tend to partially neutralize the basicity of the HVDs V, Cr, Mo, or W. However, possible doubts in the reliability of the qualitative results obtained by GGA are allayed by two attenuating circumstance. First, the change in ΔEv when the dopant changes from D to DO is very large, and this provides a margin of safety. It is likely that GGA+U will also find that the presence of DO lowers ΔEv. Moreover, the cations in TiO2 are weak acids: given a choice between neutralizing Ti or forming a bond with the oxygen, it is likely that the extra electrons that make D a base will choose the latter.
A similar behavior has been observed for Zr-doped CaO and La2O3. The formation of ZrO2 does activate the surface oxygen atoms near the dopant. When this system reacts with CH4, the alkane dissociates, and it can either form Zr–O–CH3 and Zr–O–H (Figure 1) or form Zr–O–CH3 and OH (Figure 2), with the oxygen in OH being the surface oxygen. The latter is activated by the presence of ZrO2. The energies for these two dissociative adsorption processes are close to each other (−0.84 and −0.91 eV, respectively)
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Side view of the structure formed by the dissociation of methane on Zr-doped CaO(001). Unlike Figure 1, here the H atom formed by dissociation binds to an oxygen atom from the surface. The CH3 radical forms a methoxide with one of the oxygen atoms adsorbed on the Zr dopant. Ca is green; oxygen is red; Zr is blue; C is gray; and hydrogen is white. The dissociation is exothermic, and the reaction energy is −0.91 eV. (b) Structure in (a) seen from above.
A more dramatic example of this effect is provided by Nb-doped NiO(011). The Nb dopant, which has five valence electrons, replaces a divalent Ni atom. Therefore, Nb is a very strong base. The adsorption energy of O2 on the Nb dopant is −8.40 eV. This energy is so low that no reaction involving the oxygen atoms in the NbO2 group will result in gas-phase products (the Sabatier principle). This means that the exposure of the Nb-doped NiO(011) surface to oxygen, during an oxidation reaction, will cause each Nb atom in the surface to bind two oxygen atoms. If any catalysis is to take place on this surface, the catalyst is NiO(001) doped with NbO2. Our rules can help guess the behavior of this system. Formally, the adsorption of O2 on Nb brings to the NbO2 four electrons (O is divalent) so that (formally) the NbO2 group has only one available valence electron. Since this “monovalent” NbO2 group replaces a divalent Ni atom, it ought to act as a low-valence dopant and turn the surface into a Lewis acid. If this is true, then according to our rules, the presence of NbO2 dopant will weaken the binding energy of the surface oxygen atoms around the dopant and make it easier to make oxygen vacancies. The DFT calculations show that this prediction is correct. In Figure 3 we show the NiO(011) surface doped with NbO2. We marked two of the oxygen atoms as A and B. Making an oxygen vacancy by removing the atom A requires 2.31 eV, and making a vacancy by removing B costs 2.67 eV. This is substantially lower than the energy required for making an oxygen vacancy on the undoped surface, which is 3.28 eV. The NbO2 dopant acts indeed as a LVD (it is acid), and it facilitates the formation of oxygen vacancies (which are basic). This surface has another property typical of an oxide doped with a LVD: the oxygen atoms near the NbO2 group help the dissociative adsorption of ethane. Among many possible structures for the dissociation fragments, several involve the binding of H or CH3CH2 to the oxygen atoms in the surface of NiO, which are activated by the presence of the NbO2 dopant. The energy for this dissociative adsorption reaction, for various final fragment configurations, varies between −0.06 and −1.06 eV. This is lower than the dissociation energy on NiO. Doping with NbO2 favors the breaking of the C–H bond, which is typical of an oxide doped with a LVD.
Figure 3
Figure 3. NiO(011) doped with NbO2 which was obtained by replacing a surface Ni atom with Nb and then adsorbing an O2 molecule on Nb. The NbO2 group replaces a Ni atom, and it acts as a LVD (it is a Lewis acid). Because of this, the oxygen atoms marked A and B are easier to remove, to make oxygen vacancies, than in the case of the undoped oxide. Ni is purple; the oxygen in the top layer is red; the oxygen in the second layer is yellow; the oxygen adsorbed on Nb is dark blue; and Nb is light blue.
11 Summary
We have shown that many trends related to chemical processes relevant to catalytic chemistry of oxide surfaces can be predicted (or rationalized) by a few rules pertaining to the Lewis acid–base properties of the chemicals involved. These rules provide guidance on possible ways of manipulating oxide surface chemistry. (a) The binding energy of a Lewis acid to an oxide surface can be increased substantially if the surface is modified to become a Lewis base. This modification can be achieved by preadsorbing on the surface electron donors. Conversely, the binding energy of a Lewis base can be increased by modifying the surface to become a Lewis acid, which can be achieved by doping with low-valence dopants. (b) It is possible to define, qualitatively, an acid or a base strength, and the acid–base interaction increases as the strength of the acid or the base is increased. (c) If a surface is modified to be a Lewis acid, to confer on it certain properties, these properties can be substantially suppressed by adsorbing on the surface a Lewis base. The system behaves as if the base neutralizes the acid. (d) In some cases, an adsorbed species can have two isomers, one that is a base and the other that is an acid. If that species is coadsorbed with a Lewis acid, it will take the structure that is a base. If it is coadsorbed with a Lewis base, it will take the structure in which it is an acid. (e) Oxides doped with low-valence dopants are Lewis acids. Because of this, they lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation, increase the binding energy of various bases (e.g., H, CH3, CO) to the surface of the doped oxide, and make the dissociative adsorption an alkane RH more exothermic (because the fragments R and H produced by dissociation are Lewis bases and the surface is a Lewis acid). (f) Reducible oxides are Lewis acids, and this acidity lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation and increases the binding energy of single metal atoms. The vacancy is a strong base, and the unpaired electrons produced when the oxygen atom is removed are transferred to the cations of the oxide. This reduces the energy to form the vacancy. An adsorbed metal atom, such as Pt, or Au, or Cu, donates electrons to reduce the oxide’s cation. (g) High-valence dopants are Lewis bases, and they adsorb strongly Lewis acids such as O2 or X2 (X is a halogen). If the basicity of the dopant is not excessive, the acidity of the adsorbed oxygen or Br2 is not completely neutralized, and they are able to react with Lewis bases. If the dopant is very basic, the O2 molecule (or X2) adsorbed on it is bound too strongly, and it is not chemically active. However, in some cases the group formed by the dopant with O2 adsorbed on it acts as a low-valence dopant and activates surface oxygen.
These rules seem general (we found no exceptions); the effects predicted by them are large; and they seem to apply any time a chemical process involves a Lewis acid and a base, regardless of the chemical nature of the pair.
Author Information
Corresponding Author
Horia Metiu - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106-9510, United States;  Email: metiu@chem.ucsb.edu
Authors
Steeve Chrétien - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106-9510, United States
Zhenpeng Hu - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106-9510, United States
Bo Li - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106-9510, United States
XiaoYing Sun - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106-9510, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
Horia Metiu graduated from the Polytechnic Institute in Bucharest in 1961, received his Ph.D. from MIT in 1974 working with John Ross and Robert Silbey, and then was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Chicago with Karl Freed. He has been a professor in the Department of Chemistry at the University of California, Santa Barbara since 1976. He is currently involved in experimental and computational investigations of catalysis, electrocatalysis, and photoelectrocatalysis.
Steeve Chrétien is currently an assistant research specialist at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He received his M.Sc. in 1998 and his Ph.D. in 2002 in chemistry at the Université de Montréal under the supervision of Prof. Dennis R. Salahub. His thesis research focused on a mechanistic study of the cyclotrimerization of acetylene to benzene catalyzed by iron clusters in the gas phase using density functional theory (DFT). His current research focuses on using DFT to study the catalytic activity of doped oxides and metallic clusters supported on oxides.
Zhenpeng Hu received his B.S. Degree in Applied Chemistry from the University of Science and Technology of China in 2002 and earned his Ph.D. degree in Condensed Matter Physics there in 2008 under the supervision of Prof. Jianguo Hou and Prof. Jinlong Yang. From 2008 to 2011, he did postdoctoral research with Prof. Horia Metiu and Prof. Eric McFarland at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In 2012 he joined the faculty of Nankai University.
Bo Li received his M.S. in Physical Chemistry from Jilin University in 2004 and his Ph.D. in Physics in 2009 from the theory department of the Fritz-Haber-Institüt under the supervision of Prof. Matthias Scheffler and Prof. Angelos Michaelides. Then he went to the University of California, Santa Barbara and joined Prof. Horia Metiu’s group as a Postdoc. Currently, he is a staff scientist in the Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
XiaoYing Sun received her B.E. in Chemistry from Beihua University, China, in 2001. She received her Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from Jilin University in 2006. Then she went to Technische Universität of Berlin as a postdoc. She is currently working as a postdoc in Prof. Horia Metiu’s group at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Acknowledgment
This research was supported in part by the University of California Lab Fees Program (09-LR-08-116809), the U.S. Department of Energy (DE-FG02-89ER140048), and the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (FA9550-09-1-0333), and by the National Science Foundation through TeraGrid resources provided by Ranger@TACC under grant number TG-ASC090080. We acknowledge support from the Center for Scientific Computing from the CNSI, MRL: an NSF MRSEC (DMR-1121053) and NSF CNS-0960316 and Hewlett-Packard. Use of the Center for Nanoscale Materials was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357.
References
This article references 108 other publications.
1Lewis, G. N. J. Franklin Inst. 1938, 226, 293– 313
Google Scholar
2Bader, R. Atoms in Molecules: A Quantum Theory; Clarendon: Oxford, 1994.
Google Scholar
3Henkelman, G.; Arnaldsson, A.; Jonsson, H. Comput. Mater. Sci. 2006, 36, 354– 360
Google Scholar
4Sanville, E.; Kenny, S. D.; Smith, R.; Henkelman, G. J. Comput. Chem. 2007, 28, 899– 908
Google Scholar
5Dudarev, S. L.; Botton, G. A.; Savrasov, S. Y.; Humphreys, C. J.; Sutton, A. P. Phys. Rev. B 1998, 57, 1505– 1509
Google Scholar
6Nolan, M. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2010, 499, 126– 130
Google Scholar
7Iwaszuk, A.; Nolan, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 12995– 13007
Google Scholar
8Nolan, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 6671– 6681
Google Scholar
9Yeriskin, I.; Nolan, M. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2010, 22, 135004
Google Scholar
10Nolan, M. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2010, 492, 115– 118
Google Scholar
11Nolan, M.; Watson, G. W. J. Chem. Phys. 2006, 125, 144701– 144706
Google Scholar
12Nolan, M.; Grigoleit, S.; Sayle, D. C.; Parker, S. C.; Watson, G. W. Surf. Sci. 2005, 576, 217– 229
Google Scholar
13Plata, J. J.; Marquez, A. M.; Sanz, J. F. J. Chem. Phys. 2012, 136, 041101
Google Scholar
14Liu, L. M.; Crawford, P.; Hu, P. Prog. Surf. Sci. 2009, 84, 155– 176
Google Scholar
15Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128, 044714
Google Scholar
16Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 127, 084704
Google Scholar
17Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 126, 104701
Google Scholar
18Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 127, 244708
Google Scholar
19Stausholm-Møller, J.; Kristoffersen, H. H.; Hinnemann, B.; Madsen, G. K. H.; Hammer, B. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133, 144708
Google Scholar
20Molina, L. M.; Rasmussen, M. D.; Hammer, B. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 7673– 7680
Google Scholar
21Rasmussen, M. D.; Molina, L. M.; Hammer, B. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 988– 997
Google Scholar
22Lisenbigler, A.; Lu, G.; Yates, J. T. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 6631
Google Scholar
23Henderson, M. A.; Epling, W. S.; Perkins, C. L.; Peden, C. H. F.; Diebold, U. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 5328– 5337
Google Scholar
24Wu, X. Y.; Selloni, A.; Lazzeri, M.; Nayak, S. K. Phys. Rev. B 2003, 68, 241402
Google Scholar
25Li, B.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 4137– 4148
Google Scholar
26Hu, Z.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 6664– 6671
Google Scholar
27Freund, H. J. Chem.–Eur. J. 2010, 16, 9384– 9397
Google Scholar
28Freund, H.-J.; Pacchioni, G. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2224– 2242
Google Scholar
29Nilius, N.; Risse, T.; Schauermann, S.; Shaikhutdinov, S.; Sterrer, M.; Freund, H. J. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 4– 12
Google Scholar
30Pacchioni, G.; Giordano, L.; Baistrocchi, M. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2005, 94, 226104
Google Scholar
31Sterrer, M.; Risse, T.; Martinez Pozzoni, U.; Giordano, L.; Heyde, M.; Rust, H.-P.; Pacchioni, G.; Freund, H.-J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2007, 98, 096107
Google Scholar
32Hellman, A.; Klacar, S.; Grönbeck, H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 16636– 16637
Google Scholar
33Frondelius, P.; Hellman, A.; Honkala, K.; Häkkinen, H.; Grönbeck, H. Phys. Rev. B 2008, 78, 085426
Google Scholar
34Chrétien, S.; Gordon, M. S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 121, 3756– 3766
Google Scholar
35Chrétien, S.; Gordon, M. S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 121, 9931– 9937
Google Scholar
36Chrétien, S.; Buratto, S. K.; Metiu, H. Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 2007, 11, 62– 75
Google Scholar
37Cui, X.; Wang, B.; Wang, Z.; Huang, T.; Zhao, Y.; Yang, J.; Hou, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 044703
Google Scholar
38Mayernick, A. D.; Janik, M. J. J. Catal. 2011, 278, 16– 25
Google Scholar
39Cheng, H. Z.; Selloni, A. Phys. Rev. B 2009, 79, 092101
Google Scholar
40Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 4696– 4705
Google Scholar
41Dholabhai, P. P.; Adams, J. B.; Crozier, P.; Sharma, R. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 132, 094104
Google Scholar
42Esch, F.; Fabris, S.; Zhou, L.; Montini, T.; Africh, C.; Fornasiero, P.; Comelli, G.; Rosei, R. Science 2005, 309, 752– 755
Google Scholar
43Finazzi, E.; Di Valentin, C.; Pacchioni, G.; Selloni, A. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 154113
Google Scholar
44Herschend, B.; Baudin, M.; Hermansson, K. Surf. Sci. 2005, 599, 173– 186
Google Scholar
45Khan, S.; Oldman, R. J.; Cora, F.; Catlow, C. R. A.; French, S. A.; Axon, S. A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 5207– 5222
Google Scholar
46Li, B.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 12234– 12244
Google Scholar
47Mayernick, A. D.; Janik, M. J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 14955– 14964
Google Scholar
48Minato, T.; Sainoo, Y.; Kim, Y.; Kato, H. S.; Aika, K. I.; Kawai, M.; Zhao, J.; Petek, H.; Huang, T.; He, W.; Wang, B.; Wang, Z.; Zhao, Y.; Yang, J.; Hou, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 130, 124502
Google Scholar
49Morgan, B. J.; Watson, G. W. Surf. Sci. 2007, 601, 5034– 5041
Google Scholar
50Morgan, B. J.; Watson, G. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 7322– 7328
Google Scholar
51Morgan, B. J.; Watson, G. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 2321– 2328
Google Scholar
52Nolan, M. J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 9160– 9168
Google Scholar
53Nolan, M.; Parker, S. C.; Watson, G. W. Surf. Sci. 2005, 595, 223– 232
Google Scholar
54Nolan, M.; Soto Verdugo, V.; Metiu, H. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 2734– 2742
Google Scholar
55Wu, X. Y.; Selloni, A.; Nayak, S. K. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 4512– 4516
Google Scholar
56Yang, Z. X.; Yu, X. H.; Lu, Z. S.; Li, S. F.; Hermansson, K. Phys. Lett. A 2009, 373, 2786– 2792
Google Scholar
57Zhang, C. J.; Michaelides, A.; King, D. A.; Jenkins, S. J. Phys. Rev. B 2009, 79, 075433
Google Scholar
58Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V.; Da Silva, J. L. F.; Sauer, J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2009, 102, 026101
Google Scholar
59Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V.; Hofmann, A.; Sauer, J. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2007, 62, 219– 270
Google Scholar
60Deskins, N. A.; Rousseau, R.; Dupuis, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 7562– 7572
Google Scholar
61Du, Y. G.; Deskins, N. A.; Zhang, Z. R.; Dohnalek, Z.; Dupuis, M.; Lyubinetsky, I. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2010, 12, 6337– 6344
Google Scholar
62Jerratsch, J. F.; Shao, X.; Nilius, N.; Freund, H. J.; Popa, C.; Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V.; Burow, A. M.; Sauer, J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2011, 106, 246801
Google Scholar
63Shao, X.; Jerratsch, J.-F.; Nilius, N.; Freund, H.-J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 12646– 12651
Google Scholar
64Papageorgiou, A. C.; Beglitis, N. S.; Pang, C. L.; Teobaldi, G.; Cabailh, G.; Chen, Q.; Fisher, A. J.; Hofer, W. A.; Thornton, G. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2010, 107, 2391– 2396
Google Scholar
65Mars, P.; van Krevelen, D. W. Chem. Eng. Sci. Spec. Suppl. 1954, 3, 41– 59
Google Scholar
66Doornkamp, C.; Ponec, V. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 162, 19– 32
Google Scholar
67Vannice, M. A. Catal. Today 2007, 123, 18– 22
Google Scholar
68Wendt, S.; Schaub, R.; Matthiesen, J.; Vestergaard, E. K.; Wahlstrom, E.; Rasmussen, M. D.; Thostrup, P.; Molina, L. M.; Laegsgaard, E.; Stensgaard, I.; Hammer, B.; Besenbacher, F. Surf. Sci. 2005, 598, 226– 245
Google Scholar
69Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 0747705
Google Scholar
70Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 681– 691
Google Scholar
71Hegde, M. S.; Madras, G.; Patil, K. C. Acc. Chem. Res. 2009, 42, 704– 712
Google Scholar
72Yeriskin, I.; Nolan, M. J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 131, 244702
Google Scholar
73Shapovalov, V.; Metiu, H. J. Catal. 2007, 245, 205– 214
Google Scholar
74Nolan, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 2425– 2432
Google Scholar
75Pala, R. G. S.; Metiu, H. J. Catal. 2008, 254, 325– 331
Google Scholar
76Pala, R. G. S.; Tang, W.; Sushchikh, M. M.; Park, J.-N.; Forman, A. J.; Wu, G.; Kleiman-Shwarsctein, A.; Zhang, J.; McFarland, E. W.; Metiu, H. J. Catal. 2009, 266, 50– 58
Google Scholar
77Hu, Z.; Li, B.; Sun, X.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 3065– 3074
Google Scholar
78Tang, W.; Hu, Z.; Wang, M.; Stucky, G. D.; Metiu, H.; McFarland, E. W. J. Catal. 2010, 273, 125– 137
Google Scholar
79Pala, R. G. S.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 8617– 8622
Google Scholar
80Chrétien, S.; Metiu, H. Catal. Lett. 2006, 107, 143– 147
Google Scholar
81Barrio, L.; Kubacka, A.; Zhou, G.; Estrella, M.; Martinez-Arias, A.; Hanson, J. C.; Fernandez-Garcia, M.; Rodriguez, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 12689– 12697
Google Scholar
82Wang, X.; Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C.; Gamarra, D.; Martinez-Arias, A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 19595– 19603
Google Scholar
83Rodriguez, J. A.; Wang, X. Q.; Hanson, J. C.; Liu, G.; Iglesias-Juez, A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M. J. Chem. Phys. 2003, 119, 5659– 5669
Google Scholar
84Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C.; Kim, J.-Y.; Liu, G.; Iglesias-Juez, A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107, 3535– 3543
Google Scholar
85Carrettin, S.; Hao, Y.; Aguilar-Guerrero, V.; Gates, B. C.; Trasobares, S.; Calvino, J. J.; Corma, A. Chem.–Eur. J. 2007, 13, 7771– 7779
Google Scholar
86Li, B.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 18239– 18246
Google Scholar
87Hu, Z.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 17898– 17909
Google Scholar
88Chen, H.-T.; Chang, J.-G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 14745– 14753
Google Scholar
89Yang, Z. X.; Ma, D. W.; Yu, X. H.; Hermansson, K. Eur. Phys. J. B 2010, 77, 373– 380
Google Scholar
90Yang, Z. X.; He, B. L.; Lu, Z. S.; Hermansson, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 4486– 4494
Google Scholar
91Wang, X. Q.; Shen, M. Q.; Wang, J.; Fabris, S. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 10221– 10228
Google Scholar
92Camellone, M. F.; Fabris, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 10473– 10483
Google Scholar
93Yang, Z.; Fu, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Wu, R. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 78– 82
Google Scholar
94Vicario, G.; Balducci, G.; Fabris, S.; de Gironcoli, S.; Baroni, S. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 19380– 19385
Google Scholar
95Diebold, U. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2003, 48, 53– 229
Google Scholar
96Diebold, U.; Li, S. C.; Schmid, M. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 2010, 61, 129– 148
Google Scholar
97Gorte, R. J. AIChE J. 2010, 56, 1126– 1135
Google Scholar
98Trovarelli, A. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 439– 520
Google Scholar
99Trovarelli, A. Catalysis by Ceria and Related Materials; Imperial College Press: London, 2002.
Google Scholar
100Pang, C. L.; Lindsay, R.; Thornton, G. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2328– 2353
Google Scholar
101Yim, C. M.; Pang, C. L.; Thornton, G. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2010, 104, 036806
Google Scholar
102Yim, C. M.; Pang, C. L.; Thornton, G. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2010, 104, 259704
Google Scholar
103Pang, C. L.; Thornton, G. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 3255– 3261
Google Scholar
104Li, H. Y.; Wang, H. F.; Gong, X. Q.; Guo, Y. L.; Guo, Y.; Lu, G. Z.; Hu, P. Phys. Rev. B 2009, 79, 193401
Google Scholar
105Deskins, N. A.; Rousseau, R.; Dupuis, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 5891– 5897
Google Scholar
106Szabova, L.; Camellone, M. F.; Huang, M.; Matolin, V.; Fabris, S. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133, 234705
Google Scholar
107Hernandez, N. C.; Grau-Crespo, R.; de Leeuw, N. H.; Sanz, J. F. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 5246– 5252
Google Scholar
108Kim, H. Y.; Lee, H. M.; Pala, R. G. S.; Shapovalov, V.; Metiu, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 12398– 12408
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
29
Mentioning
302
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 301 publications.
Yan Hao, Yang Zhou, Zheng Gao, Dajie Zhao, Linlin Du, Ting Xu, Yang Zhang, Shili Song, Qinghu Tang. Zirconia Nanoparticles Uniformly Supported on Mesoporous Alumina–Carbon as a Highly Efficient Catalyst for the Direct Ethanol-to-Butadiene Reaction. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2024, Article ASAP.
Yarong Fang, Ji Yang, Chuanqi Pan. The Surface/Interface Modulation of Platinum Group Metal (PGM)-Free Catalysts for VOCs and CO Catalytic Oxidation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2024, 16 (29) , 37379-37389. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c08018
Xiaohai Zheng, Bang Li, Rui Huang, Weiping Jiang, Lijuan Shen, Ganchang Lei, Shiping Wang, Yingying Zhan, Lilong Jiang. Asymmetric Oxygen Vacancy-Promoted Synthesis of Aminoarenes from Nitroarenes Using Waste H2S as a “Hydrogen Donor”. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (13) , 10245-10259. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.4c02478
Matthew J. Bonney, Celine Tesvara, Philippe Sautet, Michael G. White. Understanding the Decomposition of Dimethyl Methyl Phosphonate on Metal-Modified TiO2(110) Surfaces Using Ensembles of Product Configurations. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2024, 16 (19) , 25483-25497. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c01250
Nivedita Singh, Uttam Kumar, Neha Jatav, Indrajit Sinha. Photocatalytic Degradation of Crystal Violet on Cu, Zn Doped BiVO4 Particles. Langmuir 2024, 40 (16) , 8450-8462. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.3c04039
Qing Luo, Qian Ma, Taoxia Liu, Yiting Luo, Lianying Wang, Chang Guo, Leyu Wang. Improving Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Chemodynamic Therapy Properties via Tuning the Fe(II)/Fe(III) Ratio in Hydrophilic Single-Atom Nanobowls. ACS Nano 2024, 18 (14) , 10063-10073. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c12305
Matthew Jacob, Huy Nguyen, Matthew Neurock, Aditya Bhan. Kinetics of Redox Half-Cycles on Bi2O3 for the Selective Catalytic Combustion of Hydrogen. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (7) , 4568-4580. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c05585
Muchun Fei, Benjamin Williams, Lizhuo Wang, Haoyi Li, Yucheng Yuan, James R. Wilkes, Tianying Liu, Yu Mu, Jier Huang, James Nyakuchena, Jun Huang, Wei Li, Dunwei Wang. Highly Selective Photocatalytic Methane Coupling by Au-Modified Bi2WO6. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (3) , 1855-1861. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c05534
Masayoshi Miyazaki, Hiroshi Saito, Kiya Ogasawara, Masaaki Kitano, Hideo Hosono. BaTiO3–xNy: Highly Basic Oxide Catalyst Exhibiting Coupling of Electrons at Oxygen Vacancies with Substituted Nitride Ions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (48) , 25976-25982. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c10727
Yi Ou, Yong Zhou, Yongcai Guo, Wen Niu, Yanjie Wang, Min Jiao, Chao Gao. 2D/2D Dy2O3 Nanosheet/MoO3 Nanoflake Heterostructures for Humidity-Independent and Sensitive Ammonia Detection. ACS Sensors 2023, 8 (11) , 4253-4263. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssensors.3c01609
Jiří Henych, Petr Ryšánek, Martin Št’astný, Zuzana Němečková, Slavomír Adamec, Martin Kormunda, Simona Kamínková, Kateřina Hamalová, Jakub Tolasz, Pavel Janoš. Electrospun PA6 Nanofibers Bearing the CeO2 Dephosphorylation Catalyst. ACS Omega 2023, 8 (29) , 26610-26618. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c03561
Amir Rahmani Chokanlu, Akbar Mahdavi-Shakib, Liping Yu, Thomas J. Schwartz, Rachel N. Austin, Brian G. Frederick. Direct Evidence for Sulfur-Induced Deep Electron and Hole Traps in Titania and Implications for Photochemistry. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (14) , 6754-6767. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00526
Yun Su, Kaixuan Fu, Caihong Pang, Yanfei Zheng, Chunfeng Song, Na Ji, Degang Ma, Xuebin Lu, Caixia Liu, Rui Han, Qingling Liu. Recent Advances of Chlorinated Volatile Organic Compounds’ Oxidation Catalyzed by Multiple Catalysts: Reasonable Adjustment of Acidity and Redox Properties. Environmental Science & Technology 2022, 56 (14) , 9854-9871. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.2c01420
Matthew J. Voegtle, Jahan M. Dawlaty. Can Brønsted Photobases Act as Lewis Photobases?. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (18) , 8178-8184. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01089
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Divakar R. Aireddy, Kunlun Ding. Heterolytic Dissociation of H2 in Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4707-4723. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00584
Evan V. Miu, James R. McKone, Giannis Mpourmpakis. The Sensitivity of Metal Oxide Electrocatalysis to Bulk Hydrogen Intercalation: Hydrogen Evolution on Tungsten Oxide. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (14) , 6420-6433. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00825
Jennifer N. Jocz, Yimeng Lyu, Bryan J. Hare, Carsten Sievers. Characterization of Surface Species during Benzene Hydroxylation over a NiO-Ceria-Zirconia Catalyst. Langmuir 2022, 38 (1) , 458-471. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.1c02833
Yifan Zhu, Dongyang Zhu, Qianqian Yan, Guanhui Gao, Jianan Xu, Yifeng Liu, Sampath B. Alahakoon, Muhammad M. Rahman, Pulickel M. Ajayan, Eilaf Egap, Rafael Verduzco. Metal Oxide Catalysts for the Synthesis of Covalent Organic Frameworks and One-Step Preparation of Covalent Organic Framework-Based Composites. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (15) , 6158-6165. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01747
Mie Andersen, Karsten Reuter. Adsorption Enthalpies for Catalysis Modeling through Machine-Learned Descriptors. Accounts of Chemical Research 2021, 54 (12) , 2741-2749. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00153
Qing-Yu Chang, Kai-Qi Wang, Zhi-Jun Sui, Xing-Gui Zhou, De Chen, Wei-Kang Yuan, Yi-An Zhu. Rational Design of Single-Atom-Doped Ga2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation: Breaking through Volcano Plot by Lewis Acid–Base Interactions. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (9) , 5135-5147. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05454
Jenny G. Vitillo, Connie C. Lu, Christopher J. Cramer, Aditya Bhan, Laura Gagliardi. Influence of First and Second Coordination Environment on Structural Fe(II) Sites in MIL-101 for C–H Bond Activation in Methane. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (2) , 579-589. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03906
Wenbin Xu, Mie Andersen, Karsten Reuter. Data-Driven Descriptor Engineering and Refined Scaling Relations for Predicting Transition Metal Oxide Reactivity. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (2) , 734-742. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04170
Holly E. Rudel, Mary Kate M. Lane, Christopher L. Muhich, Julie B. Zimmerman. Toward Informed Design of Nanomaterials: A Mechanistic Analysis of Structure–Property–Function Relationships for Faceted Nanoscale Metal Oxides. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (12) , 16472-16501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c08356
Evan V. Miu, Giannis Mpourmpakis, James R. McKone. Predicting the Energetics of Hydrogen Intercalation in Metal Oxides Using Acid–Base Properties. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (40) , 44658-44670. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c11300
Chong Liu, Yuxin Li, Motoshi Takao, Takashi Toyao, Zen Maeno, Takashi Kamachi, Yoyo Hinuma, Ichigaku Takigawa, Ken-ichi Shimizu. Frontier Molecular Orbital Based Analysis of Solid–Adsorbate Interactions over Group 13 Metal Oxide Surfaces. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (28) , 15355-15365. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c04480
Hussein T. Abdulrazzaq, Amir Rahmani Chokanlu, Brian G. Frederick, Thomas J. Schwartz. Reaction Kinetics Analysis of Ethanol Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by MgO–SiO2. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (11) , 6318-6331. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00811
Wei Zhang, Min Pu, Ming Lei. Theoretical Studies on the Stability and Reactivity of the Metal-Doped CeO2(100) Surface: Toward H2 Dissociation and Oxygen Vacancy Formation. Langmuir 2020, 36 (21) , 5891-5901. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c00644
Abdallah I.M. Rabee, Son Dinh Le, Koichi Higashimine, Shun Nishimura. Aerobic Oxidation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural into 2,5-Furandicarboxylic Acid over Gold Stabilized on Zirconia-Based Supports. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2020, 8 (18) , 7150-7161. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c01619
Meiling Fan, Xiangchuan Pan, Weiran Lin, Haining Zhang. Carbon-Covered Hollow Nitrogen-Doped Carbon Nanoparticles and Nitrogen-Doped Carbon-Covered Hollow Carbon Nanoparticles for Oxygen Reduction. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (4) , 3487-3493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c00222
Hua-Min Zhang, Qi-Yuan Fan, Qing-Hong Zhang, Jin-Can Kang, Ye Wang, Jun Cheng. Understanding Catalytic Mechanisms of Alkane Oxychlorination from the Perspective of Energy Levels. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (11) , 6070-6077. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b10464
Robert E. Warburton, Matthias J. Young, Steven Letourneau, Jeffrey W. Elam, Jeffrey Greeley. Descriptor-Based Analysis of Atomic Layer Deposition Mechanisms on Spinel LiMn2O4 Lithium-Ion Battery Cathodes. Chemistry of Materials 2020, 32 (5) , 1794-1806. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b03809
Liu Pi, Rui Jiang, Wanxin Cai, Lei Wang, Yangyang Wang, Jianhua Cai, Xuhui Mao. Bionic Preparation of CeO2-Encapsulated Nitrogen Self-Doped Biochars for Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (3) , 3642-3653. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b19614
Luca Brugnoli, Alfonso Pedone, Maria Cristina Menziani, Carlo Adamo, Frédéric Labat. H2 Dissociation and Water Evolution on Silver-Decorated CeO2(111): A Hybrid Density Functional Theory Investigation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (42) , 25668-25679. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b06805
Behnaz Rahmani Didar, Perla B. Balbuena. Reactivity of Cu and Co Nanoparticles Supported on Mo-Doped MgO. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (39) , 18213-18222. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.9b03517
Hua Bing Tao, Junming Zhang, Jiazang Chen, Liping Zhang, Yinghua Xu, Jingguang G. Chen, Bin Liu. Revealing Energetics of Surface Oxygen Redox from Kinetic Fingerprint in Oxygen Electrocatalysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (35) , 13803-13811. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b01834
Yijing Gao, Runhong Huang, Jianguo Wang, Zili Wu, De-en Jiang. Effect of Hydrogen-Induced Metallization on Chemisorption. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (24) , 15171-15175. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04931
Qing-Yu Chang, Qiang Yin, Fang Ma, Yi-An Zhu, Zhi-Jun Sui, Xing-Gui Zhou, De Chen, Wei-Kang Yuan. Tuning Adsorption and Catalytic Properties of α-Cr2O3 and ZnO in Propane Dehydrogenation by Creating Oxygen Vacancy and Doping Single Pt Atom: A Comparative First-Principles Study. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (24) , 10199-10209. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01143
Zheng-Qing Huang, Tianyu Zhang, Chun-Ran Chang, Jun Li. Dynamic Frustrated Lewis Pairs on Ceria for Direct Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (6) , 5523-5536. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00838
Wei Zhang, Xue-Lu Ma, Hai Xiao, Ming Lei, Jun Li. Mechanistic Investigations on Thermal Hydrogenation of CO2 to Methanol by Nanostructured CeO2(100): The Crystal-Plane Effect on Catalytic Reactivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (18) , 11763-11771. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b02120
Arthur C. Reber, Dinesh Bista, Vikas Chauhan, Shiv N. Khanna. Transforming Redox Properties of Clusters Using Phosphine Ligands. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (14) , 8983-8989. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b00039
Jenny G. Vitillo, Aditya Bhan, Christopher J. Cramer, Connie C. Lu, Laura Gagliardi. Quantum Chemical Characterization of Structural Single Fe(II) Sites in MIL-Type Metal–Organic Frameworks for the Oxidation of Methane to Methanol and Ethane to Ethanol. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (4) , 2870-2879. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b04813
Sergei Hanukovich, Alan Dang, Phillip Christopher. Influence of Metal Oxide Support Acid Sites on Cu-Catalyzed Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethanol to Acetaldehyde. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (4) , 3537-3550. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b05075
Marco M. Allard, Stephanie N. Merlos, Brittney N. Springer, Jamey Cooper, Guangyu Zhang, Danilo S. Boskovic, So Ran Kwon, Kevin E. Nick, Christopher C. Perry. Role of TiO2 Anatase Surface Morphology on Organophosphorus Interfacial Chemistry. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (51) , 29237-29248. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08641
Y. Yang, A. C. Reber, S. E. Gilliland, III, C. E. Castano, B. F. Gupton, S. N. Khanna. Donor/Acceptor Concepts for Developing Efficient Suzuki Cross-Coupling Catalysts Using Graphene-Supported Ni, Cu, Fe, Pd, and Bimetallic Pd/Ni Clusters. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (44) , 25396-25403. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b07538
Jose Luis Ortiz-Quiñonez, Carolina Vega-Verduga, David Díaz, Inti Zumeta-Dubé. Transformation of Bismuth and β-Bi2O3 Nanoparticles into (BiO)2CO3 and (BiO)4(OH)2CO3 by Capturing CO2: The Role of Halloysite Nanotubes and “Sunlight” on the Crystal Shape and Size. Crystal Growth & Design 2018, 18 (8) , 4334-4346. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.8b00177
Joel G. Patrow, Yi Wang, Jahan M. Dawlaty. Interfacial Lewis Acid–Base Adduct Formation Probed by Vibrational Spectroscopy. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2018, 9 (13) , 3631-3638. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.8b00470
Muhamed Yusuf Shahul Hamid, Sugeng Triwahyono, Aishah Abdul Jalil, Nurfatehah Wahyuny Che Jusoh, Siti Maryam Izan, Tuan Amran Tuan Abdullah. Tailoring the Properties of Metal Oxide Loaded/KCC-1 toward a Different Mechanism of CO2 Methanation by in Situ IR and ESR. Inorganic Chemistry 2018, 57 (10) , 5859-5869. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.8b00241
Matthew C. Simons, Manuel A. Ortuño, Varinia Bernales, Carlo Alberto Gaggioli, Christopher J. Cramer, Aditya Bhan, Laura Gagliardi. C–H Bond Activation on Bimetallic Two-Atom Co-M Oxide Clusters Deposited on Zr-Based MOF Nodes: Effects of Doping at the Molecular Level. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (4) , 2864-2869. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00012
Jing Yang, Yanlu Li, Xian Zhao, Weiliu Fan. Critical Role of Water and Oxygen Defects in C–O Scission during CO2 Reduction on Zn2GeO4(010). Langmuir 2018, 34 (12) , 3742-3754. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.7b03360
Mathilde Iachella, Tangui Le Bahers, and David Loffreda . Diffusion Kinetics of Gold and Copper Atoms on Pristine and Reduced Rutile TiO2 (110) Surfaces. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (7) , 3824-3837. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b08183
Amy M. Jystad, Alessandro Biancardi, and Marco Caricato . Simulations of Ammonia Adsorption for the Characterization of Acid Sites in Metal-Doped Amorphous Silicates. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (40) , 22258-22267. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b08113
Uma Tumuluri, Joshua D. Howe, William P. Mounfield, III, Meijun Li, Miaofang Chi, Zachary D. Hood, Krista S. Walton, David S. Sholl, Sheng Dai, and Zili Wu . Effect of Surface Structure of TiO2 Nanoparticles on CO2 Adsorption and SO2 Resistance. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2017, 5 (10) , 9295-9306. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b02295
Ivano E. Castelli, Isabela-Costinela Man, Stefan-Gabriel Soriga, Vasile Parvulescu, Niels Bendtsen Halck, and Jan Rossmeisl . Role of the Band Gap for the Interaction Energy of Coadsorbed Fragments. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (34) , 18608-18614. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b04974
Jithin John Varghese and Samir H. Mushrif . Insights into the C–H Bond Activation on NiO Surfaces: The Role of Nickel and Oxygen Vacancies and of Low Valent Dopants on the Reactivity and Energetics. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (33) , 17969-17981. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b05226
Irina Yu. Grubova, Maria A. Surmeneva, Stijn Huygh, Roman A. Surmenev, and Erik C. Neyts . Density Functional Theory Study of Interface Interactions in Hydroxyapatite/Rutile Composites for Biomedical Applications. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (29) , 15687-15695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b02926
Pierre Schwach, Xiulian Pan, and Xinhe Bao . Direct Conversion of Methane to Value-Added Chemicals over Heterogeneous Catalysts: Challenges and Prospects. Chemical Reviews 2017, 117 (13) , 8497-8520. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00715
Prateek Mehta, Jeffrey Greeley, W. Nicholas Delgass, and William F. Schneider . Adsorption Energy Correlations at the Metal–Support Boundary. ACS Catalysis 2017, 7 (7) , 4707-4715. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b00979
Maxime Van den Bossche and Henrik Grönbeck . Adsorbate Pairing on Oxide Surfaces: Influence on Reactivity and Dependence on Oxide, Adsorbate Pair, and Density Functional. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (15) , 8390-8398. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b12789
Henrik H. Kristoffersen, Hunter L. Neilson, Steven K. Buratto, and Horia Metiu . Stability of V2O5 Supported on Titania in the Presence of Water, Bulk Oxygen Vacancies, and Adsorbed Oxygen Atoms. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (15) , 8444-8451. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b00745
Vikas Chauhan, Arthur C. Reber, and Shiv N. Khanna . Metal Chalcogenide Clusters with Closed Electronic Shells and the Electronic Properties of Alkalis and Halogens. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (5) , 1871-1877. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b09416
Zhinian Li, Lei He, Shenliang Wang, Wuzhong Yi, Shihui Zou, Liping Xiao, and Jie Fan . Fast Optimization of LiMgMnOx/La2O3 Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. ACS Combinatorial Science 2017, 19 (1) , 15-24. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscombsci.6b00108
Jingyue Liu . Catalysis by Supported Single Metal Atoms. ACS Catalysis 2017, 7 (1) , 34-59. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01534
Anita M. D’Angelo, Zili Wu, Steven H. Overbury, and Alan L. Chaffee . Cu-Enhanced Surface Defects and Lattice Mobility of Pr-CeO2 Mixed Oxides. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (49) , 27996-28008. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b08947
Manjusha C. Padole and Parag A. Deshpande . Acid–Base Interactions in Halobenzene–Ceria Systems: Insights into Oxidative Addition from Theory. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (44) , 25436-25444. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b08355
Tej Choksi and Jeffrey Greeley . Partial Oxidation of Methanol on MoO3 (010): A DFT and Microkinetic Study. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (11) , 7260-7277. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01633
Stijn Huygh, Annemie Bogaerts, and Erik C. Neyts . How Oxygen Vacancies Activate CO2 Dissociation on TiO2 Anatase (001). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (38) , 21659-21669. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b07459
Kulbir Kaur Ghuman, Laura B. Hoch, Thomas E. Wood, Charles Mims, Chandra Veer Singh, and Geoffrey A. Ozin . Surface Analogues of Molecular Frustrated Lewis Pairs in Heterogeneous CO2 Hydrogenation Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (9) , 5764-5770. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01015
Antonio Ruiz Puigdollers, Sergio Tosoni, and Gianfranco Pacchioni . Turning a Nonreducible into a Reducible Oxide via Nanostructuring: Opposite Behavior of Bulk ZrO2 and ZrO2 Nanoparticles Toward H2 Adsorption. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (28) , 15329-15337. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b05984
Henrik H. Kristoffersen and Horia Metiu . Interaction between Monomeric Vanadium Oxide Clusters Supported on Titania and Its Influence on Their Reactivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (25) , 13610-13621. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b04216
Vishal Agarwal and Horia Metiu . Energy of Oxygen-Vacancy Formation on Oxide Surfaces: Role of the Spatial Distribution. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (4) , 2320-2323. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b12054
Marçal Capdevila-Cortada and Núria López . Descriptor Analysis in Methanol Conversion on Doped CeO2(111): Guidelines for Selectivity Tuning. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (11) , 6473-6480. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01427
Oscar Gamba, Heshmat Noei, Jiří Pavelec, Roland Bliem, Michael Schmid, Ulrike Diebold, Andreas Stierle, and Gareth S. Parkinson . Adsorption of Formic Acid on the Fe3O4(001) Surface. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (35) , 20459-20465. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b05560
Steeve Chrétien and Horia Metiu . Hydrogen Dissociative Adsorption on Lanthana: Polaron Formation and the Role of Acid–Base Interactions. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (34) , 19876-19882. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b05310
Vishal Agarwal and Horia Metiu . Hydrogen Abstraction Energies and Ammonia Binding to BEA, ZSM-5, and α-Quartz Doped with Al, Sc, B, or Ga. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (28) , 16106-16114. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b04171
Zili Wu, Amanda K. P. Mann, Meijun Li, and Steven H. Overbury . Spectroscopic Investigation of Surface-Dependent Acid–Base Property of Ceria Nanoshapes. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (13) , 7340-7350. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b00859
Monica McEntee, Ana Stevanovic, Wenjie Tang, Matthew Neurock, and John T. Yates, Jr. . Electric Field Changes on Au Nanoparticles on Semiconductor Supports – The Molecular Voltmeter and Other Methods to Observe Adsorbate-Induced Charge-Transfer Effects in Au/TiO2 Nanocatalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (5) , 1972-1982. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja511982n
Jinzhen Zhu, Xiaodong Ren, Jianjun Liu, Wenqing Zhang, and Zhaoyin Wen . Unraveling the Catalytic Mechanism of Co3O4 for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction in a Li–O2 Battery. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (1) , 73-81. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5014442
Steeve Chrétien and Horia Metiu . Acid–Base Interaction and Its Role in Alkane Dissociative Chemisorption on Oxide Surfaces. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (47) , 27336-27342. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp507207b
Max García-Melchor, Luca Bellarosa, and Núria López . Unique Reaction Path in Heterogeneous Catalysis: The Concerted Semi-Hydrogenation of Propyne to Propene on CeO2. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (11) , 4015-4020. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5011508
Steeve Chrétien and Horia Metiu . Oxygen Adsorption on Irreducible Oxides Doped with Higher Valence Ions: O2 Binding to the Dopant. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (40) , 23070-23082. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp505918e
Arthur C. Reber and Shiv N. Khanna . Effect of N- and P-Type Doping on the Oxygen-Binding Energy and Oxygen Spillover of Supported Palladium Clusters. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (35) , 20306-20313. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp5045145
Shuanglin Hu, Philippe A. Bopp, Lars Österlund, Peter Broqvist, and Kersti Hermansson . Formic Acid on TiO2–x (110): Dissociation, Motion, and Vacancy Healing. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (27) , 14876-14887. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp500771d
Max García-Melchor and Núria López . Homolytic Products from Heterolytic Paths in H2 Dissociation on Metal Oxides: The Example of CeO2. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (20) , 10921-10926. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp502309r
Wanglai Cen, Yue Liu, Zhongbiao Wu, Jie Liu, Haiqiang Wang, and Xiaole Weng . Cl Species Transformation on CeO2(111) Surface and Its Effects on CVOCs Catalytic Abatement: A First-Principles Investigation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (13) , 6758-6766. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp411532b
Glen R. Jenness and J. R. Schmidt . Unraveling the Role of Metal–Support Interactions in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Oxygenate Selectivity in Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis. ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (12) , 2881-2890. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs4006277
XiaoYing Sun, Bo Li, and Horia Metiu . Ethane Activation by Nb-Doped NiO. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2013, 117 (45) , 23597-23608. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp402980d
Matthew A. Christiansen, Giannis Mpourmpakis, and Dionisios G. Vlachos . Density Functional Theory-Computed Mechanisms of Ethylene and Diethyl Ether Formation from Ethanol on γ-Al2O3(100). ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (9) , 1965-1975. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs4002833
Yang-Gang Wang, Yeohoon Yoon, Vassiliki-Alexandra Glezakou, Jun Li, and Roger Rousseau . The Role of Reducible Oxide–Metal Cluster Charge Transfer in Catalytic Processes: New Insights on the Catalytic Mechanism of CO Oxidation on Au/TiO2 from ab Initio Molecular Dynamics. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (29) , 10673-10683. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja402063v
Eric W. McFarland and Horia Metiu . Catalysis by Doped Oxides. Chemical Reviews 2013, 113 (6) , 4391-4427. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300418s
Stefano Prada, Livia Giordano, and Gianfranco Pacchioni . Charging of Gold Atoms on Doped MgO and CaO: Identifying the Key Parameters by DFT Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2013, 117 (19) , 9943-9951. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp401983m
XiaoYing Sun, Bo Li, and Horia Metiu . Methane Dissociation on Li-, Na-, K-, and Cu-Doped Flat and Stepped CaO(001). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2013, 117 (14) , 7114-7122. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp4002803
Mónica García-Mota, Aleksandra Vojvodic, Frank Abild-Pedersen, and Jens K. Nørskov . Electronic Origin of the Surface Reactivity of Transition-Metal-Doped TiO2(110). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2013, 117 (1) , 460-465. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp310667r
Anna Ivanovskaya, Nirala Singh, Ru-Fen Liu, Haley Kreutzer, Jonas Baltrusaitis, Trung Van Nguyen, Horia Metiu, and Eric McFarland . Transition Metal Sulfide Hydrogen Evolution Catalysts for Hydrobromic Acid Electrolysis. Langmuir 2013, 29 (1) , 480-492. https://doi.org/10.1021/la3032489
Fernando Stavale, Xiang Shao, Niklas Nilius, Hans-Joachim Freund, Stefano Prada, Livia Giordano, and Gianfranco Pacchioni . Donor Characteristics of Transition-Metal-Doped Oxides: Cr-Doped MgO versus Mo-Doped CaO. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2012, 134 (28) , 11380-11383. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja304497n
Isabela-Costinela Man, Ionut Tranca. Trends in the oxygen adsorption energy derived from the thermodynamic potential model for the oxygen evolution reaction. Catalysis Today 2025, 443 , 114963. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2024.114963
Boyuan Feng, Shuzhen Li, Long Zhang, Guizhen Zhang, Ge Chen. Frustrated Lewis pairs on Al-doped CeO2 for efficient reverse water–gas shift reaction. Applied Surface Science 2024, 669 , 160515. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2024.160515
Eugenio F. Souza. Role of oxygen vacancies in CO2 methanation over zirconia: A mechanistic DFT and microkinetic study. Surface Science 2024, 746 , 122500. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2024.122500
Muhammad Jawad Ahmad, Xue Lu, Liye Liang, Guangming Li. Preparation of N‐doped Co/NC‐CeO 2 ‐hmta by pyrolysis of Co‐Ce‐Salen/hmta toward hydrogenation of nitroarenes under N 2 H 4. Applied Organometallic Chemistry 2024, 38 (8) https://doi.org/10.1002/aoc.7556
Mueataz G. Thabet, Mohd. Aslam, Prashant Singh, Giribala M. Bondle. Silica-Supported Bi2O3-Cr2O3 Nanocomposite: Efficient Catalyst for Pyrano[3,2-c]chromenes Synthesis and DFT Studies. Journal of Molecular Structure 2024, 116 , 139624. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2024.139624
Load more citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
The Journal of Physical Chemistry C
Cite this: J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 19, 10439–10450
https://doi.org/10.1021/jp301341t
Published March 20, 2012
Copyright © 2012 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
7883
Altmetric
3
Citations
301
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis
March 24, 2022ACS Catalysis
Mona Abdelgaid and Giannis Mpourmpakis*
The concept of Lewis acids and bases applied to surfaces
May 1, 2002Journal of the American Chemical Society
P. C. Stair
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Side view of the structure formed by the dissociative adsorption of methane on O2 adsorbed on Zr-doped CaO(001). The dissociation fragments bind to the oxygen atoms of the O2 molecule adsorbed on Zr. Ca is green; oxygen is red; Zr is blue; C is gray; and H is white. The dissociation is exothermic, and the reaction energy is −0.84 eV. (b) Structure in (a) seen from above.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Side view of the structure formed by the dissociation of methane on Zr-doped CaO(001). Unlike Figure 1, here the H atom formed by dissociation binds to an oxygen atom from the surface. The CH3 radical forms a methoxide with one of the oxygen atoms adsorbed on the Zr dopant. Ca is green; oxygen is red; Zr is blue; C is gray; and hydrogen is white. The dissociation is exothermic, and the reaction energy is −0.91 eV. (b) Structure in (a) seen from above.
Figure 3
Figure 3. NiO(011) doped with NbO2 which was obtained by replacing a surface Ni atom with Nb and then adsorbing an O2 molecule on Nb. The NbO2 group replaces a Ni atom, and it acts as a LVD (it is a Lewis acid). Because of this, the oxygen atoms marked A and B are easier to remove, to make oxygen vacancies, than in the case of the undoped oxide. Ni is purple; the oxygen in the top layer is red; the oxygen in the second layer is yellow; the oxygen adsorbed on Nb is dark blue; and Nb is light blue.