Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting boron's catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in B-MWW zeolite are inactive, whereas defect boron sites, especially aggregated species, activate propane's CH bonds effectively. Aggregated BOx species' BOH groups, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, with low crystallinity enhancing activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. Spatial proximities between B and H species are revealed by 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectra. FTIR identifies framework boron species under vacuum at various temperatures. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with reversibility into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D wash-coated cordierite monoliths with B2O3 loading achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B into zeolite frameworks results in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. They exhibit predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. BO3 species, identified as active sites, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, along with the enhanced gas trapping capacity of h-BN, promotes the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN monolithic foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion. Using boric acid as the B precursor on CNFs yields the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, shows high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, enhancing mass transfer and active site exposure. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion isn't limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, demonstrating high catalytic efficiency. Propene selectivity notably increases, improving production by up to 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 is strategically deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions increase propane's reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating catalytic performance enhancement. Preparing embryonic borosilicate zeolites effectively incorporates B active components for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure, enhanced by tertiary aggregation, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, crucial for catalytic applications. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units, but this material shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that propane ODH does not proceed over isolated BO3 sites; instead, active boron-based ODH catalysts require boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN's high olefin selectivity in propane ODH highlights its catalytic advantage over metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, specifically N2 plasma, induces more defects, enhancing catalytic activity. O2-BN and N2-BN, with similar B/N ratios, showed comparable catalytic conversion (27.3% and 26.0%, respectively). However, O2-BN's low activity is attributed to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite having a higher oxygen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and structural stability during ODH. The interconnected macropores, bridged by 80 nm channels, facilitate mass transfer and enhance catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, leading to improved yield. The BPO4(OM) catalyst maintains unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, with retained tri-coordinated boron species post-reaction, as confirmed by XRD, FTIR, NMR, and XPS measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and propane partial pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that the methods used to incorporate B active components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being crucial for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species, unlike isolated B(OSi)3 units, efficiently activate propane's CH bonds. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis and boron leaching. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectroscopy confirm the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination, which are crucial for catalysis. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and is reversible to SiOB linkage. Hydroxyl groups are essential for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without a zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving high olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate synthesized with a hard template method also show high activity and selectivity for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, as seen in the BN@BPO4 foam (Quote 1). The foam's double-layered, face-to-face opening structure facilitates catalytic activity (Quote 2). Adjusting the amount of Cu(NO3)2 additives can control the opening size, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production (Quote 3). The generated h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment foam, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures (Quote 4). Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor show the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are superior due to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and the abundance of OH groups. Well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber structure boosts catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, with h-BN loading positively impacting propane conversion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociative adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. This sustains propene selectivity, increasing from 17% to 28%, while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding to the CNT structure, providing thermal stability and acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis uniformly disperses and stabilizes boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limits, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkane ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron into porous frameworks, crucial for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit uniform boron dispersion and high catalytic activity. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm SiO2's amorphous nature and B2O3's high dispersion. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation, unlike PBSN-3, which has higher propylene selectivity. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene with oxygen. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and catalytic activity. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making B2O3@BPO4 a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The unique structure of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is an emerging trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. Despite B2O3's melting point posing a challenge, its low volatility and high melting point make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a controlled boron oxide speciation, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, but shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene. This inactivity falsifies the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site in boron-based catalysts. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions makes it difficult to identify the active site(s). Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms that B-MWW contains primarily framework species, with boron existing predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require boron species with some degree of B-O-B connectivity, as evidenced by the lack of catalytic activity in B-MWW, which is stable under reaction conditions without restructuring of the boron atoms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica (BOS catalyst) shows remarkable selectivity in ODH of propane. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions, as demonstrated by a 3-D ordered macroporous material achieving 91.5% selectivity for olefins at 515°C. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, effectively tailor these materials for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown exceptional olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity due to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric and phosphoric acids, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with the content increasing from 41% to 51% after use, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency. The framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns before and after the reaction. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species and the interconnected macropores contribute to the remarkable catalytic performance and yield improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure, indicating the critical role of these factors in catalytic activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods of B active components into these structures can affect catalytic performance, with effectiveness depending on specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, being crucial for CH bond activation. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen bonded to adjacent silanols, are the active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity enrich these defect sites, enhancing activity and olefin productivity. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups are highly efficient for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic methods like HETCOR and FTIR confirm the presence of isolated boron species with specific coordination in the framework. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse to SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms hydroxyl groups' importance. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures also boosts reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, also show high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with some interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required higher temperatures due to more energetic demands on primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, crucial for h-BN production. h-BN monolithic foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal. Precise control of gas trapping in the B2O3 environment foam facilitates the oriented opening of bowl-like structures, demonstrating the effectiveness of B incorporation methods for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effectiveness influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods effectively incorporate B active components for enhanced catalytic applications, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups, formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. The electrospinning method allows for easy adjustment of nanofiber properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitated dispersion in aqueous solution. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN due to the one-dimensional structure, which exposed active sites for higher conversion. The SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promoted h-BN anchoring and dispersity, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The h-BN loading influenced propane conversion, proving that conversion was not limited by molecular diffusion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity was remarkably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings, demonstrating high catalytic efficiency. Propene selectivity notably increases, achieving maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. These structural features of B-based materials in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving mass transfer. Preparation methods, like that of embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations, guaranteeing high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene when oxygen and ethane are introduced. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, facilitates efficient mass transfer and increases the number of active sites. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their eco-friendly properties and low cost. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, surpassing metal oxides. N2 plasma treatment on BN creates more N-defects, enhancing catalytic activity, as evidenced by 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects facilitate propane conversion. N2-BN shows a blue-shifted peak and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating in-plane strain strengthening and interlayer interaction weakening. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity due to the balance between B/N ratio increase and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction. The improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significantly enhanced yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies show that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, indicating the crucial role of pore structure and B2O3 loading in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, identified as the active center for efficient CH bond activation at low temperatures. Isolated B(OSi)3 units are inactive, whereas defect boron sites enhance catalytic activity. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites with hydrogen-bonded silanols.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions due to BOSiOx linkages, ensuring durability. FTIR and 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectra reveal spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope labeling. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl species. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area and porous framework, as seen in BN@BPO4 monolithic foam. The foam's double-layer structure with face-to-face openings can be fine-tuned by adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking pores. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and B precursor type. Using boric acid as a precursor maximizes selectivity at isoconversion. The literature lacks detailed evaluation of incorporation methods for B active components, but highlights their effectiveness in enhancing catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, using SiO2 as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing catalytic activity and conversion. Stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. The catalyst's efficiency under high space velocity conditions is due to enhanced mass transfer, allowing easy exposure of active sites. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating molecular diffusion is not a limiting factor. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings of 0.003wt%, demonstrating catalytic activity. Propene selectivity notably increases, while the reaction rate slightly decreases, optimizing propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, enhances catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates propane activation through enhanced gas-phase reactions, demonstrating the effectiveness of B-based materials in porous frameworks for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron components into porous frameworks, beneficial for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements, as shown by TEM and XRD analysis. SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but react when oxygen is present, with a reaction order of oxygen approaching 0.5, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcases enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and porous framework. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method of incorporating B active components is effective for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially for propane dehydrogenation, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of the sandwich-like hollow sphere structure. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic roles when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. This leads to the conclusion that the ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but likely requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. A B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere demonstrated stability and high selectivity in propane ODH, converting propane to propylene and ethylene with minimal CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN, with 3-D dispersed active sites, excels in propane ODH due to high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieves 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, creating more N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion. The low activity of O2-BN is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas; H2-BN's low activity may be due to B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from the balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability, evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction, supports the catalyst's durability. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significantly enhanced yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, suggesting that methods of B incorporation can significantly affect catalytic performance for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites crucial for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species, unlike isolated units, efficiently activate propane's CH bonds. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhanced by the BOSiOx linkage that hinders hydrolysis and leaching, ensuring durability. The spatial proximity of B and H species in BS-1, identified by 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR, supports catalysis. Boron sites in MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework. B-MWW's monohydroxyl boron sites indicate the importance of dihydroxyl species for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, enhance catalytic performance by providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components onto surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D active sites. For instance, h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting low-temperature activity and propene selectivity. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics allow high B loading, up to 10 wt %, and exhibit excellent olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production. These examples highlight the effectiveness of 3-D structures in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. Their type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm indicates predominantly microporous structure with some mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring a higher temperature range for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, aiding oriented bowl-like structure opening. High-temperature-prepared h-BN foam with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's unique interaction with porous frameworks, such as not plugging but covering pore walls, increases surface area and pore volume, enhancing catalytic performance. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and B precursor type. Using boric acid as a precursor yields the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, shows high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, and the interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. SiO2 support enhances stability and h-BN dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading affects propane conversion linearly, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At just 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalently bonded, thermally stable structure that resists oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, increasing propane activation and reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. Preparation methods, like creating defect-rich embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm SiO2's amorphous nature and B2O3's high dispersion. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. Oxygen and ethane mixture triggers ethylene formation. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 suggests surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving reactant diffusion. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the material's excellent catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating productivity up to 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. The melting point of B2O3 and its viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its sandwich-like hollow sphere structure, maximizes the utilization of planar supports and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that the ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica (BOS) improves catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, effectively tailor these materials for specific catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for catalysis. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. Despite similar B/N ratios, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN showed decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and increasing active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template, the BPO4 exhibits an inverse replica structure with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH. The interconnected macropores, bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels, facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) catalyst maintains unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, with an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction, evidencing its structural stability. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "The catalytic performance of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks is influenced by the pore structure, spatial confinement of boron sites, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure. The formation rate of propylene decreases with the confinement of active boron sites, indicating the importance of pore structure. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is affected by these factors, highlighting their role in catalytic activity and selectivity. Incorporating B active components into these structures for different applications may depend on specific pore structures and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating CH bonds more efficiently than isolated ones. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are critical for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, showing that low crystallinity enhances activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhanced by the BOSiOx linkage which hinders hydrolysis and boosts durability. Inert for some reactions, isolated boron in BS-1 zeolite is highly active for ODHP. Spectroscopic methods reveal spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. Hydrolysis forms active B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, reversible to SiOB linkage, confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The BOSiOx linkage provides necessary active species while hindering dissolution. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl species. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, offer numerous sites for B species and regulate radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb catalysts with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Zeolites doped with B species exhibit high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized via a hard template method, has rich pores and high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to more demanding primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic, environmental, and energy storage applications. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control for bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing higher propene selectivities for B-doped CNFs compared to pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the creation of a well-structured catalyst with straight channels for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, are the source of catalytic activity. The dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are superior due to SiO2 support anchoring and h-BN's well-dispersed nature. Higher propane conversion in h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts is attributed to the one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. The catalyst's productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 under 500C and high space velocity conditions is significantly higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at low loadings, indicating high catalytic efficiency. Propene selectivity notably rises, with productivity peaking at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a thin coating on the outer surface, ensuring good thermal stability and covalent bonding, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through effective incorporation methods like embryonic zeolite preparation, suitable for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional PBSN nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron components, crucial for catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements, confirmed by TEM and XRD. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene when oxygen is introduced. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure, featuring tertiary aggregation, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, yet this material is inactive for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW was synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy revealed boron species as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, offers a high surface area for active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, effectively integrate B components for various catalytic applications, improving heat and mass transfer, essential for industrialization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, showcasing superior olefin selectivity over metal oxides. N2 plasma treatment on BN enhances catalytic activity, achieving 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects as pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. Despite similar B/N ratios, O2-BN's low activity is attributed to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN exhibit decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and the compromised effect of B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability during ODH is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, as well as an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species in the catalysts leads to a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "The pore structure of supports, loading of B2O3, and propane partial pressure significantly influence the catalytic performance of B-based materials. Spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support are critical for catalytic activity. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, indicating that the methods used to incorporate B active components affect catalytic activity and selectivity. This suggests that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components for different catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, enhancing CH bond activation and catalytic efficiency. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are crucial for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting synthesis conditions, enrich these active sites, boosting olefin productivity and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid atmospheres due to BOSiOx linkages. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms hydroxyl groups' importance. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for efficient mass transport and high catalytic activity, and 3-D B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving high B loading and excellent olefin selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, and the 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, both show excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonally and tetrahedrally coordinated boron, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance and environmental remediation due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from numerous oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double layer structure with face-to-face openings, adjustable by Cu(NO3)2 additives for h-BN production. h-BN enhances gas trapping capacity, favoring oriented openings. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrates excellent catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The type of B precursor and calcination temperature affect B speciation and catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor show the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, using SiO2 as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. At low B2O3 loading, the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, excelling in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. OH groups of SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity at 500°C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, thus improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates propane activation, enhancing catalytic performance. Preparation methods for these zeolites are suitable for various catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis uniformly disperses and stabilizes boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkane ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron components, crucial for catalytic applications like ethane and propane ODH. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit uniform boron dispersion and high catalytic activity. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and highly dispersed B2O3 in PBSNs, unlike aggregated B2O3 in B2O3/gel catalysts. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, achieving high productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, overcoming the challenges of traditional catalyst preparation. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their cost-effectiveness and eco-friendliness. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of B-based materials in high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active B-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites likely require some degree of B-O-B connectivity. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms the presence of isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups in B-MWW, which are insufficient for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica boosts catalytic ability. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, are effective for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects were pivotal in propane conversion. N2 plasma induced more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN had similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN's low activity may result from B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity could be due to the balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits a robust framework with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH of propane. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which ranges from 1 to 3. This indicates that methods used to incorporate B components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    