Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, enhancing CH bond activation. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are critical for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in a zeolite framework without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkage preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic evidence from 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR confirms the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites in the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D B2O3@BPO4 composites exhibit high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, indicating predominantly micropores and some mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 for trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, requiring a higher temperature for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, featuring bowl-like structures, offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment aids in hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production, enhancing gas trapping capacity for precise pressure control, favoring oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess multimodal hierarchically porous structures, excelling in catalytic activities and environmental remediation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's unique role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. The selectivity is influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor, with boric acid yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, while electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed superior stability and higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN, attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promoting h-BN dispersity. The one-dimensional structure facilitated active site exposure, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The h-BN loading influenced propane conversion linearly, indicating conversion was not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibited remarkable productivity in the ODHP reaction, outperforming most reported boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 dissociative adsorption. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding that acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. These B-based materials' structural features enhance catalytic performance, providing more active sites and improved mass transfer. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in PBSN catalysts, which are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, showing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis method avoids the tedious process of removing templates and adding active sites, making the best use of hollow sphere structures. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites in active materials under reaction conditions makes precise identification of active sites challenging. Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, lacks catalytic activity, indicating that framework species are inactive for propane ODH. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy characterizes boron species as trigonal-planar, with B(OSi)3 units predominant. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions. N2-treated BN exhibits 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, facilitated by three-boron center N-defects. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum in N2-BN. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, respectively, influenced by the B/N ratio and specific surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% after the reaction, indicating their role in catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) catalyst maintains unchanged macropore sizes and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction, confirming its structural stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies show that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by these factors, indicating the crucial role of pore structure and B2O3 loading in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites crucial for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species outperform isolated ones in propane activation, with BOH groups in aggregated BOx species acting as active centers at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP, revealing that low crystallinity enhances activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization enriches defect boron sites, hydrogen-bonded to silanols, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum of dehydrated BS-1 reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites in MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkage. Isotope-labeled experiments confirm hydroxyl groups' importance. This feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group but lacks detectable B[OHO(H)-Si]2 species, supporting dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. For instance, h-BN/cordierite catalysts with a 3-D straight-channel structure achieved 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchored boron oxide active sites, boosting low-temperature activity and propene selectivity. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, showed excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, achieving 20% conversion and 70% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized hydrothermally, exhibit type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, indicating predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirm boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, particularly hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), improves gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, specifically boosting propene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Boron loading and calcination temperature affect B speciation and catalytic conversion, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest propene selectivity at equal conversion rates. The literature lacks detailed methods for B incorporation, but highlights its effectiveness in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 serves as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with the help of steam, suggesting that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework increases active sites for reactions and improves catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to their one-dimensional structure, facilitating active site exposure and substance transmission. These catalysts achieved a 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with an olefins productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, surpassing bulk ODHP catalysts by over 5 times. The electrospinning method allows for easy adjustment of chemical and physical properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN, with abundant BOH groups, disperses well in aqueous solutions, while SiO2 support anchors and disperses h-BN, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The h-BN loading directly impacts propane conversion, proving that conversion is not limited by molecular diffusion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity under high temperatures and space velocities is notably higher than most reported boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite with defective sites and large porosity, enhance catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of boron sites in open coordination, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, activating propane more effectively. Incorporation methods, such as the preparation of embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly for propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron into the porous framework, beneficial for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning. The one-dimensional nanofiber structure prevents diffusion limitation and ensures high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts show higher olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during ODH of propane. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination. TEM images show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed into the chamber. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the catalyst's excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and high stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, yet the material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, contains primarily framework species as shown by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks propane ODH activity, indicating the need for boron species with B-O-B connectivity for catalytic performance. Active B-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, are developed for ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, is synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, enhances catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3/SBA-15 catalyst showed remarkable selectivity in propane ODH, and a B2O3@BPO4 hollow sphere remained stable with high propylene selectivity in liquid-phase propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is pivotal in propane's ODH to propylene due to its superior olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, enhances defect creation, affecting catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash, with similar B/N ratios, showed comparable catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas, with H2-BN's low activity linked to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity attributed to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability and accessibility, leading to improved catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The structural stability is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and an identical XRD pattern before and after the catalytic reaction. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by various spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane significantly influence the apparent propane reaction order, which can vary from 1 to 3, indicating the crucial role of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications can be more effective when tailored to specific pore structures and B2O3 loadings, as demonstrated by the impact on propane reaction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, enhancing CH bond activation. Aggregated BOx species' BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are active for low-temperature ODHP. Low-crystallinity BMFI zeolites, enriched with hydrogen-bonded defect boron sites, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis of BS-1 reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms hydroxyl groups' importance. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for efficient mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic achieving high olefin selectivity. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate and h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores show excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron insertion into the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 indicating trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area and porous framework. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment is critical for h-BN production, which improves gas trapping capacity and controls pressure differentials, favoring the oriented opening of the bowl-like structure. Pure h-BN monolithic foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with the highest selectivity achieved using boric acid as the precursor. The type of B precursor and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high gas velocity, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to their one-dimensional structure, which facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission. The electrospinning method allows for easy adjustment of nanofiber properties and ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, promoting activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN, with abundant BOH groups, disperses well in aqueous solutions, and the SiO2 support's OH groups enhance h-BN anchoring and dispersity. The nanofiber catalyst demonstrates higher propane conversion and olefins productivity (24.9golefinsgBN1h1) than bulk h-BN catalysts, attributed to the one-dimensional structure and SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst improves catalytic efficiency by enhancing mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively affects propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not limited by molecular diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings of 0.003wt%, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity notably rises, improving production efficiency, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bond that enhances thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, boosting catalytic performance. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, effectively incorporate B components for various catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, with 100-150 nm diameter nanofibers, prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSNs exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in some catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen reaction order suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure, enhanced by a tertiary aggregation phenomenon, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, crucial for catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics with second-order rate dependence on propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that the ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts selectivity in propane ODH. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in propane ODH. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, effectively tailor these materials for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has gained attention in propane ODH due to its high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN showed 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, creating more N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas; H2-BN's low activity may be due to B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from the balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent catalysts. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, compared to 22 m2/g for bulk BPO4. The framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, impacting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. This suggests that methods of B incorporation affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with pore structure and B2O3 loading playing crucial roles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites, as active catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlight the catalytic activity of boron centers. Defect boron sites, particularly aggregated species, are more efficient in propane CH bond activation than isolated units. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as the active center for low-temperature ODHP catalysis. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectra reveal spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites within MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D wash-coated cordierite monoliths with B2O3 loading achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B species into zeolite frameworks results in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications, confirming boron's insertion into the framework via FT-IR spectra. The zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, and defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, combined with h-BN, improves gas trapping and pressure control, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal, showcasing the effectiveness of B-based materials in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's unique interaction with porous frameworks, such as covering pore walls without blocking them, increases surface area and pore volume, enhancing catalytic performance. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs, influenced by B precursor type and calcination temperature. The effectiveness of incorporation methods for various catalytic applications is not fully explored, but boric acid as a precursor yields the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, feature SiO2 as a media layer bridging cordierite substrate and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, excelling in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, demonstrates good oxidation resistance at high temperatures, making it a potential catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability, with catalytic activity attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. This suggests that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites for reactions and improving catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability through anchoring. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, possibly due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows superior productivity compared to most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, serve as effective catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, crucial for ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, enhancing propane activation and increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like that of embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are vital for incorporating B components and improving catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. The method ensures uniform boron distribution, critical for catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. PBSN catalysts, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with oxygen, indicating molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow spheres, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to their 3-D dispersed active sites and porous framework. The unique structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing the number of active sites and improving reactant diffusion. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the composite's excellent catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts in activity, selectivity, and stability, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications. The synthesis process involves primary and secondary particle aggregations, Ostwald ripening, and an additional tertiary aggregation, leading to the formation of the sandwich-like hollow sphere structure. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. Dynamic boron sites in catalytically active materials restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. Active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, outperforming metal oxides. N2 plasma treatment on BN enhances catalytic activity, achieving 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects as key facilitators of propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios, with comparable catalytic conversion under identical conditions. However, O2-BN's low activity is attributed to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and altered B/N ratios, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates. The resulting structure, with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by up to 2100 times. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for ODH, increased from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, while the bulk counterpart has 22 m2 g-1. The framework exhibits excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, and improving kinetic diffusion to reactive sites, leading to higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, indicating the importance of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporation methods of B active components into these structures can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, depending on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites, as active catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlight the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species for enhanced catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in zeolite frameworks are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Preparation of boron-containing MFI-type zeolite (BMFI) catalysts with varied crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, leading to superior catalytic activity and olefin productivity, especially in low crystallinity catalysts. This enrichment, facilitated by incomplete crystallization, is critical for the superior catalytic performance of BMFI catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. FTIR identifies framework boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports dihydroxyl boron species. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 structures were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane required a higher temperature range for similar reactions, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, making them suitable for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by varying Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment is crucial for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production, which improves gas trapping capacity in the liquid B2O3 environment, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrates a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, excelling in catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron incorporation into porous frameworks, such as carbon nanofibers (CNFs), enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of CNFs boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing that B-doped CNFs outperform pristine CNFs in selectivity at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and B2O3, facilitating the incorporation of boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, enhancing mass transfer and active site exposure. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving conversion isn't diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity under 500°C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings of 0.003wt%, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This leads to a significant increase in propene selectivity and improved production, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions increase propane activation, boosting reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. Preparation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation are effective for various catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform boron dispersion on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. 1D nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning produces 100-150 nm PBSNs with uniform boron distribution, preventing diffusion limitations and ensuring high catalytic activity. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel, with molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This structure enhances catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation at high temperatures (>450 C), with melted B2O3 acting as an active species. The B2O3@BPO4 composite shows excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially when supported by a suitable material like BPO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions makes precise identification of active sites challenging. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms that B-MWW contains primarily framework species, with boron existing predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites likely require some degree of B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves surface area and active site exposure. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica boosts catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN shows structural changes, including a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and the compromise between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with their content increasing from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction. The interconnected macropores, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the high specific surface area (75 m2/g) of BPO4(OM) compared to BPO4(bulk) (22 m2/g) facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure, impacting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. These factors play crucial roles in the catalytic activity and selectivity of B-based materials, suggesting that specific incorporation methods can optimize performance for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites, as active catalysts in ODHP, highlight the importance of defect boron sites over isolated B(OSi)3 units for catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as the active center for efficient CH bond activation at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions, enrich defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. This reveals that incomplete crystallization is key to enriching active boron sites, crucial for superior catalytic performance in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. Spectroscopic techniques reveal spatial proximities between B and H species and identify framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups confirmed as crucial by isotope-labeled experiments. This feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight-channel structures for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic performance and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, crucial for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, has a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effects dependent on boron loading and calcination temperature. CNFs modified with boric acid as a precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, using SiO2 as a media layer between cordierite substrate and B2O3. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, at low B2O3 loading, exhibits high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more reaction sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The electrospinning method prepared one-dimensional h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional structures facilitate active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The electrospinning process allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion in aqueous solution. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN dispersity and stability. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's efficiency increases, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity under 500C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. This effect is observed even at a low 0.003wt% loading, demonstrating catalytic activity from a small fraction of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity increases significantly, while the reaction rate decreases slightly, improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, indicating covalent bonding to the CNT structure, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite with 3-D dispersed active sites and large porosity, enhance catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open coordination boron sites from the defect-rich structure, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, increasing propane activation and reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating the effectiveness of B incorporation methods for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure, unlike B2O3/gel which allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are mixed. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This unique structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions in active materials complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, with a sufficient boron loading, lacks catalytic activity, indicating that framework species are inactive for propane ODH. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms that boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN's synthesis methods increase surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide's rhombohedral phase and boron oxide's BO3-triangles network contribute to catalytic activity. Boron phosphate's robust framework improves activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications. A B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere was stable for 27 h at 550 C with high propylene selectivity, demonstrating the effectiveness of B-based materials in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects were pivotal in propane conversion. N2 plasma induced more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. Despite similar B/N ratios, O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN had decreased surface areas, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency. The framework's structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, supports its effectiveness. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significantly enhanced yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure, loading of B2O3, and propane partial pressure, impacting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This suggests that the methods used to incorporate B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with pore structure playing a crucial role in the performance and kinetics of boron oxide supported on silica with different pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, being crucial for activity. Aggregated boron species, especially BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are efficient for propane activation at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, showing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis under vacuum reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites in MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkage. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity, and B-MWW with monohydroxyl boron sites supports dihydroxyl boron species, which are undetectable in B[OHO(H)-Si]2 forms.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improve molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area and porous framework, as seen in BN@BPO4 monolithic foam. The size of face-to-face openings can be adjusted using Cu(NO3)2 additives, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foam, facilitating oriented bowl-like structure openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type affect catalytic conversion and selectivity, with boric acid yielding the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a potential catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, surpassing bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable chemical and physical properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and SiO2 support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support's anchoring effect boosts stability. OH groups of SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers improves catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. Increasing h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts achieve high productivity under 500C and high space velocity, outperforming most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, demonstrating high catalytic efficiency. Propene selectivity notably increases, improving production by up to 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, showcasing the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, guaranteeing high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron into porous frameworks, beneficial for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. Open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination. TEM images show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene with oxygen and ethane. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, facilitates efficient mass transfer and provides numerous active sites. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the stability and activity of the catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of nonmetal catalysts in high-temperature applications. The exploitation of B2O3, with its melting point of 450°C and changing viscosity, is an important research trend due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its sandwich-like hollow sphere structure, maximizes the utilization of planar supports and is a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation are needed. B-MWW was synthesized and characterized, showing boron predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, effectively tailor these materials for specific catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induced more defects in BN, enhancing catalytic activity. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN showed similar catalytic conversion (27.3% and 26.0%, respectively) under identical conditions, despite O2-BN's lower activity due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent catalysts, indicating their role in ODH. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The structural stability and active sites' retention post-reaction, as confirmed by XRD, FTIR, NMR, and XPS measurements, further support the catalytic advantages of BPO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3. Studies show that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by the pore structure of supports, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, indicating that these factors play crucial roles in the catalytic activity and selectivity of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    