Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being key for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species outperform isolated ones in CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Lower crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and boron leaching in humid conditions. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species, indicating that hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The B-MWW structure supports dihydroxyl boron species, and the zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving excellent olefin selectivity. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. Structural analysis via N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms revealed predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron incorporation, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 indicating trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic, environmental, and energy storage applications. BN@BPO4 foam, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, has adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating h-BN production. h-BN improves gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type affect B speciation and catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer, bridging cordierite substrate and boron oxide, while honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high gas velocity, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These characteristics make the incorporation methods effective for catalytic applications, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, exemplified by silicon boride, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Silicon boride, rich in boron sites, shows good oxidation resistance at high temperatures, making it a potential catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that dispersed boron sites in porous structures increase active sites for reactions and improve catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, surpassing bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable chemical and physical properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. SiO2 support enhances stability and h-BN dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading affects propane conversion linearly, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The catalyst's productivity under 500C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, enhancing propene selectivity to 28% at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. The majority of amorphous B2O3 is deposited in the cavity and on the tips of CNTs, with good thermal stability indicating covalent bonding to the CNT structure, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, are effective for catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis uniformly disperses and stabilizes boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning creates 100-150 nm porous boron-doped silica nanofibers, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. Open pore structures in nanofibers guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination. TEM images reveal a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen and ethane mixture triggers ethylene formation. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This structure facilitates efficient mass transfer and increases the number of active sites, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties compared to metal-based catalysts. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of stable and active catalysts. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. Despite B-MWW's isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, it shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the precise active site. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, such as h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4's robust framework boosts activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications, as demonstrated by the B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere catalyst, which remained stable and highly selective in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN's high olefin selectivity in propane ODH contrasts with metal oxides, as shown by N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN relative to BN, indicating strain strengthening and weakened interlayer interaction. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "BPO4, synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric and phosphoric acids with polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, forms an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. This structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, has a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transport and accessibility of tri-coordinated boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The content of these active sites increases from 41% to 51% after reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected macropores facilitate mass transfer, improving catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, ranging from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, indicating the crucial role of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporation methods of B active components into these structures can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with effectiveness varying based on specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, proving more active than isolated species. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are identified as active centers for low-temperature ODHP. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions regulates crystallinity, with less crystalline catalysts showing superior activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions due to BOSiOx linkages, ensuring durability. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D wash-coated cordierite catalysts with B2O3 loading achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template, has rich pores and high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal BO3 structures identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. The incorporation of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) improves gas trapping capacity, aiding in the precise control of pressure differentials for optimized structure orientation. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess multimodal hierarchically porous structures, demonstrating superior catalytic activity and environmental remediation capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer, bonding cordierite substrate and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, showcasing its effectiveness for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, surpassing bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure, crucial for catalysis. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperformed bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity, the well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst improved catalytic efficiency by enhancing mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, indicating diffusion was not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity was notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This leads to a significant increase in propene selectivity and improved production, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, boosting catalytic performance. Preparation methods for these zeolites are suitable for various catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on an open silica fiber framework, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The method ensures boron's uniform distribution, preventing diffusion limitations and guaranteeing high catalytic activity. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel, with the presence of SiOH groups affecting propylene selectivity during propane ODH. The catalysts are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination, showing a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel, with ethylene formation observed when oxygen and ethane are introduced. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of nonmetal catalysts in high-temperature applications. The exploitation of B2O3, with its melting point of 450°C and changing viscosity, is an important research trend due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its sandwich-like hollow sphere structure, maximizes the utilization of planar supports and follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. However, B-MWW, with isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, contradicting the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions in active catalysts like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, which restructure, suggests that active sites require B-O-B connectivity. This conclusion is supported by spectroscopic characterization and computational studies, indicating that the precise identification of active sites is challenging due to the dynamic nature of boron species. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are necessary.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, have been developed for enhanced catalytic applications. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer in ODH reactions. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica (BOS catalyst) exhibits remarkable selectivity in propane ODH. A three-dimensional ordered macroporous BPO4 material shows excellent activity and selectivity in propane ODH, with high olefin selectivity and low CO2 production. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has gained attention for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH over metal oxides. N2-treated BN showed 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, facilitated by three-boron center N-defects. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity due to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4(OM) exhibits interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter, which are beneficial for mass transfer and accessibility. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous structure and the presence of tri-coordinated boron species in the framework significantly improve catalytic performance in propane ODH, with olefin productivity up to 2100 times higher than reported ODH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, influencing the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that methods used to incorporate B into these structures can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure playing crucial roles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, being more active than isolated units. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are identified as the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. 2D HETCOR spectra reveal spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Isotope-labeled experiments confirm hydroxyl groups' importance. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport during reactions. Loading B active components on 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monolithic catalysts with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B species into zeolite frameworks creates a 3-D dispersion of B active sites, boosting activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some interstitial mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's presence in the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, crucial for h-BN production. h-BN monolithic foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal, demonstrating the effectiveness of B incorporation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The effectiveness of incorporation methods for various catalytic applications is not discussed. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor affect catalytic conversion and selectivity. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor showed the highest selectivity to propene at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are superior due to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and the abundance of OH groups. Well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber structure improves catalytic efficiency under high space velocity, and h-BN loading directly impacts propane conversion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species and enhancing catalytic performance. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Boron sites in open coordination, derived from the zeolite's defect-rich structure, ensure ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic performance enhancement of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, suitable for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron active components into the porous framework, beneficial for catalytic applications like the ODH of ethane and propane. PBSN catalysts, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination in air, showing a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed into the chamber. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both the ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcases enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides high loading capacity and efficient mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method of incorporating B active components is effective for high-temperature catalytic applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalysis, especially when supported by a suitable material. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is an emerging trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units, fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, yet this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but likely requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas; H2-BN's low activity is attributed to suppressed B-H species, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from the balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits a robust framework with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, resulting in a significantly improved yield. The content of tri-coordinated boron species, retained after the reaction, further supports their critical role in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the impact of pore structure on the spatial confinement of boron sites. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, indicating the crucial role of these factors in catalytic activity and selectivity. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components for different catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, as demonstrated by studies on boron oxide supported on silica with varying pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites, as active catalysts in ODHP, highlight the importance of defect boron sites over isolated B(OSi)3 units for catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups, are more efficient in propane activation and catalyzing ODHP at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions, enrich defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization is key to the superior catalytic performance of these zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. Spectroscopic methods reveal the presence of tetrahedral and trigonal boron species, which proceed to hydrolysis, forming B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups to boost catalysis. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the BOSiOx linkage hinders full hydrolysis and dissolution, enhancing durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, enhance catalytic performance by providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport. Incorporation methods include surface loading and framework doping. Examples like h-BN/cordierite monoliths, SBA-15 zeolite with boron oxide active sites, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics demonstrate enhanced mass transport and catalytic activity. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra reveal boron's presence in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic, environmental, and energy storage applications. BN@BPO4 foam, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, forms a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in B2O3 foam, controlling bubble pressure for oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, exhibits a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The type of B precursor and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion. The effectiveness of various incorporation methods for different catalytic applications is not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3, facilitating the creation of a structure with straight channels for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV). The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low B2O3 loading, achieves high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, demonstrating its effectiveness for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing active sites and stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving a 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows for adjustable chemical and physical properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for enhanced activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion, and the one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, contributing to higher conversion. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN dispersity and stability. Under high space velocity conditions, the nanofiber catalyst's efficiency is attributed to enhanced mass transfer and exposed active sites. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity under 500°C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, enhancing propene selectivity while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with minor outer surface coverage, indicating a covalent bonding to the CNT structure, providing thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, enhancing propane activation and increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. The method of preparing such zeolites is crucial for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesizes PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic stability and olefin selectivity in ODH of alkanes. 1D nanofibers prevent diffusion limits, ensuring high activity at high WHSV. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSN exhibits superior olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in PBSN may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination. TEM images show a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high B2O3 dispersion. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with oxygen, forming ethylene. Oxygen's reaction order suggests surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance. The phenomenon of tertiary aggregation during synthesis contributes to the stability and activity of the catalyst. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. This nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising eco-friendly alternative for high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of B2O3, with its low cost and high melting point, as a supported liquid-phase catalyst (SPLC) is an emerging research trend. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its unique structure and high catalytic activity, is a significant advancement in the field of metal-free catalysts for hydrocarbon conversions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, yet the material lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, contains primarily framework species as evidenced by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, its inactivity for propane ODH suggests that active boron-based ODH catalysts require aggregated boron sites with B-O-B connectivity, which restructure under reaction conditions, unlike the stable B-MWW. This highlights the importance of boron speciation for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves surface area and active site exposure. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts optimize heat and mass transfer. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized through multiple techniques. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN, with 3-D dispersed active sites, excels in propane ODH due to high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieves 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. Plasma treatment, especially N2 plasma, enhances catalytic activity by inducing more defects and creating N-defects, as evidenced by spectroscopy. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface area and activity, with H2-BN's low activity linked to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity attributed to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid, and monodisperse polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% after catalysis, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected macropores facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, leading to a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure of supports, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, highlighting the role of these factors in catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, offering insights into boron-containing catalysts' activity and construction of active boron centers. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in zeolite frameworks are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated boron species enhance CH bond activation and catalytic efficiency. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups are active for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering hydrolysis and leaching due to the BOSiOx linkage, ensuring durability. While inert for some reactions, isolated boron in BS-1 zeolite is highly active for ODHP. Spectroscopy reveals spatial proximities between B and H species and identifies framework boron species. Hydrolysis forms active B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, reversible to SiOB linkage, confirmed by isotope labeling. The BOSiOx linkage prevents full hydrolysis and dissolution, enhancing durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure boosts reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and influencing radical reaction behavior. The pore structure regulates mass transport during reactions. Loading B active components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalysts have a 3-D straight-channel structure that enhances mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalysts with B2O3 loading achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B species into zeolite frameworks creates a 3-D dispersion of B active sites, resulting in high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's presence in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous framework, and hollow space, making them suitable for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, has adjustable openings, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl opening. High-temperature preparation of pure h-BN foam results in a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. Using boric acid as the precursor maximizes propene selectivity at equal conversion rates. The text does not detail methods for B incorporation or their effectiveness for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, shows high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The electrospinning method prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitated dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperformed bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to active site exposure. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promoted h-BN anchoring and dispersity, enhancing stability and efficiency under high space velocity. h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, indicating diffusion was not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed superior productivity in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, thus improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Their abundant defective sites and large porosity provide ample active centers, as confirmed by solid-state NMR revealing boron sites in open coordination. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, increasing propane activation and the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. Incorporation methods, like the preparation of these zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis uniformly disperses and stabilizes boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, with 100-150 nm diameter nanofibers, prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high activity at high WHSV. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSN exhibits higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 outperforms B2O3/gel in propylene selectivity. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen is introduced. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests surface dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This structure enhances catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation, with melted B2O3 acting as an active species at high temperatures. The B2O3@BPO4 composite shows excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is a significant research trend. The melting point of B2O3 and its viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially when supported by a suitable material. The synthesis process involves primary and secondary aggregations, Ostwald ripening, and an additional tertiary aggregation, leading to the formation of the unique structure. The B2O3@BPO4 composite demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere catalyst showed stability and high propylene selectivity in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects are crucial for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios, with comparable catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN's low activity may result from B-H species suppression, despite a slightly increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid, and monodisperse polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The framework's structural stability during ODH, unchanged macropore sizes, and identical XRD patterns before and after reaction, contribute to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, varies from 1 to 3, indicating the importance of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporating B active components into these structures effectively for different catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, affecting activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, enabling exploration of boron's catalytic activity and construction of active centers. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in B-MWW zeolite are inactive, whereas defect boron sites, particularly aggregated species, enhance CH bond activation in propane. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, serve as the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis and boron leaching in humid conditions, ensuring durability. The framework's confinement effect and the presence of hydroxyl groups are critical for catalysis, as evidenced by the 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR results, which indicate the formation of B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups that enhance catalysis. The isotope-labeled experiment confirms the importance of hydroxyl groups, and the zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity, as shown by higher energy barriers in models without the framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading exhibit excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, enhancing molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows high activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. They exhibit type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, indicating micropores and minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 for trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) are active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane requires higher temperatures for similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic and environmental remediation potential. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, features a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor affect catalytic conversion and selectivity; boric acid as a precursor provides the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer, facilitating the connection between cordierite substrate and boron oxide. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These structural characteristics and incorporation methods are effective for catalytic applications, notably ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance catalytic performance due to active site exposure and substance transmission. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed superior propane conversion compared to bulk h-BN, attributed to the one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the well-dispersed h-BN in nanofibers exhibited better catalytic efficiency, enhancing mass transfer and active site exposure. The h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, proving that conversion is not limited by molecular diffusion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrated remarkable productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, outperforming most reported boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly boosting propene selectivity while slightly reducing the reaction rate, leading to improved propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, showcasing the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate preparation, are crucial for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional PBSN nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSNs exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning followed by calcination, have a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is about 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting surface dissociation of molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, yet shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/SiO2 and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that active sites require some degree of B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 units. Detailed characterization by multi-dimensional 1H and 11B SSNMR spectroscopy confirms boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups in B-MWW.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a robust framework. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a continuous 3-D framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere catalyst showed stability and high C3H6 productivity in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26% conversion and 89.4% selectivity. N-defects in the catalyst are crucial for propane conversion. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects in BN, enhancing catalytic activity. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and altered B/N ratios, affecting their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% after the reaction, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, resulting in a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is affected by the pore structure of supports, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, highlighting the critical role of these factors in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, being more active than isolated units. These aggregated BOH groups in BOx species activate propane's CH bonds efficiently at low temperatures. Catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by modifying hydrothermal synthesis conditions, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups crucial for the reaction. This feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Zeolite-doped B species create 3-D dispersed active sites for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with a small mesopore fraction, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra reveal boron's presence in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework insertion. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, forms a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, particularly h-BN foam, exhibits superior catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal due to its hierarchically porous nature, as demonstrated in high-temperature preparations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more reaction sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers boosts catalytic efficiency under high space velocity, enhancing mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, proving diffusion isn't limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity under 500C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting its catalytic efficiency. This enhances propene selectivity to 28% and improves production by 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a dispersed sub-monolayer. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, suggesting covalent bonding to the CNT structure, which acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, enhance catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, increasing reaction order. This highlights the effectiveness of B-based materials' structural characteristics for catalytic applications, particularly ODH of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. The PBSN-3 catalyst exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The reaction order of oxygen near 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a significant research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, but this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW synthesis was confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy revealed that boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW did not exhibit ODH conversion of propane. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites likely require some degree of B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN's synthesis methods increase surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer. Boron carbide's rhombohedral phase and synthesis methods contribute to its catalytic properties. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic performance. Boron phosphate's robust framework improves activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications. Specific examples, such as the B2O3/SBA-15 catalyst and the B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere, demonstrate high selectivity and stability in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN, with 3-D dispersed active sites, excels in propane ODH to propylene due to high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieves 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting peak position and expanding full width at half-maximum, creating more N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B sites' utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas; H2-BN's low activity may be due to B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from a balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% in the spent catalyst, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, provides a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during propane ODH. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that the methods used to incorporate B components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the importance of pore structure and B2O3 loading for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    