Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating CH bonds more efficiently than isolated units. Defect boron sites, identified as BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are crucial for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions regulated crystallinity, with incomplete crystallization promoting superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis under vacuum reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. NMR and IR results suggest that boron sites within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are confirmed to be crucial by isotope-labeled experiments. This feature provides active species while preventing full hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure significantly contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D wash-coated cordierite catalysts with B2O3 loading achieve high olefin selectivity and low CO2 production. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, facilitates hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, favoring bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, potentially improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The type of B precursor affects propene selectivity, with boric acid yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. Studies on boron loading and calcination temperature reveal their impact on B speciation and catalytic conversion, with B-doped CNFs showing higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance substance transmission and active site exposure. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups of SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst exhibits better catalytic efficiency, enhancing mass transfer and active site exposure. Increasing h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% and improving production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Incorporation methods, like embryonic zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesizes PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. 1D nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm SiO2's amorphous nature and B2O3's high dispersion. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with oxygen, forming ethylene. Oxygen's reaction order suggests surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This structure enhances catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation at high temperatures (>450 C), with excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species, while the tertiary aggregation observed during synthesis contributes to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, and its low cost and eco-friendly properties as a nonmetal catalyst are advantageous. The B2O3@BPO4 composite demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks with 3-D dispersed active sites for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, such as B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that active sites require B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 units.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% conversion and 89.4% selectivity. N-defects in the catalyst are crucial for propane conversion. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, increases defect density, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as hard templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability, evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and XRD patterns, supports the catalyst's durability. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significant yield increase.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, as evidenced by the impact on the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that methods used to incorporate B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the importance of pore structure and B2O3 loading for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, enabling exploration of boron's catalytic activity and construction of active centers. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in B-MWW zeolite are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated boron species enhance CH bond activation in propane. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and well-dispersed boron species were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages hindering hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic evidence from 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR confirms the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites in MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms hydroxyl groups' importance. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites with high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improve molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores. FT-IR confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, while ethane ODH requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, features a double layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. The generated h-BN improves gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, exhibits a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking pores. Boron-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boost selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type influence B speciation and catalytic conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. One-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability and h-BN dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading affects propane conversion linearly, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits superior productivity compared to most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly boosting propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates propane activation, increasing its reaction order, demonstrating that B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron into porous frameworks, benefiting ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are synthesized by electrospinning. Open pore structures in nanofibers guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxides. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination. TEM images show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in fibers. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene with oxygen. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, forming stable sandwich-like hollow spheres. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, enhancing catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. This composite shows excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. Its unique structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, improving catalytic performance. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is an emerging trend in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units, fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, yet this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, falsifying the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains primarily framework species as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, its lack of catalytic activity indicates that isolated BO3 sites are not active for propane ODH. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, have unique structural characteristics that enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like exfoliation and CVD, increases surface area and exposes more active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic performance. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere acts as a liquid-phase catalyst in ODH of propane, showing stability and high selectivity for propylene and ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is a standout in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, boasting high olefin selectivity. N2-treated h-BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects pivotal in this process. N2 plasma enhances defect creation, shifting peak position and widening the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN, with similar B/N ratios, showed comparable catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's lower activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN, with decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, showed low and unchanged activity, respectively, attributed to B-H species suppression and a balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric and phosphoric acids, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure that is an inverse replica of the template. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in ODH. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during propane ODH. Interconnected macropores, with an average diameter of 200 nm, facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The increased yield is attributed to improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites. The structural stability of BPO4(OM) is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the catalytic reaction. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by various measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, as evidenced by the variation in apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3, which is impacted by these factors and the partial pressure of propane. This suggests that the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures can significantly affect catalytic activity and selectivity for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites being key for reaction activation, especially aggregated species that hydrogen bond with adjacent SiOH groups, acting as efficient active centers at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Lower crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization facilitated the presence of hydrogen-bonded defect sites, crucial for superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. The framework's boron species, identified by FTIR, proceed to hydrolysis, forming B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups that boost catalysis and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. This feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic achieving excellent olefin selectivity. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal BO3 structures identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives, which aids in h-BN production. The h-BN foam's gas trapping capacity and pressure differential control favor the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Prepared at higher temperatures, pure h-BN foam with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) increases surface area and pore volume, enhancing catalytic performance. In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, B-doped CNFs show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor affect catalytic conversion and selectivity, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed superior stability and higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN, attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promoting h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity conditions, the catalyst exhibited better catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure. The h-BN loading influenced propane conversion, proving that conversion was not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst achieved remarkable productivity under 500C and high space velocity, outperforming most reported boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This enhances propene selectivity while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is predominantly deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalently bonded, thermally stable structure that resists oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Their defective sites and large porosity provide more active centers, as confirmed by solid-state NMR. This structure facilitates propane activation, increasing the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating the effectiveness of incorporating B components for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis uniformly disperses and stabilizes boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional PBSN nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneously distributed Si, B, and O. B2O3 species are highly dispersed, unlike aggregated B2O3 in B2O3/gel catalysts. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with tertiary aggregation, enhancing its catalytic performance. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. This metal-free catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, showcasing the effectiveness of B-based materials in porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is an emerging research trend. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its large surface area and high loading capacity, maximizes the utilization of active sites and improves mass transfer, making it a promising catalyst for hydrocarbon conversions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Detailed characterization by NMR spectroscopy reveals boron predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites likely require B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is a standout in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, boasting high olefin selectivity. N2-treated h-BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects pivotal in this process. Plasma treatment, notably N2 plasma, increases defect density, enhancing catalytic activity. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite a similar B/N ratio to N2-BN. H2-BN and Ar-BN showed reduced surface areas and altered B/N ratios, affecting their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent catalysts, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The interconnected macropores, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, provide a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, facilitating mass transfer and accessibility. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species and the ordered macroporous structure significantly improve catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, highlighting their crucial role in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites being crucial for reaction activation, especially aggregated species that hydrogen bond with adjacent SiOH groups, acting as efficient active centers at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization facilitates hydrogen bonding with silanols, contributing to superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope labeling. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports dihydroxyl boron species. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. The pore structure facilitates mass transport during reactions. Loading B components on 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and achieve high propane conversion and propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, leading to high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks create 3-D dispersed active sites, boosting activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, and contain boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, as evidenced by FT-IR spectra. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with face-to-face openings. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives modifies the opening size, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 foam, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than undoped CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. Using boric acid as a precursor maximizes propene selectivity at isoconversion. The literature lacks detailed evaluation of B incorporation methods for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3, facilitating the incorporation of boron oxide. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high gas flow, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials offer superior active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and SiO2 support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure enhances active site exposure, boosting conversion. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN dispersity and stability. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst shows better catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, enhancing propene selectivity while slightly reducing the reaction rate, leading to improved propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparing embryonic borosilicate zeolite is a proven method for incorporating B components, suitable for various catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesizes PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The synthesis method facilitates boron incorporation, crucial for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity over B2O3/gel. Oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface during ODH, with PBSN inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but reactive with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, offering excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the precise active site(s), necessitating the synthesis of materials with controlled boron oxide speciation for further understanding.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. BPO4, developed into a 3-D ordered macroporous material, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. A B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere, for instance, remains stable in ODH of propane, demonstrating high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. Despite similar B/N ratios, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric and phosphoric acids, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, supports its catalytic effectiveness. The improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in a significantly enhanced yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, influenced by pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure, varies from 1 to 3, indicating the crucial role of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications is effective when considering specific pore structures and B2O3 loading, as demonstrated by the impact on propane reaction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, enabling exploration of boron's catalytic activity and construction of active centers. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in B-MWW zeolite are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated species enhance CH bond activation in propane. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups are key for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, with low crystallinity enriching defect boron sites, boosting activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization facilitates hydrogen bonding, crucial for superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindered hydrolysis for boron leaching in humid conditions due to BOSiOx linkage, and superior durability. FTIR identifies framework boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups for enhanced catalysis, reversible to SiOB linkage. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, providing active species while hindering full hydrolysis and dissolution. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, offer numerous sites for B species and regulate radical reaction behavior. Loading B components onto surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Zeolite frameworks doped with B species exhibit high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, and contain boron, as evidenced by FT-IR spectra showing bands at 1405 and 926 cm1. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from numerous bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with face-to-face openings, adjustable by Cu(NO3)2 additives for h-BN production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in B2O3 foam, favoring oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's unique role in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion studied. Using boric acid as the B precursor on CNFs yields the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. Dispersing boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites for reactions and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are enhanced by the interaction between h-BN and SiO2 support. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, boosting conversion. SiO2 support's OH groups promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst shows better catalytic efficiency due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading positively impacts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it enhances propene selectivity to 28%, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bond that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. This structure enhances gas-phase reactions, increasing propane activation and reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. The 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks improve catalytic performance by providing more active sites and better mass transfer. Incorporating B active components, as seen in embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, is effective for catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkane ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The method ensures boron's uniformity and stability, critical for catalytic applications like ethane and propane ODH. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm SiO2's amorphous nature and B2O3's high dispersion. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity over B2O3/gel. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation on the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, facilitates efficient mass transfer and provides a high number of active sites. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the material's excellent catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. The phenomenon of tertiary aggregation observed during synthesis contributes to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating a productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is an emerging trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The melting point of B2O3 and its viscosity changes at high temperatures make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications. The one-step template-free synthesis method simplifies the incorporation of B active components into the structure, making the best use of hollow spheres for catalytic purposes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms B-MWW's boron species as trigonal-planar, with δiso(11B)=15ppm assigned to a B(OSi)2(OH) species. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks ODH conversion of propane. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that the ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability, as shown by Lu's group's BOS catalyst. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is pivotal in propane ODH due to its olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN excels with 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, attributed to three-boron center N-defects. Plasma treatment, notably N2, enhances defect creation, affecting catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash share a similar B/N ratio, with comparable catalytic conversion under identical conditions. However, O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite higher oxygen concentration. H2-BN and Ar-BN show reduced surface areas and altered B/N ratios, impacting activity through B-H species suppression and a balance between ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species in the catalysts significantly improves the yield of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure and B2O3 loading in the catalytic activity and selectivity of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating CH bonds more efficiently than isolated units. Defect boron sites, identified as BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are critical for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity, prepared by adjusting hydrothermal synthesis, show enhanced activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in a zeolite framework without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis reveal the spatial proximities and identification of boron species. Hydrolysis forms more B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups for catalysis, which can reverse into the SiOB linkage. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, providing active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolites create 3-D dispersed active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane required higher temperatures for similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by varying Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment is beneficial for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. Using boric acid as the precursor maximizes selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, exhibits good oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, making it a potential catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "Prepared via electrospinning, h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, achieving 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 productivity, over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure, crucial for catalysis. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers boosts catalytic efficiency under high space velocity, enhancing mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion isn't limiting. Under 500C at 48000mlgcat1h1 space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, thus improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, indicating covalent bonding to the CNT structure, which acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance propane ODH catalysis. Their defective sites and large porosity, confirmed by solid-state NMR, ensure ample exposure of active centers. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. Preparing embryonic borosilicate zeolite is an effective method for incorporating B active components, suitable for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported catalysts may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm amorphous SiO2 and high B2O3 dispersion. PBSN-3 outperforms B2O3/gel in propylene selectivity. Oxygen and ethane mixture triggers immediate ethylene formation. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests surface dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, a B-based material with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, was synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcasing a unique tertiary aggregation phenomenon. This structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions in catalytically active materials like B/SiO2 and boron nitride, which restructure, contrasts with the stability of B-MWW. This indicates that active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, vital for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, creating more N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN's low activity may result from B-H species suppression, despite a slightly increased B/N ratio.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits a robust framework with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, provides a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH of propane. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and leading to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, impacting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. This suggests that methods used to incorporate B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with pore structure and B2O3 loading playing crucial roles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites and aggregated species enhancing catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units are inactive, whereas aggregated boron, especially BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting synthesis conditions, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering full hydrolysis and boron leaching in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage, ensuring durability. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. Boron sites in MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, providing active species while preventing full hydrolysis and dissolution. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting dihydroxyl boron species. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, enhance catalytic performance by providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components onto 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% selectivity toward propene; SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide active sites for high propene selectivity at low temperatures; and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts with up to 10 wt% B loading. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and numerous mesopores also show excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores with minor interstitial mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's presence in the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 indicating trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, forms a double-layered structure with face-to-face openings. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives controls the opening size, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 foam, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, exhibits a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's incorporation into carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped CNFs exhibit higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor show the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, feature SiO2 as a media layer bridging cordierite substrate and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 under high GHSV, highlighting its effectiveness for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, while electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion, and the one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN dispersity. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst exhibits better catalytic efficiency, and h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, for an overall improved propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms boron sites in open coordination, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's selective oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of nonmetal catalysts in high-temperature applications due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane's partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. Despite having sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms the presence of trigonal-planar boron species, primarily B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability, as shown by the BOS catalyst. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown exceptional olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, attributed to three-boron center N-defects that enhance catalytic activity. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN, despite having a similar B/N ratio, showed low activity due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN's low activity may be due to B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from the balance between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized using hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, with boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as precursors and template. The inverse replica of the template resulted in interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The ordered macroporous structure exhibited remarkable stability and increased the content of tri-coordinated boron species from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in ODH. The interconnected macropores, formed by the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm in diameter. The presence of macroporosity was confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the specific surface area of BPO4(OM) was estimated at 75 m2 g-1. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework showed excellent structural stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected and open macropores facilitated mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and leading to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites resulted in a greatly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, suggesting that methods of B incorporation can significantly affect catalytic performance for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    