Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, being essential for reaction. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic analysis confirms the presence of isolated boron species, which proceed to hydrolysis forming B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW exhibits monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam for excellent activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These materials exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed the presence of boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful incorporation into the zeolite framework. Trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, particularly h-BN foam, improves gas trapping and pressure control, favoring oriented openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal, demonstrating the effectiveness of B-based materials in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. Using boric acid as a precursor maximizes selectivity at isoconversion. While the literature does not detail specific methods for B incorporation, it highlights the effectiveness of boron doping for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, shows promise as a catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are superior due to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and the interaction between nanoparticles and support. h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers show higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN in the ODHP reaction, attributed to the one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Under high space velocity conditions, the nanofiber catalyst's efficiency is enhanced due to improved mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively affects propane conversion, proving that conversion is not limited by molecular diffusion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is remarkably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure enhances gas-phase reactions, facilitating propane activation and improving catalytic performance. Preparation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation are effective for incorporating B active components, making them suitable for various catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. 1D nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limits, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSNs show higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, have a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in fibers. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface during ethane and propane ODH, with PBSN inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but reactive with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, a B-based material with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, was synthesized via a one-step template-free method, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species, showing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms that B-MWW contains primarily framework species, with boron existing as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require boron species with B-O-B connectivity, as evidenced by the lack of activity in B-MWW and the restructuring of boron sites in catalytically active materials.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is pivotal in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, showcasing superior olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma enhances BN's defect density, shifting peak position and broadening full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN, with similar B/N ratios, exhibit comparable catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show reduced surface areas and unchanged activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as hard templates, the BPO4 exhibits an inverse replica structure with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The framework's structural stability during ODH, unchanged macropore sizes, and identical XRD patterns before and after catalytic reactions, along with the retention of tri-coordinated boron species, contribute to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions and improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of these materials is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. Incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications requires careful consideration of these factors, as they can significantly impact catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting the significance of boron in catalysis. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are critical for ODHP, with aggregated boron species excelling in propane CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and boron leaching. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. Boron sites within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolites create 3-D dispersed active sites, increasing activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized via a hard template method, has rich pores and high surface area, enhancing molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, exhibits excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving 20% conversion and 70% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirm boron's framework insertion, with trigonal (BO3) and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures act as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, while ethane ODH requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The h-BN enhances gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foam, controlling bubble pressure and promoting oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess hierarchically porous structures, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. B speciation and catalytic conversion are influenced by boron loading and calcination temperature. For the same reaction conditions, B-doped CNFs outperform pristine CNFs in propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 serves as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, at low B2O3 loading, exhibits high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its oxidation resistance and stability at high temperatures. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "Prepared via electrospinning, h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to one-dimensional structure and active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, well-dispersed h-BN in nanofibers enhances catalytic efficiency by improving mass transfer. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts achieve high productivity under 500C and high space velocity, surpassing most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% and improving production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, showcasing the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The method ensures boron's uniformity and stability, critical for catalytic applications like ethane and propane ODH. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are electrospun, with open pore structures that prevent diffusion issues and maintain high activity at high WHSV. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel, and the catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with oxygen, forming ethylene. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation on the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, forms sandwich-like hollow spheres with tertiary aggregation, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, achieving productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. This nonmetal catalyst, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is suitable for high-temperature applications due to B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes. The unique structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, improving mass transfer and active site availability. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface forms an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species are isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, but this material lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, contradicting the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. B-MWW was synthesized and confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy revealed that boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW showed no propane ODH conversion. Active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, and boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improve catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a robust macroporous material for enhanced activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. Specific examples, like the B2O3/SBA-15 catalyst and the B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere, demonstrate remarkable selectivity and stability in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects were pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induced more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN had similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN had decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to suppressed B-H species and Ar-BN's unchanged activity to the balance between B/N ratio and surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure and tri-coordinated boron species effectively boost catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and propane partial pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. This indicates that methods used to incorporate B active components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity, with the pore structure playing a crucial role in the performance and kinetics of boron oxide supported on silica with different pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting the role of boron in catalysis. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are crucial for ODHP, with aggregated boron species more efficient in propane activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis. The spatial proximities between B and H species, identified through 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR, indicate the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Boron sites anchored within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without a zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight-channel structures for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improve molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron incorporation into the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area and porous framework. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This promotes the production of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), which improves gas trapping and pressure differential control, favoring the oriented opening of the structure. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity. Boron loading and calcination temperature impact B speciation and catalytic conversion. The literature lacks detailed evaluation of B incorporation methods for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These materials are particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, outperforming bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows for adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for stability and activity. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. SiO2 support enhances stability and h-BN dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading positively affects propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The catalyst's productivity under 500C and high space velocity is superior to most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, increasing reaction order. These structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks boost catalytic performance, making methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the open silica fiber framework, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron active components into the porous framework, advantageous for catalytic applications like the ODH of ethane and propane. The synthesized PBSNs have a diameter of 100-150 nm, produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform dispersion and stability of boron species. The open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts show higher olefin selectivity and stability than other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during the ODH of propane. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination in air, with a porous structure and homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. The amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure are indicated by XRD patterns. The B2O3/gel catalyst allows B2O3 aggregation, as shown by XRD. PBSN-3 catalyst shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene immediately when a mixture of oxygen and ethane is pulsed into the chamber. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both the ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow spheres, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to their 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The phenomenon of tertiary aggregation during synthesis contributes to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, showcasing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, outperforms many metal-based catalysts in high-temperature applications. The unique structure of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its sandwich-like hollow sphere structure, demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for various catalytic applications, following Eley-Rideal kinetics and showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, has a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, yet lacks catalytic activity. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy reveals boron species as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic performance. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is a standout in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene due to its superior olefin selectivity. N2-treated h-BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a key role. Plasma treatments, notably N2, increase defect density, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash showed similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN had decreased surface areas and compromised activity, with H2-BN's low activity linked to B-H species suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure that is an inverse replica of the template. The tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency. The BPO4(OM) framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3. Studies show that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, indicating that the methods used to incorporate B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, being active. Defect boron sites, especially those in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are crucial for efficient CH bond activation and low-temperature ODHP catalysis. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches these defect sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. 2D HETCOR spectra reveal spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups crucial for the reaction. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW exhibits monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, leading to high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with defective trigonal structures (BO3) identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to more energetically demanding primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, allows for adjustable opening sizes via Cu(NO3)2 additives, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping capacity, controlling bubble pressure differentials to favor oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, exhibits superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking the pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing that B-doped CNFs have higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3, facilitating the incorporation of active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance catalytic performance due to substance transmission and active site exposure. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The method ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitated dispersion in aqueous solution. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN. The one-dimensional structure facilitated active site exposure, increasing conversion. Superior stability was attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups of SiO2 support promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibited better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading influenced propane conversion, proving conversion was not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity was notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, enhancing propene selectivity. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their abundant defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, enhancing propane activation. The 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks of B-based materials improve catalytic performance by increasing active sites and mass transfer. Incorporation methods, like preparing embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitation, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. TEM and XRD analysis confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are mixed. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting surface oxygen dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and large surface area. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, facilitates efficient mass transfer and provides numerous active sites. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks is effective for high-temperature catalytic applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes at high temperatures make it suitable for use as a high-temperature supported liquid-phase catalyst (SPLC) when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface oxidizes and hydrolyzes, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, contradicting the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the precise active site. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms B-MWW's boron species as primarily framework species, adjacent to silanol groups. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks propane ODH activity. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. This suggests that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites, including h-BN, B410.4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica boosts catalytic selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a key role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, increases defect density, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN's peak position blue-shifted relative to BN, indicating more N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's lower activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activity, respectively, due to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and increasing active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in ODH. The ordered macroporous structure and tri-coordinated boron species effectively enhance catalytic performance in propane ODH. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, varies from 1 to 3, indicating the importance of these factors. Incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications is effective when considering the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, as demonstrated by the impact on the apparent propane order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, revealing the catalytic activity of boron centers. Defect boron sites, particularly aggregated species, are critical for CH bond activation in propane, with BOH groups in aggregated BOx species acting as active centers at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, showing that low crystallinity enhances activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis. Spectroscopic analysis confirms the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Boron sites within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths enhance mass transport and catalytic performance, while SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. Their type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms indicate predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the material's catalytic advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, when pure h-BN is used, results in a hierarchically porous monolithic foam with superior catalytic activity and environmental remediation capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, potentially boosting catalytic activity. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped CNFs exhibit higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. This demonstrates the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more reaction sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, crucial for catalysis. The electrospinning method allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed superior propane conversion in the ODHP reaction due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Its stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst exhibited better catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrated remarkable productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C and a space velocity of 48000mlgcat1h1, outperforming most reported boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This results in improved propene production, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, effective for ODH and other applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. Electrospinning followed by calcination in air effectively incorporates boron components. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst's surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, a B-based material with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, was synthesized via a one-step template-free method, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, improving catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. Melted B2O3 supported by BPO4 acts as an active species, contributing to the composite's excellent productivity and stability at 550 C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, leading to a stable and active catalyst. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. B2O3@BPO4 demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. However, B-MWW, with isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, is inactive for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that B-O-B connectivity is required for catalytic activity. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites, necessitating the synthesis of materials with controlled boron oxide speciation to understand active site formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a compositionally disordered structure. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, effectively integrate B components for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN, with 3-D dispersed active sites, excels in propane ODH due to its olefin selectivity. N2 plasma treatment on BN creates more N-defects, enhancing catalytic activity, as evidenced by 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects as pivotal for propane conversion. N2-BN's blue-shifted peak and expanded full width at half-maximum indicate in-plane strain strengthening and interlayer interaction weakening, facilitating defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN, with similar B/N ratios, show comparable catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is attributed to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and the compromise between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template. The resulting structure, with 200 nm interconnected macropores, is an inverse replica of the template, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increased from 41% to 51% after reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability and a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The interconnected macropores, consisting of a matrix bridged by 80 nm ink-bottle neck-like channels, facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The structural stability is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, as well as an identical XRD pattern before and after the catalytic reaction. The active sites, tri-coordinated boron (BO3) species, are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by FTIR, NMR, and XPS measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that methods used to incorporate B components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting the role of boron in catalysis. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are essential for ODHP, with aggregated boron species excelling in propane activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Lower crystallinity, achieved by adjusting synthesis conditions, enhances activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures by enriching defect boron sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid atmospheres due to BOSiOx linkages. While inert in some contexts, isolated boron in BS-1 zeolite exhibits high ODHP activity. Spectroscopic methods reveal spatial proximities between B and H species and identify framework boron species. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for reactions, allowing reversible formation of B[OHO(H)Si]2 species that boost catalysis. This feature hinders full hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolites anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphates, synthesized using hard templates, offer rich pores and high surface areas, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 species, identified as active sites, are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, as boron covers pore walls without blocking them. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion studied. CNFs modified with boric acid as a precursor showed the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These characteristics make the method effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. At 500°C and 48,000 ml/gcat/h, the catalyst's olefins productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings, demonstrating high catalytic efficiency. Propene selectivity notably increases, while the reaction rate slightly decreases, optimizing propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a dispersed sub-monolayer. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, suggesting covalent bonding to the CNT structure, which acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of boron sites in open coordination, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates propane activation, enhancing catalytic performance. Incorporation methods, like preparing embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for various catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high activity at high WHSV. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure, unlike the aggregated B2O3 in B2O3/gel catalyst. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting surface dissociation of molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, a B-based material with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, was synthesized via a one-step template-free method, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the material's excellent catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of stable and active catalysts. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating high productivity and selectivity in propane conversion, with a productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The one-step synthesis method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making the best use of hollow sphere structures for high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface oxidizes and hydrolyzes, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. Despite B-MWW's boron species existing as isolated BO3 units fully integrated into the zeolite framework, it lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane over boron-based catalysts requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, have unique structural characteristics that enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and exposes more active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic performance. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere remained stable in ODH of propane, demonstrating high selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH over metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum in N2-BN. Despite similar B/N ratios, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and low activity, possibly from B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), with their content increasing from 41% to 51% after the reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH. The interconnected macropores, bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm, facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) catalyst maintains unchanged macropore sizes and an identical XRD pattern post-reaction, confirming structural stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, ranging from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, indicating the importance of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications can be more effective when considering the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, as demonstrated by the impact on the apparent propane reaction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites and aggregated boron species being crucial for enhanced catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units are inactive, whereas aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups act as active centers at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting synthesis conditions, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid conditions due to BOSiOx linkages. Inert for some reactions, isolated boron in BS-1 zeolite exhibits high ODHP activity. Spatial proximities and coordination of boron species are identified through 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR spectra. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups crucial for the reaction. This feature provides active species while hindering full hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. The pore structure facilitates mass transport during reactions. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 structures were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane required higher temperatures (560-590 C) for similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, making them suitable for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, demonstrates a double layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating h-BN production. The generated h-BN improves gas trapping capacity, aiding in the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, exhibits superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs, influenced by the type of B precursor, with boric acid yielding the best results. Boron loading and calcination temperature affect B speciation and catalytic conversion, impacting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high gas flow, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, exemplified by silicon boride, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. These materials offer more active sites for reactions and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Silicon boride, rich in boron sites, shows good oxidation resistance, making it a potential catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability. Catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, highlighting the significance of boron dispersion in porous structures for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "Prepared via electrospinning, h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's efficiency is enhanced by mass transfer, allowing easy exposure of active sites. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. At 500°C and 48000mlgcat1h1 space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings as 0.003wt%, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This leads to improved propene production, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, with effective incorporation methods for diverse applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and maintain high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other supported boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron active components into porous frameworks, benefiting catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements, as shown by TEM images. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene when oxygen and ethane are introduced. The reaction order of oxygen is about 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The tertiary aggregation observed during synthesis contributes to the stability and activity of the catalyst. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, achieving excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. This metal-free catalyst, with its large surface area and high loading capacity, demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications, following Eley-Rideal kinetics with second-order rate dependence on propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, primarily contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, as confirmed by 11B solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites, necessitating the synthesis of materials with controlled boron oxide speciation for further understanding.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. BPO4, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a robust macroporous material for improved ODH activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, surpassing metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios, with comparable catalytic conversion under identical conditions. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and altered B/N ratios, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction, supports its catalytic advantages. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species and the interconnected macropores significantly improve kinetic diffusion and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, as evidenced by the apparent propane reaction order varying from 1 to 3 under different conditions. This indicates that methods used to integrate B components into these structures can significantly affect catalytic activity and selectivity for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    