Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, offering insights into boron-containing catalysts' activity and construction of active boron centers. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are essential for ODHP, with aggregated boron species excelling in propane's CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in a zeolite framework without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with the BOSiOx linkage hindering hydrolysis and ensuring durability. Spectroscopic techniques reveal spatial proximities and identify boron species, while NMR and IR results suggest dynamic boron sites that can form more active groups and reverse into SiOB linkages. An isotope-labeled experiment confirms the importance of hydroxyl groups, and the confinement effect of the zeolite structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. The pore structure facilitates mass transport during reactions. Loading B active components on 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monolithic catalysts with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B species into zeolite frameworks creates a 3-D dispersion of B active sites, boosting activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, exhibits excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the catalytic advantage of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustability is crucial for h-BN production, which improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment foam, favoring the oriented opening of the bowl-like structure. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic activity and environmental remediation capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) improve selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. Boron loading and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion. The type of B precursor affects selectivity, with boric acid yielding the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high gas flow, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. OH groups of SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst exhibits better catalytic efficiency, enhancing mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity at 500°C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. This effect is observed even at a low 0.003wt% loading, indicating high catalytic activity. Propene selectivity notably increases, while the reaction rate slightly decreases, optimizing propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bond to the CNT structure, providing thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order. This highlights the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through effective incorporation methods like embryonic zeolite preparation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may affect propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, ensuring uniform dispersion. Structural characterization confirms the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene at high temperatures, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of the stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free option for high-temperature catalytic applications due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites in active materials under reaction conditions makes precise identification of active sites challenging. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Unlike catalytically active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts that contain aggregated boron sites restructuring under reaction conditions, B-MWW remains stable. This indicates that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications. For instance, a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere catalyst showed stability and high C3H6 productivity in ODH of propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN shows a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, respectively, influenced by B-H species suppression and the balance between B/N ratio and surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates. The resulting structure, with 200 nm interconnected macropores, is an inverse replica of the template, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increased from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability and a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, leading to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions due to improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites. The interconnected macropores, formed by the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix of macropores bridged by 80 nm ink-bottle neck-like channels, facilitating mass transfer and enhancing catalytic yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene and the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3, are influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and propane partial pressure. This suggests that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components for different catalytic applications depends on these specific structural characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, being more active than isolated species. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are the active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis. This contrasts with the inertness of isolated boron in some frameworks. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Boron sites in MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the BOSiOx linkage prevents full hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has a monohydroxyl group but lacks detectable B[OHO(H)-Si]2 species, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures enhances reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and influencing radical reaction behavior. The pore structure regulates mass transport during reactions. Loading B active components on 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for gas-phase radical reactions, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide active sites for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts achieving high B loading. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, and the 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, show excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized hydrothermally, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra reveal boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal (BO3) and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. The incorporation of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) boosts gas trapping capacity, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like structure opening. High-temperature preparation of pure h-BN monolithic foams results in a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrating superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking pores. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. Boron loading and calcination temperature affect B speciation and catalytic conversion. Using boric acid as a precursor for CNFs modification yields the highest selectivity to propene at equal conversion rates. The literature lacks a critical evaluation of B incorporation methods for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity under high GHSV, with negligible CO2 production. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated with steam assistance. Dispersing boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, crucial for catalysis. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperformed bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. Under high space velocity conditions, the catalyst showed better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, proving that conversion was not diffusion-limited. The catalyst's productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C and 48000mlgcat1h1 was notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at low loadings, demonstrating high catalytic efficiency. This enhances propene selectivity while slightly reducing the reaction rate, improving propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bond that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites from the defect-rich structure, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions significantly boost propane activation, increasing reaction order. This highlights the effectiveness of B-based materials' structural characteristics for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. Electrospinning effectively incorporates boron components into porous frameworks, advantageous for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. Open pore structures in nanofibers guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH processes. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation. The tertiary aggregation phenomenon observed during synthesis contributes to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, achieving excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, demonstrating the effectiveness of B2O3@BPO4 for high-temperature catalytic applications, particularly in hydrocarbon conversions. The exploitation of B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is an emerging research trend in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications, as demonstrated by the high selectivity of BPO4 and B2O3 in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects were pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induced more defects in BN, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN had similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% after catalysis, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability and accessibility, leading to improved catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) framework's structural stability is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. These factors play crucial roles in the catalytic activity and selectivity of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites being crucial for reaction efficiency, especially aggregated species for CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid conditions due to BOSiOx linkages. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectroscopy confirm the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination, which are crucial for catalytic performance. Hydrolysis of boron sites within MFI zeolite frameworks forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and isotope-labeled experiments highlight the importance of hydroxyl groups. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework. B-MWW's monohydroxyl boron sites support dihydroxyl boron species, further enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts allow high B loading, up to 10 wt %, and exhibit excellent olefin selectivity. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonal and tetrahedral boron coordination, indicating successful boron incorporation into the framework. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "Bowl-like B-based materials, with their large surface area and porous structure, are promising for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from numerous bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, enhanced by hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), improves gas trapping capacity and pressure differential control, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. Effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing higher propene selectivities for B-doped CNFs compared to pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst shows superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These characteristics make the method effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups, formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance catalysis by facilitating substance transmission and active site exposure. The electrospinning method allows for adjustable properties and ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN with BOH groups improves dispersion in aqueous solution. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure, which exposes more active sites. SiO2 support anchors h-BN, promoting its dispersity and stability. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst exhibits better catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates superior productivity in the ODHP reaction compared to most reported boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, increasing reaction order. These structural characteristics and incorporation methods, like preparing embryonic zeolites, effectively enhance catalytic performance for various applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in PBSN catalysts, with PBSN-3 showing higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane suggests molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, contributing to the stable and active catalyst. B2O3, with a melting point of 450°C and changing viscosity, is suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, making it a promising nonmetal catalyst due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties compared to metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, is inactive for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, suggesting that active sites require some degree of B-O-B connectivity. This insight necessitates the synthesis of materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation to understand active site formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. Specific examples include a B2O3/SBA-15 catalyst with remarkable selectivity for ODH of propane and a B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere with high stability and selectivity for propylene and ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is pivotal in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, showcasing superior olefin selectivity. N2 plasma treatment on BN enhances catalytic activity, achieving 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, attributed to three-boron center N-defects. Plasma treatment induces more defects, with N2-BN exhibiting a blue-shifted peak and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity linked to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity due to the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated boron species are identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent catalysts. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns before and after the reaction. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species and the interconnected macropores contribute to the remarkable catalytic performance and stability of BPO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, impacting the apparent propane reaction order from 1 to 3. This suggests that specific pore structures and B2O3 loading are critical for optimizing catalytic activity and selectivity in different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being critical for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species outperform isolated ones in propane's CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to adjacent SiOH groups, are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Lower crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions, ensuring durability. FTIR and NMR results indicate boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope labeling. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework. B-MWW's monohydroxyl boron sites support dihydroxyl species' activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, leading to high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading up to 10 wt% show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized via modified hydrothermal methods, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra reveal boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron (BO3) structures serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range (560-590 C) due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, making them suitable for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from numerous oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The generated h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment foam, enabling precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal at higher temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The type of B precursor and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the B precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion. These findings highlight the importance of B incorporation methods for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 serves as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These methods are particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, crucial for catalysis. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst exhibits superior stability due to SiO2 support anchoring, promoting h-BN dispersity. Higher propane conversion in h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers is attributed to the one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's efficiency is enhanced, likely due to improved mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction, showcasing its catalytic superiority.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, enhancing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly reducing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic enhancement of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through effective incorporation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, suitable for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. Electrospinning is effective for incorporating boron components into porous frameworks, beneficial for ODH applications. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. Open pore structures in nanofibers prevent diffusion limitation and maintain high catalytic activity. PBSN catalysts show superior propylene selectivity in propane ODH compared to B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates ethylene formation with oxygen. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcases tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and activity. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, achieving high productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This composite, with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, offers a large surface area and high loading capacity, improving catalytic performance. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalysis, outperforming metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their eco-friendly and cost-effective properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its unique structure and synthesis method, demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for various catalytic applications, particularly in hydrocarbon conversions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units, fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, yet this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains predominantly isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This leads to the conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites but likely requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a macroporous material for improved ODH activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH over metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for catalysis. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak and expanded full width at half-maximum in N2-BN. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, respectively, attributed to B-H species suppression and a compromised effect between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "BPO4, synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. This structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, has a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transport and accessibility of tri-coordinated boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The BPO4 framework shows remarkable stability, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals post-reaction. The content of tri-coordinated boron species increases from 41% to 51% after ODH, indicating their catalytic role. The interconnected macropores facilitate mass transfer, improving catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This indicates that the methods used to incorporate B active components can impact catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating CH bonds more efficiently than isolated units. Defect boron sites, identified as BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are crucial for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, revealing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization is key to superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions, ensuring durability. FTIR and NMR results suggest boron sites within MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and isotope labeling confirms hydroxyl groups' importance. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework. B-MWW exhibits monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high olefin selectivity and stability. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate improve molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms revealed predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 indicating trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 defective structures were identified as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, aligning with previous findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This promotes hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production, enhancing gas trapping capacity for precise bubble size control, favoring oriented openings. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrates a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, without blocking the pores. This modification boosts selectivity to propene in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, with higher selectivities observed at the same reaction temperatures and conversions compared to pristine CNFs. The type of B precursor impacts selectivity, with boric acid yielding the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion. Boron loading and calcination temperature also influence B speciation and catalytic conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, demonstrates high catalytic performance, achieving 86% propylene selectivity, 97.6% olefin selectivity, and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield by suppressing overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalysts exhibit good interaction between nanoparticles and support, ensuring activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. Its one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at a low 0.003wt% loading. This enhances propene selectivity to 28% and improves production by 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions increase the reaction order of propane from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating catalytic advantages. Preparation methods, like creating embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. 1D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This structure enhances catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with melted B2O3 acting as an active species. The B2O3@BPO4 composite shows excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of the stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially as a supported liquid-phase catalyst (SPLC) when supported by a suitable material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/SiO2 and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane does not proceed over isolated BO3 sites but requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the precise identification of active sites, necessitating the synthesis of materials with controlled boron oxide speciation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene due to its high olefin selectivity. N2 plasma treatment enhances h-BN's catalytic activity, achieving 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, shifting the peak position in N2-BN and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. This structure ensures excellent stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure and B2O3 loading in catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, being more active than isolated species. Defect boron sites are essential for catalysis, and incomplete crystallization enriches these sites, enhancing catalytic activity. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures, due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage. This contrasts with inert boron in some frameworks. Spatial proximities and coordination of boron species are identified through HETCOR and FTIR spectra. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, allowing reversible formation of B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups that boost catalysis. Dihydroxyl boron species in B-MWW are active, unlike monohydroxyl groups. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, SBA-15 zeolite with mesoporous structure anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores for excellent activity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, indicating predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 for trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with face-to-face openings. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives influences the opening size, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 foam, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, with B-doped CNFs showing higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions. Using boric acid as the precursor provided the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, using SiO2 as a media layer between cordierite substrate and B2O3. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, exhibits good oxidation resistance and catalytic stability at high temperatures, making it a potential catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. The dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites for reactions and improving catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at a low 0.003wt% loading. This sustains propene selectivity, improving production by up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of boron sites in open coordination, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. Enhanced gas-phase reactions significantly boost propane activation, demonstrating the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods, like that of embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for incorporating B active components, making them suitable for various catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The synthesis method facilitates the incorporation of boron active components, advantageous for ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform dispersion and stability of boron species. The open fiber structure allows easy diffusion and high catalytic activity at high WHSV. TEM images show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting surface dissociation of molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and activity. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, achieving productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst, B2O3, is cost-effective and eco-friendly, making it a promising alternative to metal-based catalysts. The unique structure of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, crucial for catalytic performance. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating its effectiveness for high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that B-O-B connectivity is likely required for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% selectivity. N-defects in the catalyst are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating strengthened in-plane strain and weakened interlayer interaction. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, respectively, due to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as sources and monodisperse polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template. The tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increased from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in ODH. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect of polymer spheres, are 200 nm in diameter and bridged by 80 nm ink-bottle neck-like channels, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The specific surface areas of BPO4(OM) and BPO4(bulk) are 75 and 22 m2 g-1, respectively, and the active sites are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by various spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which ranges from 1 to 3. This indicates that the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures play a crucial role in catalytic activity and selectivity for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating CH bonds more effectively than isolated units. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are critical for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, revealing that lower crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups serve as the active center for efficient ODHP catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, and FTIR identifies framework boron species. Boron sites within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the B-MWW structure supports dihydroxyl boron species. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure for efficient mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's presence in the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, crucial for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foams, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess hierarchically porous structures, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The type of B precursor and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials facilitate substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for catalysis. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling enhances dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion. One-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, increasing conversion. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity, enhancing stability and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts show superior productivity in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing reaction order. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, with effective incorporation methods for various catalytic uses, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. Electrospinning followed by calcination incorporates boron effectively. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. Oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface, as indicated by a reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making B2O3@BPO4 a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, showing second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface forms an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, was characterized using solid-state NMR spectroscopy, revealing boron predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW showed no propane ODH conversion. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane over boron-based catalysts requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity. Spectroscopy revealed three-boron center N-defects crucial for propane conversion. N2 plasma induced more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN had similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity was due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite higher oxygen concentration. H2-BN and Ar-BN showed decreased surface areas and unchanged activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and the compromise between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm. Tri-coordinated boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected macropores, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the high specific surface area (75 m2 g-1) facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure influence the apparent propane reaction order, highlighting the role of these factors in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    