Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, proving active. Defect boron sites, especially those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are key for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, showing that low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing hydrolysis and leaching, ensuring durability. Spectroscopic evidence from 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR confirms the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination, which are crucial for catalysis. NMR and IR results suggest that boron sites in MFI zeolites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms the importance of hydroxyl groups. The B-MWW with monohydroxyl boron sites supports the active dihydroxyl boron species. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites feature porous structures and high surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@HC-p catalysts achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolites create 3-D dispersed active sites, enhancing oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized via a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, excels in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's presence in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal BO3 structures were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, crucial for h-BN production. h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, has a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives and gas trapping capacity in B2O3 foam precisely controls bubble size, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. Boron loading and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion, with B-doped CNFs showing higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability, attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. This suggests that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability through anchoring. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in nanofibers boosts catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. h-BN loading affects propane conversion linearly, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, enhancing propene selectivity to 28% (Quote 1, 3). Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 (Quote 4). Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with covalent bonding providing thermal stability against oxidation (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by providing abundant defective sites and large porosity. Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, increasing propane's reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating enhanced catalytic activity. Incorporation methods, like the preparation of embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst outperforms B2O3/gel in propylene selectivity. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, forming a stable and active catalyst. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's selective oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, showing productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550 C. This eco-friendly, nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, making it promising for high-temperature applications. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. The synthesis process, involving primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leads to the formation of sandwich-like hollow spheres, maximizing the utilization of both sides of the support. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic roles, especially when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane's partial pressure, demonstrating its effectiveness in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. This leads to the conclusion that propane ODH does not proceed over isolated BO3 sites but likely requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, effectively integrate B components for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is pivotal in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, showcasing superior olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieves 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects enhancing conversion. Plasma treatments, notably N2, induce more defects, blue-shifting peak positions and expanding full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN share similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN exhibit decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activities, respectively, due to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, like BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure that is an inverse replica of the template. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure of supports, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, highlighting the critical role of these factors in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites crucial for reaction, especially aggregated species for CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis under vacuum reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope-labeled experiments confirm the importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction, providing active species while hindering dissolution. B-MWW with monohydroxyl groups supports dihydroxyl boron species, and the confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity; SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures; and B2O3/SiO2@HC-p catalysts with up to 10 wt% B loading, showing excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. These 3-D structures improve mass transport, molecular diffusion, and heat transfer, crucial for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to more demanding primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic and environmental remediation potential. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating h-BN production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor. Using boric acid as the precursor maximizes selectivity at isoconversion. The literature lacks detailed analysis of incorporation methods and their effectiveness for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance. Dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are superior due to the SiO2 support anchoring effect and the interaction between nanoparticles and support. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support's abundant OH groups promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's efficiency is better due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity under 500°C and high space velocity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This leads to a significant increase in propene selectivity and an 18% improved production, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, showcasing the catalytic advantages of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite incorporation are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV. Compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts, porous boron-doped silica nanofiber (PBSN) catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires. This structure, featuring tertiary aggregation, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, offering excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal B2O3 as a high-temperature SPLC is an emerging trend due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties. The synthesis method simplifies the process of creating hollow sphere structures, maximizing the use of both sides for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity rather than isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for catalysis. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and the compromise between increased B/N ratio and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates. The resulting structure, with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter, is an inverse replica of the template. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increased from 41% to 51% after reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm in diameter. The presence of macroporosity was confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the specific surface areas were estimated to be 75 m2 g-1 for BPO4(OM) and 22 m2 g-1 for BPO4(bulk). The ordered macroporous structure and tri-coordinated boron species enhance catalytic performance in propane ODH, with improved mass transfer and accessibility leading to better catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene and the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3, are influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure. This indicates that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications depends on specific pore structure and B2O3 loading. Studies on boron oxide supported on silica with different pore structures confirm that these factors impact the apparent propane reaction order, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being key for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species outperform isolated ones in propane's CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are the active centers for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enhanced activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures by enriching defect boron sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports dihydroxyl boron species, and the zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity; SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures; and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts with up to 10 wt% B loading, showing excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate and h-BN bowl foam with large surface areas and mesopores exhibit high activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites feature predominantly micropores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonally and tetrahedrally coordinated boron, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to more energetically demanding primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layered structure with face-to-face openings. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives facilitates hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production, optimizing gas trapping in the B2O3 foam for precise bubble size control, which aids in the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and efficient removal of organic pollutants, showcasing the effectiveness of B-based materials in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing higher propene selectivities for B-doped CNFs compared to pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is effective for various catalytic applications, notably oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups, formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional structures facilitate active site exposure, enhancing catalytic performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperformed bulk h-BN in propane conversion, likely due to its structure that promotes active site participation. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst showed better catalytic efficiency, possibly due to enhanced mass transfer. The h-BN loading positively influenced propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not limited by molecular diffusion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibited superior productivity in the ODHP reaction compared to most reported boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, even at low loadings of 0.003wt%, indicating high catalytic activity. This enhances propene selectivity to 28% and improves production by 18%, despite a slight decrease in reaction rate. Maximum propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, ensuring good thermal stability and covalent bonding to the CNT structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. This structure facilitates propane activation, increasing the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, highlighting the catalytic advantage of B-based materials. Preparation methods, like creating embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are crucial for incorporating B components, enhancing catalytic performance for propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The method is effective for incorporating boron components into porous frameworks, advantageous for catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. The synthesized PBSNs have a diameter of 100-150 nm, with a porous structure and homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ODH processes, suggesting molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with tertiary aggregation, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, offering excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, outperforms many metal-based catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, yet this material lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site. To understand active site formation, a material with controlled boron oxide speciation is needed. B-MWW was synthesized and characterized, showing that boron predominantly exists as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW does not exhibit propane ODH conversion, indicating that aggregated boron sites, which restructure under reaction conditions, are required for catalytic activity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity. Three-boron center N-defects are pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4(OM) exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure and tri-coordinated boron species effectively boost catalytic performance in propane ODH. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect of polybenzoxazine polymer spheres, are beneficial for mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and leading to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) framework shows excellent structural stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene and the apparent propane reaction order, which can vary from 1 to 3, are influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane. These findings suggest that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species activating propane more efficiently than isolated species. Defect boron sites, particularly those hydrogen-bonded to silanols, are crucial for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity were synthesized, where low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH were identified as the active center for efficient ODHP catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing hydrolysis and leaching, ensuring durability. Spectroscopic methods like 2D 11B1H HETCOR and FTIR under vacuum identify framework boron species, revealing their spatial proximities and coordination. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites within MFI zeolite can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, enhancing catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Isotope-labeled experiments confirm hydroxyl groups' importance. B-MWW with monohydroxyl boron sites supports dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect boosts reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam with a large surface area and mesopores for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores with minor interstitial mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron insertion into the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 indicating trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, along with hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, favoring the oriented opening of the bowl-like structure. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrates superior catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal due to its hierarchically porous structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. This modification boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. Boron loading and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion, with doped CNFs showing higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and B2O3. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV. These characteristics make the incorporation methods effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, are the source of catalytic activity. The dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more reaction sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, enhancing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in the cavity and tips of CNTs, with a minor fraction on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The one-dimensional nanofiber structure prevents diffusion limitation and guarantees high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may affect propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with tertiary aggregation, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, showcasing the effectiveness of B-based materials in high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is an emerging research trend. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its large surface area and high loading capacity, maximizes the utilization of active sites and improves mass transfer, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for hydrocarbon conversions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective ODH catalysts for alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, contradicting the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a 1.10.1wt.% boron loading, lacks catalytic activity, indicating that framework species are not active for propane ODH. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy characterizes boron species in B-MWW as trigonal-planar, with δiso(11B)=15ppm assigned to a B(OSi)2(OH) species. B-MWW's boron predominantly exists as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW shows no propane ODH conversion. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. The difference in boron sites leads to the conclusion that propane ODH does not proceed over isolated BO3 sites; active catalysts likely require B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, effectively tailor these materials for various catalytic applications, as demonstrated by the B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere catalyst, which remained stable for 27 h at 550 C with high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN excels in propane ODH due to its olefin selectivity over metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma enhances defect creation, shifting peak position and widening full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite higher oxygen concentration. H2-BN's low activity may be due to B-H species suppression, while Ar-BN's unchanged activity results from the balance between B/N ratio increase and decreased surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The framework's structural stability during ODH and the interconnected macropores' role in mass transfer contribute to better catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) catalyst's stability is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications is influenced by the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3. Studies show that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by the pore structure of supports, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, indicating that these factors play crucial roles in the catalytic activity and selectivity of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites being crucial for reaction activation, especially aggregated species for CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, showing that low crystallinity enhances activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering full hydrolysis and leaching in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage, ensuring durability. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR under vacuum reveal the spatial proximities and coordination of boron species. NMR and IR results suggest that boron sites in MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope labeling confirms the importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction. This feature provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group but lacks detectable B[OHO(H)-Si]2 species, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolites create 3-D dispersed active sites for high propane conversion and propene selectivity. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template, has rich pores and high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, while ethane ODH requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing their potential in catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron incorporation into porous frameworks, like carbon nanofibers (CNFs), enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. B-doped CNFs show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the best results at equal conversion rates. The effectiveness of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion is noted, though specific methods for B incorporation and their relative effectiveness for various catalytic applications are not discussed in detail.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer, bridging cordierite substrate and boron oxide. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, exhibits oxidation resistance and potential as a catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability, with catalytic activity attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. This suggests that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, with a 12.4% conversion rate and 85.1% selectivity, achieving 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 productivity. This is over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, while electrospinning allows for adjustable properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion, and the one-dimensional structure boosts conversion by exposing active sites. SiO2 support's anchoring effect and abundant OH groups promote h-BN dispersity and stability. Under high space velocity, the well-dispersed h-BN in nanofibers enhances catalytic efficiency by improving mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, enhancing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance propane ODH catalysis. Their defective sites and large porosity provide ample active centers. Solid-state NMR confirms open coordination boron sites, crucial for active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, improving catalytic performance. Incorporation methods, such as embryonic zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. Electrospinning is effective for incorporating boron components into porous frameworks, advantageous for catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure, indicating superior propylene selectivity of PBSN-3 over B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates ethylene formation when oxygen is introduced, with a reaction order of oxygen approaching 0.5, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and porous framework. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the catalyst's excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendliness. The synthesis method, which involves tertiary aggregation, simplifies the process and maximizes the use of hollow spheres. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free option for high-temperature applications. The reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species exist as isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, yet this material is inactive for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that the ODH of propane does not proceed over isolated BO3 sites but likely requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, B410.4C, B2O3, and BPO4, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic ability, as shown by the BOS catalyst. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. A B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere, for instance, remained stable and showed high C3H6 productivity in ODH of propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has gained attention in propane ODH due to its high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN showed 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a crucial role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, creating more N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and the compromised effect between B/N ratio increase and decreased specific surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized using hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, with boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as precursors and template, respectively. The tri-coordinated surface boron species act as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The ordered macroporous structure, an inverse replica of the template with 200 nm interconnected macropores, ensures structural stability and increased catalytic efficiency. The content of tri-coordinated boron species rises from 41% to 51% after the reaction, indicating their role in propane ODH. The interconnected macropores, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 in BPO4(OM) facilitate mass transfer and accessibility of active sites, leading to improved catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by these factors, suggesting that methods used to incorporate B components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, highlighting the role of boron in catalysis. Defect boron sites, particularly aggregated species, are key for CH bond activation in propane. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and ensuring durability. Spectroscopic methods confirm the presence of isolated boron species, which proceed to hydrolysis to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW exhibits boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport during reactions. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving excellent olefin selectivity. These structures improve molecular diffusion, heat transfer, and catalytic performance for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized hydrothermally, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra reveal boron's framework insertion, with trigonal (BO3) and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 sites are active for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to more energetic demands on primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives, promoting h-BN production. The h-BN foam's gas trapping capacity allows for precise pressure control, favoring the oriented bowl-like structure. Prepared at high temperatures, pure h-BN foam with a hierarchically porous structure excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, as boron covers pore walls without blocking them. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The literature does not critically evaluate methods for incorporating B active components into these structures for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, feature SiO2 as a media layer bridging cordierite substrate and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels support high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. Catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam's assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst enhances mass transfer, allowing active sites to be easily exposed. This results in a productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C, outperforming most reported boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, thus improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing reaction order. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are vital for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron components into the porous framework, beneficial for catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. PBSN catalysts, 100-150 nm in diameter, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are introduced. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst's surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered in B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity for enhanced catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, showing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This metal-free catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, demonstrating the effectiveness of B-based materials in high-temperature catalytic applications. The synthesis method simplifies the process, avoiding the need for template removal and active site addition, making it a promising approach for the development of eco-friendly and cost-effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, falsifying the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains predominantly isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks ODH conversion of propane. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. The conclusion is that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic selectivity. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2 plasma treatment on BN creates more N-defects, enhancing catalytic activity, as evidenced by 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects facilitate propane conversion. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash exhibit similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface area and activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% after catalysis, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, compared to 22 m2/g for bulk BPO4. The framework's structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and XRD patterns, supports its catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. Improved kinetic diffusion to reactive sites results in significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure, indicating the crucial role of these factors in catalytic activity. Incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications may depend on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, affecting activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, offering insights into boron's catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in zeolites are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated species, identified by BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active, enhancing propane's CH bond activation. Low crystallinity in BMFI catalysts enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage. While inert in some contexts, isolated boron in BS-1 zeolite exhibits high ODHP activity. Spatial proximities between B and H species are revealed through 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectra, and FTIR identifies framework boron species. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups playing a critical role. This reversible process and the confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contribute to reaction activity. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, distinguishing it from other species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieving high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. These structures improve catalytic performance for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed the presence of boron in the framework, with bands at 1405 and 926 cm1 corresponding to trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. The defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, crucial for h-BN production. The h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, has a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives controls the foam's gas trapping capacity, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating effective pore diffusion. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV). The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, achieving a high propylene space time yield by suppressing overoxidation. These methods effectively incorporate B active components for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance catalytic performance due to active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows for easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability and promotes h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber catalyst improves catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. Increasing h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits high productivity in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting its catalytic efficiency. This results in a significant increase in propene selectivity to 28% and improved propene production by 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions boost propane activation, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks. Preparation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite incorporation are effective for catalytic applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in alkanes' ODH. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm SiO2's amorphous nature and B2O3's high dispersion. B2O3/gel allows B2O3 aggregation. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, providing a large surface area and high loading capacity. This unique structure, enhanced by tertiary aggregation, supports melted B2O3 as an active species for propane oxidative dehydrogenation at high temperatures, showing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making B2O3@BPO4 a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalysis, while its low cost and eco-friendly properties highlight the trend towards nonmetal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms the presence of BO3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites likely require B-O-B connectivity. This understanding necessitates the synthesis of materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation to identify the requirements for active site formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, improves heat and mass transfer. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a high surface area. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has gained attention in propane ODH due to its high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN showed 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects facilitating conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating more N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, respectively, due to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio and surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits a robust framework with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous structure, formed by the inverse templating effect of polymer spheres, consists of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels, facilitating mass transfer and active site accessibility. The BPO4 framework demonstrates excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction. The interconnected and open macropores significantly improve kinetic diffusion to reactive sites, resulting in a higher yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order (1-3). This indicates that methods of B incorporation can impact catalytic activity and selectivity, making the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading critical for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    