Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting the role of boron in catalysis. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are essential for ODHP, with aggregated boron species more effective in propane activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enhanced activity and olefin productivity, enriching defect boron sites, which are key to superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, hindering full hydrolysis and boron leaching in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage, ensuring durability. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis under vacuum at various temperatures reveal the spatial proximities and framework boron species, respectively. Boron sites within the MFI zeolite framework can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse into SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. This feature provides active species while preventing full hydrolysis and dissolution, enhancing durability. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group but lacks detectable B[OHO(H)-Si]2 species, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, leading to high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3@BPO4 composites, with molten boron oxide as a homogeneous catalyst, show high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, exhibits excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites, synthesized via modified hydrothermal methods, exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirm boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range (560-590 C) due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment is crucial for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, aiding the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping in porous frameworks, like carbon nanofibers (CNFs), enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped CNFs exhibit higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor show the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 serves as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more reaction sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit superior catalytic performance in propane conversion to propylene, achieving a 12.4% conversion and 85.1% selectivity, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. Its one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading positively impacts propane conversion, proving that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's olefins productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small surface fraction. This leads to a significant increase in propene selectivity and improved production, with maximum efficiency at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a dispersed sub-monolayer deposition. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, suggesting covalent bonding to the CNT structure, which acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order. These structural features of B-based materials in porous frameworks boost catalytic performance, offering more active sites and improved mass transfer. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. B2O3 species are highly dispersed in the fiber structure, unlike the aggregated B2O3 in B2O3/gel catalysts. PBSN-3 exhibits higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. Oxygen's reaction order of 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, a B-based material with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, was synthesized via a one-step template-free method, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, improving catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of nonmetal catalysts in high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are required. Detailed characterization by NMR spectroscopy confirms B-MWW's boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in ODH reactions due to their unique structural characteristics. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a robust macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN excels in propane ODH due to high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN achieves 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. N2 plasma enhances defect creation, shifting peak position and widening full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface area and activity, possibly due to B-H species suppression and a balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a hard template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure that is an inverse replica of the template. The tri-coordinated surface boron species are the active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores, and the presence of tri-coordinated boron species enhance catalytic efficiency. The interconnected macropores, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, allow for better mass transfer and accessibility of active sites, leading to improved catalytic performance under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern before and after the reaction. The specific surface areas of BPO4(OM) and BPO4(bulk) are 75 and 22 m2 g-1, respectively, further supporting the catalytic advantages of the ordered macroporous structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by these factors, suggesting that the methods used for B incorporation can significantly affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, highlighting the role of boron in catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated species enhance CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization creates hydrogen-bonded defect sites, crucial for superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. 2D HETCOR spectra reveal spatial proximities between B and H species, and FTIR identifies isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Boron sites within MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the BOSiOx linkage provides active species while hindering hydrolysis and dissolution, ensuring durability. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group but lacks detectable B[OHO(H)-Si]2 species, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure, achieving 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity; SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures; and B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts with up to 10 wt% B loading, showing excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. These structures enhance catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores. FT-IR confirmed boron's framework incorporation, with trigonal BO3 identified as active sites for propane ODH to propylene. Ethane ODH required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layered structure with face-to-face openings. Adjusting Cu(NO3)2 additives controls the opening size, aiding hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN improves gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foam, facilitating precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like structure opening. High-temperature preparation of pure h-BN foam results in a hierarchically porous structure, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion. Using boric acid as the B precursor on CNFs yields the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion. The literature lacks detailed evaluation of incorporation methods for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the creation of a well-structured catalyst. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity under high GHSV, with minimal CO2 production. These characteristics make the incorporation methods effective for various catalytic applications, notably oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups formed from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. One-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability and h-BN dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in nanofibers boosts catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows superior productivity compared to most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, thus improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating catalytic performance enhancement. Preparation of these zeolites is an effective method for incorporating B active components, suitable for propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations, guaranteeing high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination in air, showing a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 catalyst demonstrates higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed into the chamber. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen may dissociate on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, achieving high productivity and stability at 550 C. This method, which involves tertiary aggregation, simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making B2O3@BPO4 a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3, with its melting point of 450 C, is an eco-friendly and cost-effective alternative to metal-based catalysts. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts in activity, selectivity, and stability, making it suitable for use as a supported liquid-phase catalyst (SPLC) at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. In B-MWW, the majority of boron species are isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, yet the material lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, contains a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, characterized by solid-state NMR as predominantly isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW does not exhibit propane ODH conversion. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that boron-catalyzed propane ODH requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, vital for industrialization. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, surpassing metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects crucial for conversion. Plasma treatment, specifically N2 plasma, induces more defects in BN, evidenced by blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and slightly increased B/N ratios, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to suppressed B-H species and Ar-BN's unchanged activity to the balance between B/N ratio and specific surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits a robust framework with interconnected macropores. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites, increase from 41% to 51% in the spent catalyst, indicating their role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The ordered macroporous structure, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores, ensures structural stability and better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, leading to a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by these factors, highlighting their importance in catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, being more active than isolated units. Low crystallinity enriches these sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity at lower temperatures. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH are identified as the active center for ODHP at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. Spatial proximities between B and H species in BS-1 are revealed by 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectra. FTIR identifies framework boron species, and NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forming B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups boosts catalysis, reversible to SiOB linkage. Hydroxyl groups are crucial, confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, offer numerous sites for B species and regulate mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve high olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonally and tetrahedrally coordinated boron, indicating successful framework insertion. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, while ethane ODH required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the higher energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic potential due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, aiding precise pressure control for oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, specifically boosting selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading and calcination temperature impact B speciation and catalytic conversion. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher propene selectivity than pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions. The type of B precursor affects selectivity, with boric acid yielding the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These characteristics make the method effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion. SiO2 support improves stability and promotes h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. h-BN loading affects propane conversion linearly, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows superior productivity in the ODHP reaction compared to most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% and improving production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating covalent bonding and thermal stability against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites from the defect-rich structure, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, improving propane activation. Incorporation methods, like the preparation of embryonic borosilicate zeolite, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm amorphous SiO2 and high B2O3 dispersion. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity over B2O3/gel. Oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface during ethane and propane ODH. Electrospinning is an effective method for incorporating boron into porous frameworks, crucial for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and activity. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane oxidative dehydrogenation at high temperatures, achieving productivity up to 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550 C. This metal-free catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, making it a promising eco-friendly option for high-temperature catalytic applications. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, optimizing catalytic performance. The synthesis process, involving primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leads to the formation of a sandwich-like hollow sphere structure, maximizing the utilization of the support. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes at high temperatures make it suitable for use as a high-temperature supported liquid-phase catalyst (SPLC) when supported by a suitable material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. In B-MWW, boron predominantly exists as isolated BO3 units within the zeolite framework, but this material is catalytically inactive for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains primarily framework species as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, its lack of catalytic activity indicates that isolated BO3 sites are not sufficient for propane ODH. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, suggesting that B-O-B connectivity is required for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, such as h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, have unique structural characteristics that enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN can be synthesized through various methods, increasing surface area and active sites. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic performance, while BPO4 developed into a three-dimensional ordered macroporous material exhibits excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporation methods, including impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications. The preparation of a boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalyst improves heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown exceptional olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates. The resulting structure, with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter, significantly boosts catalytic activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), achieving a 2100-fold increase in olefin productivity. Tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as the active sites for ODH. The synthesis method yields a stable and selective catalyst with a homogeneous distribution of B, O, and P elements. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The framework exhibits excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The content of tri-coordinated boron species increases from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent catalysts, indicating their role in ODH. The interconnected macropores, formed through the inverse templating effect of polymer spheres, facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, indicating the importance of these factors in catalytic activity and selectivity. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications is thus dependent on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, being more active than isolated B(OSi)3 units. Defect boron sites are essential for ODHP, and incomplete crystallization enriches these sites, enhancing catalytic activity at low temperatures. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity show superior activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. NMR and IR analyses reveal spatial proximities between B and H species and confirm the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope-labeled experiments highlight the importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction. The B-MWW's monohydroxyl group supports the active site of dihydroxyl boron species, and the zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics achieve excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Doping B species into zeolite frameworks results in high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane due to its large surface area and numerous mesopores.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with trigonal BO3 structures identified as active sites for propane ODH to propylene. Ethane ODH required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like propane dehydrogenation and pollutant removal. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN monolithic foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess hierarchically porous structures, significantly improving catalytic efficiency and environmental remediation capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation compared to pristine CNFs. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type influence B speciation and catalytic conversion, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The literature lacks detailed evaluation of B incorporation methods for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are created using a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, suggesting that the dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to its one-dimensional structure. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits better efficiency, enhancing mass transfer and active site exposure. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. At 500°C and 48,000 ml/gcat/h, the catalyst's olefins productivity is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociative adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. This effect, observed at a low 0.003wt% loading, indicates a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases, improving production, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with minor outer surface coverage, indicating a dispersed sub-monolayer. Thermal stability of doped samples suggests covalent bonding to CNTs, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, improving propane activation. Incorporation methods, like the preparation of embryonic zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, demonstrating the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion issues and ensure high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. SiOH groups in silica-supported catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning and calcination, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneously distributed elements. B2O3 species are highly dispersed, unlike aggregated B2O3 in B2O3/gel catalysts. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen is added. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its surface dissociation in ethane and propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcases a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure, featuring tertiary aggregation, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's selective oxidative dehydrogenation to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3, with its low cost and eco-friendly properties, is a significant research trend. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, especially when supported by a suitable material. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its sandwich-like structure, maximizes the utilization of planar supports, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, with boron as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites in active materials under reaction conditions makes precise identification of active sites challenging. Synthesized B-MWW, confirmed by X-ray diffraction and N2 physisorption, contains primarily framework species as evidenced by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, its lack of catalytic activity indicates that isolated BO3 sites are insufficient for propane ODH. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, suggesting that active sites require B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like mechanical or chemical exfoliation, CVD, and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and exposes more active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on high specific area mesoporous silica, improves catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework of corner-sharing BO4 and PO4 tetrahedra, can be developed into a three-dimensional ordered macroporous material, enhancing activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Spectroscopy shows three-boron center N-defects are key for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios, with O2-BN-wash-spent generating oxygen-containing boron species akin to N2-BN-spent, leading to comparable catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, despite having a high oxygen concentration and matching B/N ratio.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure and tri-coordinated boron species significantly boost catalytic efficiency, with olefin productivity up to 2100 times higher than reported ODH catalysts. The BPO4 framework shows excellent structural stability during propane ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns before and after the reaction. The interconnected macropores facilitate mass transfer, making active sites easily accessible and enhancing catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure. These findings suggest that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading. Studies on boron oxide supported on silica with different pore structures confirm that these factors impact the apparent propane reaction order, indicating that incorporation methods can affect catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites, as active catalysts in ODHP, highlight the importance of boron centers. Defect boron sites, particularly aggregated species, are more efficient in propane activation than isolated units. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups, are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enhanced activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites, hydrogen bonded to silanols, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with the BOSiOx linkage hindering full hydrolysis and boron leaching, ensuring durability. FTIR and NMR results suggest boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without the framework. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into porous frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure, enhancing mass transport and catalytic performance for propane conversion. SBA-15 zeolite with a 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramics with high B loading show excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. The 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with some mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonally and tetrahedrally coordinated boron, indicating successful incorporation into the framework. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, combined with h-BN, improves gas trapping in B2O3 foam, favoring oriented bowl openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading and calcination temperature impact B speciation and catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the B precursor show the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, feature SiO2 as a media layer bridging cordierite and boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic performance at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity with negligible CO2 production under high GHSV, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. Dispersing boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites for reactions and improving catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalyst's stability and activity are attributed to the interaction between h-BN and SiO2 support, with abundant OH groups promoting h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Higher propane conversion in h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers is due to the one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Stability is superior due to the SiO2 anchoring effect. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's efficiency is enhanced by mass transfer, and h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading. This enhances propene production, with maximum efficiency at 0.01wt% B2O3. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a thin coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bond that provides thermal stability and resistance to oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the presence of open-coordinate boron sites, crucial for ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, increasing propane's reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating enhanced catalytic activity. Preparation methods for these zeolites prove effective for catalytic applications, particularly in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other supported boron oxide catalysts in olefin selectivity and stability. Electrospinning is effective for incorporating boron into porous frameworks, benefiting catalytic applications like ODH of ethane and propane. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, are produced by electrospinning, ensuring uniform boron dispersion. The open pore structure of one-dimensional nanofibers prevents diffusion limitation and maintains high activity at high WHSV in ODH processes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher propylene selectivity and stability than other catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are synthesized by electrospinning followed by calcination, showing a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are introduced. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure, featuring tertiary aggregation, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation at high temperatures. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal B2O3 as a catalyst is a research trend due to its low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite, with its high-temperature stability and selectivity, follows Eley-Rideal kinetics and shows second-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure, making it a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms the presence of trigonal-planar boron species, primarily B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. The ODH of propane over boron-based catalysts requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized by various methods. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, facilitated by three-boron center N-defects. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating enhanced N-defect creation. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically BPO4, enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric and phosphoric acids and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, BPO4 exhibits an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability, evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes and identical XRD patterns pre- and post-reaction, supports its effectiveness in catalytic applications. The presence of abundant tri-coordinated boron species and the interconnected macropores significantly improve the yield through enhanced kinetic diffusion to reactive sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, impacting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This suggests that methods of incorporation can affect catalytic activity and selectivity for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, identified as active centers for efficient CH bond activation at low temperatures. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are essential for catalysis. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches these defect sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions regulates crystallinity, with incomplete crystallization promoting superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, while FTIR identifies framework boron species. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, with hydroxyl groups crucial for the reaction. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure enhances reaction activity. B-MWW exhibits monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor mesopores, as confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron's presence in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to more energetic demands on primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface area, porosity, and buffer space, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in B2O3 foam, aiding precise pressure control for bowl-like structure orientation. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, improving selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor affect catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion, demonstrating the effectiveness of boron incorporation methods for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 serves as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3, facilitating the incorporation of boron oxide. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low B2O3 loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. Catalytic activity stems from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing active sites and stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling facilitates dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to one-dimensional structure. Superior stability is attributed to SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers enhances catalytic efficiency under high space velocity by improving mass transfer. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, proving diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts show remarkable productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C and high space velocity, surpassing most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 dissociative adsorption. This effect is observed even at low loadings, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity increases significantly, while the reaction rate slightly decreases, optimizing propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor coating on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as an oxidation-resistant backbone.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) effectively. Its defect-rich structure facilitates the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure enhances propane activation, increasing the reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30, demonstrating the catalytic benefits of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites. Preparation methods like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. Electrospinning followed by calcination in air effectively incorporates boron components. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in PBSN catalysts. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene with oxygen. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting surface dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and porous framework. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, contributing to the composite's excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to a stable and active catalyst. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising metal-free option for high-temperature applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, a material with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is needed. B-MWW was synthesized and characterized by NMR spectroscopy, showing boron predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to silanol groups. Despite sufficient boron loading, B-MWW lacks propane ODH activity. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that active sites require some degree of B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, and solid-state reactions, improves heat and mass transfer. B4C, with a rhombohedral phase, offers high catalytic activity. B2O3, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts selectivity in propane ODH. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in propane ODH. Incorporation methods like impregnation and CVD effectively integrate B components for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has gained attention in propane ODH due to its high olefin selectivity. N2-treated BN showed 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a crucial role. N2 plasma induces more defects, blue-shifting the peak position in N2-BN relative to BN, indicating more N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion. However, O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance by improving mass transport and active site accessibility. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% after reaction, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, provides a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The framework's structural stability during ODH, unchanged macropore sizes, and identical XRD patterns before and after reaction, along with the retention of tri-coordinated boron species, contribute to improved kinetic diffusion and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene decreases with the confinement of active boron sites, and the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane pressure. These findings suggest that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites and aggregated species enhancing catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units are inactive, whereas aggregated boron, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active centers. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, achieved by adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures due to enriched defect boron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic techniques reveal spatial proximities between B and H species and confirm the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. NMR and IR results suggest that boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction. The confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure also contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks have high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport during reactions. Loading B components on 3-D porous structures or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite with a 3-D straight-channel structure for gas-phase radical reactions, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting low-temperature activity and efficiency in catalyzing light alkanes. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb ceramic catalysts allow high B loading, improving olefin selectivity and minimizing CO2 production. Zeolite frameworks doped with B species create 3-D dispersion, enhancing activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, has rich pores and high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesoporosity, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron insertion into the framework, with trigonal BO3 structures identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic potential due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space. BN@BPO4 monolithic foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This adjustment is critical for hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The generated h-BN improves gas trapping in the B2O3 environment, aiding precise pressure control and oriented bowl-like structure opening. Pure h-BN monolithic foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effectiveness influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as a precursor exhibit the highest propene selectivity at equal conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production under high gas velocity, leading to a high propylene space time yield. This method is particularly effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a metal-free material rich in boron sites, exhibits good oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, making it a potential catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance. The dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites for reactions and improving catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5x higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst showed higher propane conversion than bulk h-BN due to its structure facilitating active site exposure. Stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofiber structure improves catalytic efficiency under high space velocity, enhancing mass transfer. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociation, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. At a low 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalently bonded, thermally stable structure that resists oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing reaction order. This highlights the catalytic advantage of B-based materials with 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, achieved through methods like embryonic zeolite preparation, effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, with their one-dimensional nanofiber structure, prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSN exhibits higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning followed by calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, showing excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The method avoids the tedious process of traditional supported catalyst preparation. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalysis, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their eco-friendly properties and low cost. The B2O3@BPO4 composite's reaction follows Eley-Rideal kinetics, demonstrating second-order rate dependence with respect to propane's partial pressure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces oxidizing and hydrolyzing under reaction conditions to form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, primarily contains isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, adjacent to silanol groups, as confirmed by 11B solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, such as B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, unlike stable B-MWW. This suggests that the ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods like CVD and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust framework, exhibits high activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN excels in propane ODH due to its high olefin selectivity. N2 plasma treatment on BN enhances catalytic activity, achieving 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. Spectroscopy reveals three-boron center N-defects as pivotal for propane conversion. N2 plasma induces more defects in BN, shifting the peak position and expanding the full width at half-maximum, indicating increased N-defects. O2-BN-wash and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as the active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), with their content increasing from 41% to 51% after the reaction, indicating their role in catalysis. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, while the bulk counterpart has 22 m2 g-1. The framework shows excellent structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals. The interconnected macropores, bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm, facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The BPO4(OM) catalyst retains its structure and active sites, as evidenced by an identical XRD pattern and FTIR, NMR, and XPS measurements post-reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components for various catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is influenced by these factors, highlighting their crucial role in catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    