Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, explaining how these features enhance catalytic performance, and critically evaluate the methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures, discussing their relative effectiveness for different catalytic applications.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Structural characteristics, catalytic advantages, and incorporation methods of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks for enhanced catalytic applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species at defect sites being more active than isolated B(OSi)3 units. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with low crystallinity, enriched with hydrogen-bonded defect boron sites, exhibit superior activity and olefin productivity, demonstrating the effectiveness of incomplete crystallization in enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers exhibits high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. NMR and IR results suggest boron sites can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. B-MWW has monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species' activity. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into the framework creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight-channel structures for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and B2O3@BPO4 composites for high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites and 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate synthesized with a hard template method improve molecular diffusion and heat transfer. The 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane ODH to propylene, while ethane ODH required a higher temperature range of 560-590 C due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area and porous structure, ideal for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings by varying Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in the B2O3 environment foam, controlling pressure differentials and promoting oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with effectiveness influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low boron oxide loading, shows high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and stability. The catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, indicating that the dispersion of boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission, while electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. The catalysts showed superior stability, likely due to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Well-dispersed h-BN in the nanofibers improved catalytic efficiency under high space velocity, enhancing mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosted propane conversion, indicating diffusion was not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperformed most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 dissociative adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface (Quote 1). This effect is observed even at low loadings of 0.003wt%, indicating high catalytic activity from a small fraction of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity increases significantly, improving production efficiency (Quote 3). Maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt% (Quote 4). B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with abundant defective sites and large porosity, catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing reaction order. These structural characteristics enhance catalytic performance, providing more active sites and improving mass transfer. Incorporation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite preparation, are effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. Electrospinning is effective for incorporating boron components into porous frameworks for catalytic applications. The presence of SiOH groups may affect propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination, with TEM and XRD confirming the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. The reaction order of oxygen suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow spheres, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity and stability at high temperatures. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a research trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties. The B2O3@BPO4 composite outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks for high-temperature catalytic applications. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leading to the formation of the sandwich-like hollow sphere structure. This method allows for the best use of both sides of hollow spheres, maximizing catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface oxidizes and hydrolyzes, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. To understand active site formation, materials with controlled boron oxide speciation are needed. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy confirms that B-MWW contains primarily framework species, with boron existing as isolated B(OSi)3 units adjacent to a silanol group. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that B-O-B connectivity is likely required for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, offers a robust framework. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN's high olefin selectivity in propane ODH highlights its catalytic advantage over metal oxides. N2 plasma treatment on BN creates more N-defects, as evidenced by spectroscopy showing three-boron center N-defects' pivotal role in propane conversion. N2-BN exhibits 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C. The peak position in N2-BN is blue-shifted relative to BN, indicating more N-defects due to in-plane strain strengthening and interlayer interaction weakening. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface area and compromised activity, likely from B-H species suppression and the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, the BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increasing from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and leading to better catalytic efficiency and improved yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene decreases with the confinement of active boron sites, indicating the influence of pore structure on catalytic activity. The apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is affected by the pore structure of supports, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, highlighting the role of these factors in catalytic performance. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications is dependent on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, highlighting the role of boron in catalysis and the construction of active centers. Defect boron sites, not isolated B(OSi)3 units, are essential for ODHP, with aggregated boron species excelling in propane activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are active for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Lower crystallinity, achieved by adjusting synthesis conditions, enhanced activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures by enriching defect boron sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with BOSiOx linkages preventing full hydrolysis and enhancing durability. Spectroscopic techniques reveal spatial proximities and framework boron species, crucial for catalytic performance. NMR and IR results suggest hydrolysis forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. Isotope-labeled experiments confirm hydroxyl groups' importance. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity. These findings highlight the role of boron sites and hydroxyl groups in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for improved mass transport, SBA-15 zeolite anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures, and 3-D h-BN bowl foam for excellent oxidative dehydrogenation of propane activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with minor interstitial mesopores, as indicated by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron insertion into the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) served as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantage of B-based materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and applications in environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, combined with hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), improves gas trapping and pressure control, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, prepared at high temperatures, demonstrates a hierarchically porous structure, excelling in catalytic propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume. Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, showing higher propene selectivities for B-doped CNFs compared to pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks are prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, where SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and B2O3. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high GHSV and efficient pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, at low B2O3 loading, exhibits high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a B-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkanes' oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, are the source of catalytic activity, suggesting that dispersing boron sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, showed 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, achieving 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 productivity, over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing catalytic activity. Stability is attributed to SiO2 support anchoring effect. Higher h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. Under high space velocity, the nanofiber catalyst exhibits better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer and exposed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption. Even at 0.003wt% loading, it demonstrates catalytic activity, significantly increasing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, thus improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is strategically deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction coating the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order. This structure enhances catalytic performance, offering more active sites and improved mass transfer. Incorporating B components, like preparing embryonic zeolite, is effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts, obtained by electrospinning and calcination, show a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produces ethylene when oxygen and ethane are pulsed together. Oxygen reaction order of 0.5 in ethane and propane ODH suggests molecular oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, showcases enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites and porous framework. The unique structure, featuring BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, which boosts catalytic activity and stability at high temperatures. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves a novel tertiary aggregation phenomenon, contributing to the formation of stable and active catalysts. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, making it a promising eco-friendly alternative for high-temperature catalytic applications. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts, like B2O3, is a growing trend due to their low cost and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface oxidizes, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, synthesized with a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%, contains isolated BO3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework, as confirmed by solid-state NMR spectroscopy. However, B-MWW shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, contradicting the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. This dynamic nature of boron sites in active catalysts, unlike the stable B-MWW, suggests that B-O-B connectivity is crucial for catalytic activity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves surface area and active sites. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica boosts catalytic performance. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and CVD, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN, with 3-D dispersed active sites, excels in propane ODH due to high olefin selectivity. N2 plasma enhances BN's catalytic activity by creating more N-defects, crucial for propane conversion. N2-BN shows 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity stems from BN nanosheet sintering, reducing active B sites' utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas and unchanged or low activity, attributed to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio and surface area.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "BPO4, synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, forms an ordered macroporous structure with interconnected pores averaging 200 nm in diameter. This structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, has a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, enhancing mass transport and accessibility of tri-coordinated boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The content of these active sites increases from 41% to 51% after catalysis, indicating their role in enhanced catalytic performance. The ordered macroporous framework exhibits excellent structural stability, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, and identical XRD patterns before and after the reaction. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, improving catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The formation rate of propylene and the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3, are influenced by the pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure. These findings suggest that the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into these structures for different catalytic applications depends on the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), highlighting boron's catalytic activity. Isolated B(OSi)3 units in B-MWW zeolite are inactive, whereas defect boron sites and aggregated species enhance CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are key for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were synthesized, with low crystallinity enhancing activity and olefin productivity. Incomplete crystallization enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability in humid conditions due to the BOSiOx linkage. The framework's confinement effect and the presence of hydroxyl groups are crucial for catalysis, enabling the formation of B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups that boost catalytic performance. The B-MWW structure, with a monohydroxyl group, supports the active site of dihydroxyl boron species, further illustrating the role of boron in catalytic applications. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and NMR results confirm the importance of boron species in zeolite frameworks for catalysis, highlighting the reversible nature of the SiOB linkage and the impact of the zeolite microporous structure on reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and achieve 16.8% propane conversion and 82.1% propene selectivity. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3@BPO4 composites, with molten boron oxide, exhibit high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolites create 3-D dispersed active sites for efficient propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized via a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores and a small proportion of mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified trigonally and tetrahedrally coordinated boron, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantages of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing their catalytic potential and environmental remediation capabilities. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, particularly the pure h-BN foam prepared at high temperatures, boasts a multimodal hierarchically porous architecture, excelling in catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's coverage of pore walls in carbon nanofibers (CNFs) increases surface area and volume, enhancing catalytic performance. B-doped CNFs show higher selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation than pristine CNFs, with boric acid as the precursor yielding the best selectivity at equal conversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were studied, demonstrating the importance of these factors in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, shows promise as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high-temperature oxidation resistance and antioxidant ability, ensuring catalytic stability. The catalytic activity originates from BOH groups formed with steam assistance, suggesting that 3-D dispersed boron sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance by providing more active sites and improving stability under high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. The electrospinning method allows for easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN in propane conversion. The one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. Superior stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows better efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits high productivity under 500C and high space velocity, surpassing most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 dissociative adsorption. This effect is observed even at low loadings, indicating high catalytic activity of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity notably increases, while the reaction rate slightly decreases, optimizing propene production. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 predominantly deposits in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, ensuring good thermal stability and covalent bonding to the CNT structure, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, specifically embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) due to their large porosity and defective sites. Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites, ensuring ample exposure of active centers. This structure facilitates gas-phase reactions, significantly increasing propane activation. Incorporation methods, like the preparation of these zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly in enhancing propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis creates PBSN catalysts with uniform boron dispersion and stability on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers prevent diffusion issues and ensure high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts outperform other boron oxides in olefin selectivity and stability. The method's effectiveness for incorporating boron components is advantageous for ODH applications. PBSNs, 100-150 nm in diameter, exhibit a porous structure with homogeneous Si, B, and O distribution. XRD patterns confirm amorphous SiO2 and high B2O3 dispersion. PBSN-3 shows superior propylene selectivity over B2O3/gel. Oxygen dissociates on the catalyst surface during ODH of ethane and propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires. This structure provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, enhancing catalytic performance. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's selective oxidative dehydrogenation to propene at high temperatures (>450 C), demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550 C. The synthesis process involves primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, contributing to the formation of the stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalytic applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is an emerging trend due to their low cost and eco-friendly properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that form an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer under reaction conditions. B-MWW, with boron species as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates identifying the active site(s). Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, or solid-state reactions, improves surface area and active site exposure. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica (BOS catalyst) and BPO4 with a robust framework exhibit high selectivity and activity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition are effective for different catalytic applications. A B2O3@BPO4 sandwich-like hollow sphere serves as a stable liquid-phase catalyst in ODH of propane, demonstrating the effectiveness of these materials and methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN has shown high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, with N2-treated BN achieving 26.0% conversion and 89.4% selectivity. N-defects in the catalyst are crucial for propane conversion. N2 plasma creates more defects, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN have decreased surface areas, with H2-BN's low activity attributed to B-H species suppression and Ar-BN's unchanged activity due to a balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species are identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during ODH. The content of tri-coordinated boron species increases from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in propane ODH. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The apparent propane reaction order, influenced by pore structure, B2O3 loading, and propane partial pressure, varies from 1 to 3, indicating the critical role of these factors. Incorporation methods of B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity, with effectiveness dependent on specific pore structure and B2O3 loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being essential for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as active centers for efficient low-temperature ODHP catalysis. Well-dispersed boron species in MFI-type zeolites with regulated crystallinity via hydrothermal synthesis conditions enhance catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Low crystallinity enriches defect boron sites, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum reveals spatial proximities between B and H species, and FTIR identifies isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination. Boron sites within MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, and the confinement effect of the zeolite microporous structure contributes to reaction activity. B-MWW has boron sites with a monohydroxyl group, supporting the active site of dihydroxyl boron species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, characterized by porous structures and high specific surface areas, offer numerous sites for B species and regulate radical reaction behavior and mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure enhance mass transport and catalytic performance. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. 3-D B2O3@BPO4 composites, with molten boron oxide as a homogeneous catalyst, exhibit high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template method, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications. These zeolites exhibit predominantly micropores and some interstitial mesopores, confirmed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra revealed boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful framework incorporation. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) serve as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, highlighting the catalytic advantage of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, making them promising for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. The h-BN enhances gas trapping capacity, aiding in the precise control of pressure differentials and promoting oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a multimodal hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's role in B-based materials enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without blocking pores. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, B-doped carbon nanofibers (CNFs) show higher selectivity to propene than pristine CNFs, influenced by boron loading, calcination temperature, and precursor type. Using boric acid as a precursor maximizes selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, prepared via a two-step wash-coat method, feature SiO2 as a media layer bridging cordierite and B2O3. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels support high GHSV and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, at low B2O3 loading, exhibits high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, are the source of catalytic activity. The dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites for reactions and improving stability under high temperatures. Literature lacks specifics on incorporation methods, but silicon boride's properties highlight the potential of B-based materials in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared via electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows easy adjustment of nanofiber properties. Good interaction between nanoparticles and support ensures activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN facilitates dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion. One-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, enhancing conversion. Superior stability is attributed to SiO2 support anchoring. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers improves catalytic efficiency under high space velocity. h-BN loading linearly increases propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts show high productivity under 500C and high space velocity, surpassing most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface, enhancing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while slightly decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in the cavity and tips of CNTs, with a minor fraction on the outer surface. The doped samples exhibit good thermal stability, indicating covalent bonding to the CNT structure, acting as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolites, with their defective sites and large porosity, effectively catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordination boron sites, ensuring ample active center exposure. This structure facilitates propane activation and enhances catalytic performance. Preparation methods, like embryonic borosilicate zeolite creation, are vital for incorporating B active components, proving effective for ODH and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance in the ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, with their open pore structures, prevent diffusion limitation and maintain high activity at high WHSV. Compared to other boron oxide catalysts, PBSN exhibits higher olefin selectivity and stability. The electrospinning method effectively incorporates boron components into the porous framework, beneficial for catalytic applications. PBSN catalysts, 100-150 nm in diameter, are synthesized by electrospinning followed by calcination. The TEM image of PBSN-3 reveals a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements. XRD patterns indicate the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 species. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. The PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with a mixture of oxygen and ethane, with a reaction order of oxygen approaching 0.5, suggesting surface dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits a unique sandwich-like hollow sphere structure with tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and catalytic activity. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation to propene, showing productivity of 0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1 and high stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, making it a promising eco-friendly option for high-temperature catalytic applications. The structure's large surface area and high loading capacity contribute to its catalytic efficiency, while the simplicity of the synthesis method ensures practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via exfoliation, CVD, and solid-state reactions, increases surface area and active sites. B2O3-supported on mesoporous silica (BOS catalyst) boosts catalytic ability, achieving high selectivity in propane ODH. BPO4, with a robust 3-D framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in propane ODH, converting propane to propylene and ethylene with minimal CO2 production. Incorporation methods like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition effectively tailor these materials for various catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, facilitated by three-boron center N-defects. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, induces more defects in BN, evidenced by a blue-shifted peak position and expanded full width at half-maximum in N2-BN. O2-BN and N2-BN have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface area and activity, possibly from B-H species suppression and the balance between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as a template, BPO4 exhibits an interconnected macroporous structure with an average diameter of 200 nm. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous structure, formed through the inverse templating effect of polymer spheres, consists of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels, confirming macroporosity through mercury intrusion analysis. With a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, BPO4(OM) shows excellent structural stability during propane ODH. The interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, resulting in a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components is influenced by the specific pore structure and B2O3 loading, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Studies indicate that the apparent propane reaction order, varying from 1 to 3, is impacted by these factors, highlighting their crucial role in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with aggregated boron species more effective than isolated ones in CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enriched defect boron sites, enhancing activity and olefin productivity at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), hindered hydrolysis, and superior durability. The 2D 11B1H HETCOR spectrum and FTIR analysis reveal the spatial proximities and framework boron species, respectively. Boron sites within MFI zeolite frameworks can hydrolyze to form B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reverse to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are crucial for the reaction, providing active species while hindering full hydrolysis and dissolution. B-MWW exhibits monohydroxyl boron sites, supporting dihydroxyl boron species as active sites. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into frameworks creates effective 3-D B active sites. Examples include h-BN/cordierite monoliths with straight channels for enhanced mass transport and catalytic performance, and SBA-15 zeolite with a mesoporous structure anchoring boron oxide for high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3@BPO4 composites with molten boron oxide as a homogeneous catalyst exhibit high stability and olefin selectivity. Doped B species in zeolite frameworks result in high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template, improves molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, with modifications to previous methods. These zeolites exhibit predominantly microporous structures with minor mesopores, confirmed by type-I N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. FT-IR spectra identified boron in trigonal and tetrahedral coordination, indicating successful incorporation into the framework. Defective trigonal boron structures (BO3) act as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, while ethane oxidative dehydrogenation requires a higher temperature range due to the energetic demand of primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas and porous frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance and environmental remediation. BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from aligned bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layered structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. This structure, combined with hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), improves gas trapping and pressure control, favoring the oriented opening of bowl-like structures. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume, which is beneficial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Studies show that B-doped CNFs exhibit higher selectivity to propene compared to pristine CNFs at the same reaction temperatures and conversions. The type of B precursor influences selectivity, with boric acid as the precursor providing the highest selectivity at isoconversion. The effects of boron loading and calcination temperature on B speciation and catalytic conversion were also investigated.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. The honeycomb cordierite's straight channels allow for high gas hourly space velocity and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity and minimal CO2 production under high gas velocity, leading to a high propylene space time yield. These characteristics make the method effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like silicon boride, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the dispersion of boron sites, providing more active sites for reactions. Silicon boride, rich in boron, shows good oxidation resistance at high temperatures, making it a potential catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability, with catalytic activity attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, indicating the benefits of boron dispersion for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional structures facilitate active site exposure, enhancing catalytic activity and conversion. The stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. h-BN loading positively impacts propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. Under high space velocity conditions, the nanofiber catalyst shows superior catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure. At 500°C and a space velocity of 48000mlgcat1h1, the catalyst's olefins productivity is remarkably higher than most boron-based catalysts used in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface. Even at 0.003wt% loading, only a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active, enhancing propene selectivity to 28% while slightly decreasing the reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is primarily deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor fraction on the outer surface, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like embryonic borosilicate zeolites with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhance catalytic performance in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms the formation of open-coordinate boron sites from the zeolite's defect-rich structure, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, increasing its reaction order. Preparation methods, such as creating embryonic borosilicate zeolites, are effective for catalytic applications, particularly propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fiber frameworks, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts, produced by electrospinning, exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability compared to other boron oxide catalysts. The presence of SiOH groups may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. TEM images and XRD patterns confirm the amorphous nature of SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in PBSN catalysts, which show superior propylene selectivity. PBSN catalysts are inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but produce ethylene when oxygen is introduced. Oxygen's reaction order suggests its dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, features a unique structure with BPO4 hollow spheres covered by B2O3 nanowires, enhancing catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation. The melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, offering excellent productivity and stability at high temperatures. This method simplifies the incorporation of B active components, making B2O3@BPO4 a promising metal-free catalyst for high-temperature applications, outperforming many metal-based catalysts. The exploitation of nonmetal catalysts like B2O3 is a growing trend due to their eco-friendly properties and low cost. The B2O3@BPO4 composite demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating B active components into porous frameworks with 3-D dispersed active sites, enhancing catalytic performance for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. However, B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Synthesizing materials with controlled, uniform boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. Active boron-based ODH catalysts likely require boron species with some degree of B-O-B connectivity, as evidenced by the lack of restructuring in B-MWW under reaction conditions, unlike catalytically active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites, including h-BN, B4C, B2O3, and BPO4, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN can be synthesized through various methods, increasing surface area and active sites. BPO4, with a robust framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH. B2O3 supported on mesoporous silica improves catalytic performance. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN's high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions highlights its catalytic advantage over metal oxides. N2-treated BN exhibits 26% propane conversion and 89% olefin selectivity, attributed to three-boron center N-defects. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, enhances BN's catalytic activity by inducing more defects, as evidenced by spectroscopy. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash have similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's lower activity is due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. H2-BN and Ar-BN show decreased surface areas and altered B-H species, affecting their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased active site accessibility. Ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4) was synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates. The resulting structure, with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter, is an inverse replica of the template, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increased from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibits excellent structural stability and a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1, compared to 22 m2 g-1 for bulk BPO4. The interconnected macropores, consisting of a matrix bridged by 80 nm ink-bottle neck-like channels, facilitate mass transfer, enhancing catalytic efficiency and yield under high space velocity conditions. The structural stability is evidenced by unchanged macropore sizes, intergrown nanocrystals, and an identical XRD pattern pre and post-catalytic reaction. The active tri-coordinated boron species are retained after the reaction, as confirmed by various spectroscopic measurements.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components depends on the specific pore structure and loading of B2O3, as evidenced by the impact on the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This suggests that methods used to incorporate B active components can significantly affect catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze ODHP, with defect boron sites being key for reaction catalysis, particularly aggregated species for CH bond activation. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are the active center for low-temperature ODHP. BMFI catalysts with varied crystallinity and dispersed boron species were studied for ODHP. Low crystallinity enhanced activity and olefin productivity due to enriched defect boron sites hydrogen-bonded to silanols, showcasing superior catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks without oligomers shows high activity and selectivity for ODHP, enhancing durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and leaching. Spectroscopic analysis confirms the presence of isolated boron species with tetrahedral and trigonal coordination, which are crucial for catalysis. The hydrolysis of boron sites in MFI zeolite frameworks forms B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, boosting catalysis, and reversibly converts to SiOB linkages. Hydroxyl groups are essential for the reaction, as confirmed by isotope labeling. The confinement effect of zeolite microporous structures contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without a zeolite framework. B-MWW with monohydroxyl boron sites supports the active site of dihydroxyl boron species, underscoring the importance of hydroxyl groups.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, providing numerous sites for active B species and regulating mass transport. Loading B components on surfaces or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, achieving high propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@HC-p catalysts with high B loading exhibit excellent olefin selectivity and negligible CO2 production. Zeolites doped with B species show high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized using a hard template, has rich pores and a high surface area, improving molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, demonstrates excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly microporous structures with some interstitial mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's framework insertion, with trigonal BO3 structures identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation required a higher temperature range due to the energy demand for primary CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer enhanced catalytic performance due to their large surface area, porous structure, and buffer hollow space, making them promising for catalysis, environmental remediation, and energy storage. The BN@BPO4 foam, constructed from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibits a double-layer structure with adjustable openings, facilitated by Cu(NO3)2 additives. Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) improves gas trapping capacity, aiding precise pressure control for oriented bowl openings. Pure h-BN foam, with a hierarchically porous structure, demonstrates superior catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron's incorporation into CNFs boosts catalytic performance by expanding surface area and pore volume, enhancing propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading and calcination temperature influence B speciation and catalytic conversion. Using boric acid as the precursor yields the highest propene selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the creation of a B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst. The well-developed channels of honeycomb cordierite enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. At low boron oxide loading, the catalyst demonstrates high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV, making it effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials, like silicon boride, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the dispersion of boron sites, providing more active areas for reactions. Silicon boride, rich in boron, shows good oxidation resistance at high temperatures, making it a potential catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Its antioxidant ability ensures catalytic stability, and the catalytic activity is attributed to BOH groups generated from BO species with steam assistance, indicating the effectiveness of boron dispersion in porous structures for improved catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, exhibit 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity to propylene, with olefins productivity 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance active site exposure and substance transmission. Electrospinning allows adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support for activity, selectivity, and stability. Exfoliated h-BN via ball milling improves dispersion. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts outperform bulk h-BN in propane conversion due to one-dimensional structure facilitating active site exposure. Superior stability is attributed to SiO2 support anchoring effect. Abundant OH groups on SiO2 promote h-BN anchoring and dispersity. Well-dispersed h-BN in one-dimensional nanofibers enhances catalytic efficiency under high space velocity by improving mass transfer. Increasing h-BN loading linearly boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts achieve high olefins productivity under 500C and high space velocity, surpassing most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, inhibits O2 adsorption, sustaining selective oxygen species and enhancing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% at low loadings as low as 0.003wt%. This results in improved propene production. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. B2O3 is predominantly deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer coating, indicating a covalent bonding that provides thermal stability against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order. This highlights the effectiveness of B-based materials' structure for catalysis and the method of B incorporation for ODH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on open silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pores prevent diffusion limitations, guaranteeing high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may lower propylene selectivity during propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are produced by electrospinning followed by calcination, confirmed by TEM and XRD analysis. PBSN-3 shows higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but activates with oxygen. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in both ethane and propane ODH, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits enhanced catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation due to its 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and high loading capacity, increasing active sites and improving mass transfer. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species, demonstrating excellent productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. The synthesis process involves tertiary aggregation, contributing to the formation of stable and active catalysts. B2O3@BPO4 outperforms many metal-based catalysts, showcasing the effectiveness of nonmetal catalysts in high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are recognized as selective catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. Under reaction conditions, their surface oxidizes and hydrolyzes, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. Solid-state NMR spectroscopy reveals that B-MWW, a zeolite framework, contains isolated BO3 units, but it lacks catalytic activity for propane ODH, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active sites. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of active sites. Synthesizing materials with controlled boron oxide speciation is necessary to understand active site formation. B-MWW was synthesized and characterized, showing a boron loading of 1.10.1wt.%. Despite this, B-MWW did not exhibit propane ODH activity. Active B-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. This suggests that active sites require some degree of B-O-B connectivity, not isolated BO3 units.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized via various methods, improves surface area and active site exposure. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts optimize heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron carbide, with a rhombohedral phase, can be synthesized through multiple methods. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic performance. Boron phosphate, with a continuous 3-D framework, can be developed into a robust macroporous material for improved activity and selectivity in ODH reactions. Incorporation methods, such as impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN is noted for its high olefin selectivity in propane ODH reactions, outperforming metal oxides. N2-treated BN achieved 26.0% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a critical role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, increases defect density in BN, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash showed similar catalytic conversion under identical conditions, despite O2-BN's lower activity due to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species, reducing active B site utilization. These findings highlight the importance of defect engineering in B-based materials for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as precursors and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as hard templates, BPO4 exhibits an inverse replica structure with interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), increase from 41% to 51% post-reaction, indicating their catalytic role. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2/g, enhancing mass transfer and catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions. The framework's structural stability during ODH, with unchanged macropore sizes and intergrown nanocrystals, supports its catalytic effectiveness. The interconnected macropores, formed by the inverse templating effect, consist of a matrix bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm in diameter, facilitating improved kinetic diffusion and yield. The BPO4(OM) catalyst retains tri-coordinated boron species after the reaction, as confirmed by spectroscopic measurements, further highlighting their importance in propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks show enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of incorporating B active components, such as B2O3, is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, impacting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. This suggests that the methods used to incorporate B active components can affect catalytic activity and selectivity for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"},
{"DOC": "Borosilicate zeolites catalyze propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with defect boron sites being crucial for reaction catalysis. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, are more efficient in propane CH bond activation and catalyze ODHP at low temperatures. Low crystallinity in boron-containing MFI-type zeolites enriches defect boron sites, enhancing catalytic activity and olefin productivity. Adjusting hydrothermal synthesis conditions regulates crystallinity, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Isolated boron in zeolite frameworks, without oligomers, shows high activity and selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with superior durability due to the BOSiOx linkage that hinders full hydrolysis and boron leaching in humid conditions. The framework's confinement effect and the presence of hydroxyl groups are crucial for catalysis, as they facilitate the formation of B[OHO(H)Si]2 groups, which can reverse into SiOB linkages. This feature provides necessary active species while preventing full hydrolysis and dissolution, enhancing durability. The importance of hydroxyl groups for the reaction is confirmed by isotope-labeled experiments. The zeolite microporous structure's confinement effect contributes to reaction activity, as evidenced by higher energy barriers in models without a zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites feature porous structures and high specific surface areas, offering numerous sites for B species and regulating radical reaction behavior. Loading B components on 3-D porous surfaces or doping them into the framework enhances catalytic performance. h-BN/cordierite monoliths with a 3-D straight-channel structure improve mass transport and catalytic efficiency. SBA-15 zeolite's 3-D mesoporous structure anchors boron oxide active sites, boosting propene selectivity at low temperatures. B2O3/SiO2@cordierite honeycomb catalysts achieve high B loading and excellent olefin selectivity. Zeolites with B species doped into their frameworks exhibit high activity and selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation. 3-D ordered macroporous boron phosphate, synthesized via a hard template method, has rich pores and a high surface area, enhancing molecular diffusion and heat transfer. 3-D h-BN bowl foam, with a large surface area and numerous mesopores, shows excellent activity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_3"},
{"DOC": "Layered borosilicate zeolites were synthesized hydrothermally, featuring predominantly micropores with a small proportion of mesopores. FT-IR spectra confirmed boron's presence in the framework, with trigonal and tetrahedral coordination. BO3 structures were identified as active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, while ethane required a higher temperature range for similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with bowl-like structures offer large surface areas, porous frameworks, and buffer hollow spaces, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like environmental remediation and energy storage. BN@BPO4 monolithic foams, built from oriented bowl-like blocks, exhibit a double-layer structure with adjustable openings via Cu(NO3)2 additives, facilitating hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) production. h-BN enhances gas trapping in liquid B2O3 foams, favoring oriented bowl-like openings. Pure h-BN foams, prepared at high temperatures, possess hierarchically porous structures, excelling in propane oxidative dehydrogenation and organic pollutant removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.156743"},
{"DOC": "Boron doping of carbon nanofibers (CNFs) in porous frameworks enhances catalytic performance by increasing surface area and pore volume without plugging the pores. This modification boosts selectivity to propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Boron loading, calcination temperature, and the type of B precursor influence catalytic conversion. CNFs modified with boric acid as the precursor exhibit the highest selectivity at isoconversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, achieved via a two-step wash-coat method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. SiO2 acts as a media layer between the cordierite substrate and boron oxide, facilitating the incorporation of B active components. Honeycomb cordierite's straight channels enable high gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and effective pore diffusion. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity at low boron oxide loading, achieving high propylene and olefin selectivity, negligible CO2 production, and a high propylene space time yield under high GHSV. These characteristics make the incorporation methods effective for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) and other catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "Silicon boride, a boron-rich material, exhibits high-temperature oxidation resistance, making it a promising catalyst for light alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Its antioxidant properties ensure catalytic stability. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, are the source of catalytic activity. The dispersion of boron active sites in a porous framework enhances catalytic performance by increasing active sites for reactions and improving catalyst stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "A study prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts via electrospinning, achieving 12.4% propane conversion and 85.1% selectivity towards propylene, with olefins productivity at 24.9golefinsgBN1h1, over 5 times higher than bulk ODHP catalysts. One-dimensional nanomaterials enhance catalytic performance due to active site exposure. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber structure facilitates active site exposure, increasing conversion. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the SiO2 support anchoring effect. Under high space velocity conditions, the nanofiber catalyst showed better catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer. The h-BN loading directly impacts propane conversion, proving conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms most boron-based catalysts in the ODHP reaction.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide, as an electron-deficient promoter, sustains selective oxygen species on the catalyst surface by inhibiting O2 adsorption, even at a low 0.003wt% loading, highlighting the catalytic activity of a small fraction of surface functionalities. This leads to a significant increase in propene selectivity, with the maximum productivity achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Amorphous B2O3 is strategically deposited in CNT cavities and tips, with a minor outer surface coating, indicating a covalent bonding that enhances thermal stability and acts as a backbone against oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "Embryonic borosilicate zeolite, with its defective sites and large porosity, catalyzes propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Solid-state NMR confirms open-coordination boron sites, ensuring active center exposure. Enhanced gas-phase reactions activate propane, increasing its reaction order from 1.06 to 2.30. This highlights the catalytic benefits of B-based materials' 3-D active sites in porous frameworks, with effective incorporation methods for diverse applications, notably propane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "Electrospinning synthesis ensures uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on silica fibers, enhancing catalytic performance. One-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high activity at high WHSV in ODH of alkanes. PBSN catalysts exhibit higher olefin selectivity and stability than other boron oxide catalysts. Electrospinning is effective for incorporating boron components into porous frameworks, beneficial for catalytic applications. SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may reduce propylene selectivity in propane ODH. PBSN catalysts are synthesized by electrospinning followed by calcination, showing a porous structure with homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O. XRD patterns indicate amorphous SiO2 and high dispersion of B2O3 in the fiber structure. PBSN-3 has higher propylene selectivity than B2O3/gel. PBSN catalyst is inactive for ethane dehydrogenation alone but forms ethylene with oxygen. The reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5 in ODH of ethane and propane, suggesting molecular oxygen dissociation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "B2O3@BPO4, synthesized via a one-step template-free method, exhibits tertiary aggregation, enhancing its stability and activity. Melted B2O3, supported by BPO4, acts as an active species for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high productivity (0.79 gC3H6 gcat-1 h-1) and stability at 550°C. This nonmetal catalyst outperforms many metal-based alternatives, making it a promising eco-friendly option for high-temperature catalytic applications. The unique structure, consisting of BPO4 hollow spheres covered with B2O3 nanowires, provides a large surface area and efficient mass transfer, crucial for catalytic performance. The synthesis process, involving primary, secondary, and tertiary aggregations, leads to the formation of a stable and active catalyst. B2O3's melting point and viscosity changes make it suitable for high-temperature catalysis, especially when supported by a suitable material like BPO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.028"},
{"DOC": "Boron-containing materials are highly selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins, with surfaces that oxidize and hydrolyze under reaction conditions, forming an amorphous B2(OH)xO(3x/2) layer. B-MWW, with boron species primarily as isolated BO3 units in the zeolite framework, shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane, disproving the hypothesis that isolated BO3 units are the active site. The dynamic nature of boron sites under reaction conditions complicates the identification of the active site(s). Active boron-based ODH catalysts, unlike stable B-MWW, contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, indicating that boron-catalyzed ODH of propane requires boron species with B-O-B connectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201914696"},
{"DOC": "Boron-based materials, including h-BN, boron carbide, boron oxide, and boron phosphate, with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, enhance catalytic performance in ODH reactions. h-BN, synthesized through various methods, increases surface area and active sites. Boron nitride wash-coated monolithic catalysts improve heat and mass transfer, crucial for industrialization. Boron oxide, supported on mesoporous silica, boosts catalytic ability. Boron phosphate, with a robust three-dimensional framework, exhibits excellent activity and selectivity in ODH of propane. Incorporation methods, like impregnation and chemical vapor deposition, are effective for different catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01174F"},
{"DOC": "h-BN excels in propane ODH reactions due to its high olefin selectivity. N2-treated h-BN achieved 26% propane conversion and 89.4% olefin selectivity at 520C, with three-boron center N-defects playing a pivotal role. Plasma treatment, particularly N2 plasma, increases defect density, enhancing catalytic activity. N2-BN and O2-BN-wash showed similar B/N ratios and catalytic conversion, but O2-BN's low activity is attributed to BN nanosheet sintering by BOx species. H2-BN and Ar-BN had decreased surface areas and unchanged or reduced activity, respectively, due to B-H species suppression and compromised effects between B/N ratio increase and surface area decrease.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202106713"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, specifically ordered macroporous boron phosphate (BPO4), enhance catalytic performance through improved mass transport and increased accessibility of active sites. Synthesized via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid, phosphoric acid, and polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as templates, the structure features interconnected macropores averaging 200 nm in diameter. Tri-coordinated surface boron species, identified as active catalytic sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, increase from 41% in fresh to 51% in spent BPO4(OM), indicating their role in enhanced catalytic efficiency. The ordered macroporous structure, confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, offers a specific surface area of 75 m2 g-1 and excellent structural stability during propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Interconnected and open macropores facilitate mass transfer, allowing easy access to active sites and improving catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, resulting in a significantly improved yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63654-3"},
{"DOC": "B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to the spatial confinement of boron sites and the pore structure of the support. The effectiveness of these materials is influenced by the pore structure, loading of B2O3, and partial pressure of propane, affecting the apparent propane reaction order, which varies from 1 to 3. Incorporation methods for B active components should consider these factors to optimize catalytic activity and selectivity for different applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2023.114048"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    