 
 
 
ISSN 1998-0124 CN 11-5974/O4 
2019, 12(1): 000–000 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-020-2755-3 
 
Review Article
 
 
Modulating the local coordination environment of single-atom 
catalysts for enhanced catalytic performance 
Xinyuan Li1,2, Hongpan Rong1 (), Jiatao Zhang1, Dingsheng Wang2 (), and Yadong Li2 
 
1 Beijing Key Laboratory of Construction-Tailorable Advanced Functional Materials and Green Applications Experimental Center of Advanced
Materials, School of Materials Science & Engineering, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China 
2 Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 
 
© Tsinghua University Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2020 
Received: 18 January 2020 / Revised: 10 March 2020 / Accepted: 11 March 2020 
 
ABSTRACT 
The local coordination environment of catalysts has been investigated for an extended period to obtain enhanced catalytic 
performance. Especially with the advancement of single-atom catalysts (SACs), research on the coordination environment has 
been advanced to the atomic level. The surrounding coordination atoms of central metal atoms play important roles in their 
catalytic activity, selectivity and stability. In recent years, remarkable improvements of the catalytic performance of SACs have 
been achieved by the tailoring of coordination atoms, coordination numbers and second- or higher-coordination shells, which 
provided new opportunities for the further development of SACs. In this review, the characterization of coordination environment, 
tailoring of the local coordination environment, and their related adjustable catalytic performance will be discussed. We hope this 
review will provide new insights on further research of SACs. 
KEYWORDS 
single-atom catalysts, coordination environment, catalytic performance, energy conversion 
 
1 Introduction 
The problem of energy shortage is especially crucial for human 
beings in recent years. Efficient exploration and utilization of the 
earth’s existed fossil sources are some of the most reasonable 
strategies to release the energy problem. Human beings’ ability 
to convert the existed fossil sources to clean energy will 
influence the industrial development and humans’ daily life, 
which are significantly depended on the catalytic activity of 
catalysts [1–3]. Hence, in past decades, researchers have paid 
great effort on the development of new catalysts including 
heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysts. As for homogeneous 
catalysts, manipulating active metal centers and their surrounding 
coordination atoms are effective strategies to improve the 
catalytic activity and selectivity [4], which are equally important 
to the catalytic properties of traditional heterogeneous catalysts 
due to the mixed coordination environments between catalytic 
metal particles and supports [5–7]. However, the inevitable 
size dispersion of metal nanoparticles could also weaken 
the catalytic selectivity as well as the atomic utilization [1, 8]. 
The development of new catalysts with improved catalytic 
properties is one of the most important subjects in chemistry 
and catalysis. 
Single-atom catalysts (SACs) could combine the advantages 
of both homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts, which 
were designed and put forward in last century and were newly 
specified and developed by many groups in the last decade [1, 
2, 6–14]. The SACs featured atomic dispersed metal atoms 
loaded on supports can exhibit comparable atom utilizations 
and the property of controllable coordination environment 
with homogeneous catalysts [15–18]. Besides, the uniform 
atomic active sites achieved by flexible synthesis strategies 
exhibit high selectivity in many important reactions such as 
propane dehydrogenation [19, 20], C−H bond oxidation [11, 21], 
O2 reduction [22, 23], N2 fixation [24, 25] and CO2 reduction 
[26–29] etc. To date, the study on SACs has been advanced to 
consider the coordination environment of central metal atoms at 
atomic level with help from the high-resolution characterization 
technologies [7, 10, 30]. In most circumstance, the central 
metal atoms of SACs were fixed on supports by coordination 
bonds with N, S, O, etc. atoms from support materials or 
metal–metal bonds (Scheme 1). The electronic and geometric 
structures of central metal atoms could be adjustable by tailoring  
 
Scheme 1 Schematic illustration of central metal atom and its coordination 
environment. 
Address correspondence to Hongpan Rong, rhp@bit.edu.cn; Dingsheng Wang, wangdingsheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
2 
the coordination environment, which would change the absorption 
activity of reactants on metal atoms and thus influence the 
catalytic properties [5, 31–34]. A comprehensive review on 
modulating the local coordination of SACs and their related 
enhanced catalytic performance is timely important.  
In this review, we will first introduce the characterization 
technologies of coordination environment, which is vital for 
further investigations of SACs. Then, the local coordination 
environment of SACs and their influence of catalytic performance 
will be illustrated from some representative publications, 
which are categorized by macroscopic support materials 
(Section 3.1), specific coordination atoms (Section 3.2), and 
complicated second- and higher-coordination shell (Section 3.3). 
Finally, the future challenges and opportunities for modulating 
the coordination environment of SACs are forecasted. 
2  Characterization of coordination environment 
In the early days, the characterizations of the coordination 
environment were rare, owing to the lack of advanced 
characterization technologies. However, due to the development 
from traditional bulk catalysts to atomic engineered new 
catalysts, the analysis of the coordination environment of 
central metal atoms and its significant influence on the 
investigation of catalytic performance has been emphasized. 
One vital technology to analyze the coordination environment 
of the metallic complex is nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). 
The chemical shift exhibited on NMR spectrums indicated the 
different coordination environments. For example, Zhang et al. 
applied 31P NMR and 1H NMR to characterize the coordination 
abilities between metal cations and phosphines (or thiols/ 
benzenes) (as illustrated in Fig. 1(a)) [35–37]. The chemical 
shift of the NMR spectrum could reflect the coordination 
abilities between metal cations and ligands. As for solid-state 
catalysts with supported metal atoms or nanoparticles, the X-ray 
derived spectroscopies (include X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
(XPS), X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) and 
extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy 
techniques) are most essential approaches to characterize their 
coordination environments. Metal atoms coordinated by different 
atoms from the support will exhibit different binding energies 
characterized by XPS and XANES. The coordination atoms 
and valence states of central metal atoms could be concluded 
by the fitting of the spectrums and concerning the XPS 
database [38]. In Wang’s study, the difference of Fe–S, Co–S 
and Ni–S coordination could be determined based on the 
different binding energies of S 2p detected by high-resolution 
XPS (as illustrated in Fig. 1(b)) [39]. For further detailed 
characterization, EXAFS is the key technology to analyze the 
coordination environment, especially for single atomic catalysts. 
The different coordination environments of central metal atoms 
would exhibit different bond distances (R shift exhibited in 
Fourier transform (FT) functions of the EXAFS spectra). Also, 
the absence of the signal of the metal–metal bond is critical 
evidence to define a SACs. For example, Wang et al. reported 
the coordination environment of W atoms supported on 
metal-organic framework (MOF)-derived N-doped carbon 
(Fig. 1(c)) [40]. By comparing the k3-weight FT-EXAFS curves 
of the W SAC with samples made of W–W, W–O, W–N, and 
W–C bonds, single atomically dispersed W catalysts could be 
determined.  
To further evaluate the coordination environments of active 
sites, in situ characterizations could provide more valuable 
information during dynamic changes [41, 42]. Basically, in situ 
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) could be utilized to 
indicate the evolution of the coordination environment during 
the synthesis process. For example, Corma et al. determined the 
reversible transformation from Pt single atoms to nanoparticles 
supported on high-silica chabazite zeolite by the combination 
of in situ XAFS and XANES [43]. 
Besides the essential characterization during the synthesis 
process, in situ characterizations also played an important role 
in determining the coordination environments of active sites 
during the catalytic process. For example, Yang et al. investigated 
the coordination environment of two kinds of Pt3Ni nanoframe 
during oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) by in situ XANES 
and XAFS [44]. The different coordination environments of 
two Pt3Ni catalysts characterized by in situ XAFS at working 
potentials illustrated their differed performance and stabilities 
in the ORR process. Similarly, Xing et al. applied in situ 
XANES to evaluate the coordination environment of Fe SA/CN 
under various potentials, which illustrated the real active sites  
and reaction pathways in the ORR process [45]. Besides ORR, 
in situ XAS at working atmospheres and temperatures was 
Figure 1  (a) 31P NMR spectra of different cations with TBP coordination (reproduced with permission from Ref. [37], © Elsevier Ltd. 2018). (b) High-
resolution XPS spectra of S 2p in Fe SA/NSC, Co SA/NSC, and Ni SA/NSC, respectively (reproduced with permission from Ref. [39], © American Chemical
Society 2019). (c) k3-weight FT-EXAFS curves of the W SAC at W L3-edge, WT-EXAFS of the W SAC and the references and k3-weight FT-EXAFS fitting 
curves of the W SAC at W L3-edge (reproduced with permission from Ref. [40], © WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim 2018).
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
3 
also applied to studies of the coordination environments   
of another heterogeneous catalysis. For example, Zeng et al. 
revealed the adsorption properties of H2 and CO on the 
surface of Rh SA/CoO during hydroformylation reaction by in situ 
XPS and diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform [46]. 
Besides the in situ XAS, in situ transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM) was also applied to analyze the coordination 
environment of SACs. For example, in situ environmental 
TEM and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) 
were utilized to characterize the transformation from nano-
particles to single atoms [47, 48]. Suenaga et al. reported the 
characterization of coordination environment and migration of 
Re/Au atoms on single-layer MoS2 support by in situ annular 
dark-field STEM [49], which provided with new opportunities 
for direct observations of the interactions between single atoms 
and coordination environments. Christopher et al. reported 
that the dynamic response of Pt single atoms anchored on 
TiO2 was characterized by in situ aberration-corrected STEM [50]. 
The mobility of Pt atoms when heated at a high temperature 
within H2 atmosphere characterized by in situ aberration-corrected 
STEM enlightened us to understand the coordination behavior of 
SACs further. Hence, further applications of in situ techniques 
could provide with more insightful investigations of catalytic 
mechanisms. 
To further investigate the coordination environment of 
SACs, theoretical predictions are significant to optimize the 
coordination environments for high catalytic performance. 
For example, Zeng et al. reported the evaluations of activities 
of graphene-based SACs with different nitrogen coordination 
numbers for ORR, oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and 
hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in theoretical insights [51]. 
They reported that the optimal coordination environment 
could be Fe-pyridine/pyrrole-N4 for ORR, Co-pyrrole-N4 for 
OER, and Mn-pyrrole-N4 for HER, which could help design 
synthesis of SACs with organized coordination environments. 
In a recent publication by Wang et al., the N coordination 
effects of Mn-Nx SACs for ORR were also explored based on 
density functional theory (DFT) calculations [52]. They reported 
that Mn-N4/C could be an attractive candidate, which positioned 
near the apex of the volcano plot with a ηSHE of 0.33 V. 
Li et al. reported a comprehensive theoretical study of M 
SA/FeOx (M = Pd, Pt, Ni, Fe, Co, Cu; Ru, Rh, Ag, Os, Ir, Au, 
etc.), and they found a close relationship between the catalytic 
activity of M SA/FeOx for CO oxidation and their coordination 
environments [34]. In their study, Pd SA/FeOx could be the 
best candidates for further applications, which even exhibited 
better performance than reported Pt SA/FeOx and Ni SA/FeOx. 
Based on the theoretical studies, further precise characterizations 
such as coordination number, the second- and higher-shell 
coordinations were mostly performed by combining experimental 
XAS spectra and theoretical modelings [31, 53]. For example, 
Jaouen et al. reported that the identification of Fe-SA/N4C12, 
Fe-SA/N4C10, and Fe-SA/N4C12Ox could be indicated by experi-
mental XANES and related theoretical spectrums [54]. Similarly, 
W-N1C3 (Fig. 1(c)) and Fe-Cl1N4 coordination could also be 
distinguished separately by comparing the EXAFS spectra and 
corresponding fitting curves in R spaces as reported by Wang et al. 
[40, 55]. This strategy could also be applied to predict the higher- 
shell coordination of Cu-N4-C8S2, as reported by Zhang et al. [38]. 
Further investigation on higher-shell coordination requires 
more precise characterization and a deeper theoretical basis. 
3  Local coordination environment of SACs 
In most reported SACs, metal atoms usually are chemically 
anchored on the support materials, which could directly 
influence the stability and catalytic performance of center metal 
atoms. In this section, we will firstly discuss the alternation of 
coordination components, with emphasis on the classifications 
of substrates. Then, we will discuss the adjustment of coordination 
number according to the types of coordination atoms along 
with dual atom coordination. Finally, we will briefly discuss the 
present studies on SACs with second- and higher-coordination 
shell and their enhanced catalytic performance.  
3.1  Coordination components 
The different coordinating abilities between central metal 
atoms and support atoms could be utilized in mediating the 
catalytic activity of metal atoms. Based on this, the support 
materials of SACs played essential roles in their catalytic 
performance. The direct coordination between support atoms 
and central metal atoms could be categorized as first-shell 
coordination. In this section, by view of the support materials, 
some common coordination components in first-shell coor-
dination will be introduced, such as carbon materials (mainly N 
doped carbon materials with first-shell N coordinated), metal 
oxides (with first-shell O coordinated), metal sulfides (with 
first-shell S coordinated) and metallic materials (including 
alloys and intermetallic materials, with first-shell metal atoms 
coordinated). 
3.1.1  SACs supported on carbon materials 
Carbon materials are important supports for various catalytic 
reactions due to their properties of low cost, high conductivity, 
and easy modification. As for pure carbon materials as 
substrates of SACs, most active atoms are selectively embedded 
on the defects of carbon substrates, which exhibited as carbon 
coordinated SACs. For example, single metal atoms such as Ni, 
Pd and Pt metal atoms embedded on pure graphene or graphdiyne 
have been reported by Chen et al. [56], Lu et al. [57] and Lu 
et al. [58]. However, due to the low binding energy between 
C and metal atoms (the lack of lone electron pair in C atom), 
SACs on pure carbon substrates usually are synthesized at 
high annealing temperature and feature low loading amount. 
To further mediate the coordination environment of SACs 
supported on carbon materials, doping other atoms with higher 
binding energy is an efficient strategy. For example, N-doped 
carbon materials, including N-doped graphene, C3N4, and 
metal-organic framework derived N-doped carbon materials, 
are applied as important N first-shell coordinated support for 
SACs with high metal loading amount. Compared to C atom, 
N atom features one more electron in the valence electron 
shell, which provides higher binding energy. For example, Li 
et al. reported a cocoon silk chemistry strategy to synthesize 
ultrathin N-doped carbon nanosheets with high nitrogen content 
(20.47 wt.%) and high specific surface area (2,105 m2·g−1), 
which are ideal substrates for anchoring metal atoms (Fig. 2(a)). 
The as-prepared Co SA/CN catalysts exhibited high activity on 
the C–H bond activation [59]. Similarly, Song et al. reported a 
Co SA/CN by applying g-C3N4 as a substrate, which exhibited 
superior activity for transfer hydrogenation of nitrobenzene 
[60]. As for two-dimensional (2D) N-doped carbon substrates, 
N-doped graphene is an attractive support for high metal 
loading and appropriate coordination ability. Zhang et al. 
reported the synthesis of Pd SA/N-doped graphene, which 
exhibited highly selective photothermal hydrogenation of acetylene 
to ethylene [61]. Wang et al. reported Ni SA/N-doped graphene 
for highly efficient electrocatalytic CO2 reduction with 95% 
selection of CO [62]. Both of the two mentioned SACs on 
N-doped graphene could be simply achieved by wet impregnation 
strategy. Xiang et al. also reported a pyrolysis free pathway to 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
4 
synthesize Fe SA/N-doped graphene, which exhibited high 
ORR efficiency [63]. 
Based on the higher binding energy between N and metal 
atoms and spatial confinement effects, MOFs with N-containing 
coordinated links are also attractive substrates for SACs [6]. A 
straightforward strategy to synthesize MOFs-derived SACs on 
N-doped carbon substrates is by pyrolysis of metal ions based 
or encapsulated MOFs. SACs such as Co, W, and Bi SA/CN 
derived from predesigned MOFs have been investigated by 
Wang et al. [40], Wu et al. [64], Spendelow et al. [65] and 
Zhang et al. [47]. Besides, MOFs could also be applied as host 
to capture active metal precursors. For example, Wang et al. 
reported the synthesis of atomic dispersed Ru clusters within 
MOFs (Fig. 2(b)). The applied ZIF-8 shell could achieve regios-
elective catalysis, which exhibited high selectivity in hydro-
genation of acetylene to ethane [66]. To further versatile synthesis 
of such SACs, Li et al. reported the ionic exchange of MOFs to 
achieve Ni SACs, which exhibited efficient electroreduction of 
CO2 (Fig. 2(c)) [67]. Taking advantages of the coordination 
between N and metal atoms, Wang et al. reported synthesis of 
Co SACs anchored on hollow N-doped carbon spheres by 
template-assisted pyrolysis method (Fig. 2(d)) [68]. The firstly 
prepared SiO2 spheres were dispersed in metalloporphyrins 
solutions, followed by pyrolysis. Similar strategies have been 
applied to the synthesis of Fe, Co, Ni, Mn SA/CN (Fig. 2(e)) [26, 
69, 70]. However, it has to be mentioned that the examples 
presented above only focusing on SACs with mostly coordination 
number of 4. Since the further alternation of N coordination 
numbers and dual coordination atoms (by modified central atoms 
with S, Cl and P etc.) are also important factors for catalytic 
performance, we will systematically discuss them in Sections 
3.2.1 and 3.2.2. 
3.1.2  SACs supported on metal oxides 
Compared to carbon substrates, metal oxide substrates such as 
FeOx, TiO2, SiO2, CeO2 are also widely applied in industrial 
catalytic fields. Their surface defects could be applied to anchor 
metal atoms to synthesize SACs. Liu et al. reported the Pt SA 
anchored on defects of FeOx substrate by wet co-precipitation 
[9]. The as-prepared Pt SA/FeOx catalysts exhibited high activity 
for both CO oxidation and preferential oxidation of CO in 
H2 due to the appropriate coordination environment. In 
their following research, they reported the Ir SA/FeOx for 
remarkable catalysis on water gas shift reaction [71]. Zheng et 
al. reported a photochemical route to synthesize Pd SA/TiO2 
SACs by applying ultrathin TiO2 nanosheets with a high density 
of defects as substrate [72]. The ethylene glycolate and UV light 
irradiation supplied with a mediate reduction environment, 
which facilitated a high single atom loading (1.4 wt.%). Based 
on the surface defects engineering, Wang et al. firstly constructed 
oxygen vacancies on the TiO2 surface, and then prepared stable 
and high loading Au SA/TiO2 SACs by co-precipitation (Fig. 3(a)), 
which exhibited a majority of Au–O coordination [73]. Li et al. 
reported the synthesis of Pt SA/TiO2 SACs by electrostatic- 
induction ion exchange and two-dimensional confinement 
strategy (Fig. 3(b)) [74, 75]. The as-prepared Pt SA/TiO2 exhibited 
enhanced anti-Markovnikov alkene hydrosilylation and photo-
catalytic hydrogen generation properties. Similarly, many metal 
oxide-based SACs were synthesized by the co-precipitation or 
electrostatic adsorption, such as Rh SA/TiO2 [76], Pt SA/Fe2O3  
Figure 2  (a) Synthesis strategies of Co SA/CN catalyst, corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping and aberration 
corrected high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF)-STEM image (reproduced with permission from Ref. [59], © Zhu, Y. Q. et al. 2018). (b) Schematic 
preparation process of Ru3@ZIF-8 and Ru1@ZIF-8 catalyst (reproduced with permission from Ref. [66], © Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 
Weinheim 2019). (c) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ni SA/NC (reproduced with permission from Ref. [67], © American Chemical Society 2017). 
(d) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Co SA/hollow N doped carbon sphere (reproduced with permission from Ref. [68], © American Chemical 
Society 2017). (e) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Fe SA/CN (reproduced with permission from Ref. [69], © American Chemical Society 2017). 
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
5 
[77], Pt SA/WO3−x [78], Pt SA/CeO2 [79, 80], Pd SA/CeO2 [81], 
Pd SA/Cu2O [82], Au SA/CuO [83], Pt SA/ZrO2 [84] and Pt 
SA/Ni(OH)x [85] (Fig. 3(c)) reported by many research groups 
in SACs. The charge transfer from metal oxide support to 
central metal atoms could facilitate the enhanced catalytic perfor-
mance, which has widely utilized for industrial applications. 
3.1.3  SACs supported on metal sulfides 
Different from the aforementioned N-doped carbon and metal 
oxide substrates, metal sulfides provided with appropriate band 
gap and higher binding energy with metal atoms, which are 
important candidates for photocatalytic and electrocatalytic 
applications [86, 87]. Single metal atoms could be loaded on metal 
sulfides substrates (especially transition metal dichalcogenides), 
which could exhibit outstanding performance due to the catalytic 
activity, trapping of charge carriers and comprehensive surface 
modifications [87–89]. For example, Suenaga et al. reported 
the characterization of a single atomic site doping of Re and 
Au on MoS2 nanosheets [49]. By analyzing the interaction 
between doping atoms and host, the authors proved that the 
single atomic doping could enhance the chemical affinity of 
the system, which could be utilized for further applications on 
nano-electronic devices. Warner et al. reported that Pt atoms 
could localize on S vacancies and exhibit dynamic hopping to 
nearby vacancy sites [90]. They further indicated that Pt atoms 
could influence the hydrogen evolution reactions by varying 
the hydrogen adsorption energy. In a related publication by Bao 
et al., Pt SA/MoS2 exhibited enhanced hydrogen evolution 
reaction catalytic abilities, which could be owing to the tuned 
adsorption of H atoms by Pt atoms [12]. Besides, Tsang et al. 
reported the synthesis of Co SA/MoS2, which exhibited superior 
activity, selectivity, and stability for the hydrodeoxygenation 
of 4-methylphenol to toluene compared with conventional 
CoMoS2 catalysts [91]. The enhanced activity could be achieved 
by the observed Co–S–Mo interfacial sites. 
Besides the deposition of single atoms on the surficial 
defects of metal sulfide substrates, single atomic site doping 
could also be applied to achieve functional modification. As 
reported by Zhang et al., single atomic site Ag+ or Cu+ doped 
CdX and ZnX (X = S, Se, Te) quantum dots were synthesized 
via phosphine facilitated cation exchange reactions from Ag2X 
QDs (Fig. 4(a)) [35, 36]. The atomic site doping was further 
examined by high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) and EXAFS [92]. 
The similar cation exchange reactions can also be applied to 
synthesize metal-semiconductor core–shell nanocrystals with 
stable atomic doped shell and atomic organized hetero- 
interface [37, 93]. In their recent publication, the semiconductor 
shell with the atomic dopant could be tailored from n- to p-type 
by cation exchange reactions [94]. The as-prepared Au@CdS 
core–shell nanocrystals with Cu SA dopants exhibited promising 
photoelectrochemical hydrogen evolution property. Similarly, 
cation exchange reactions could be applied to achieve metal- 
sulfide nanocrystals (NCs) with high single atomic loadings. 
Li et al. reported the synthesis of single atomic Pt sites on  
 
Figure 4  (a) Schematic illustration of solvent and thiols coordination 
facilitated cation exchange reactions enabled the synthesis of Ag single 
atomic doped ZnS nanocrystals (reproduced with permission from 
Ref. [36], © Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim 2019). 
(b) Schematic illustration of the structure evolution of Pt1 SA/CuSx 
(reproduced with permission from Ref. [95], © Elsevier Inc. 2019). 
 
Figure 3  (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Au SA/TiO2 (reproduced with permission from Ref. [73], © Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. 
KGaA, Weinheim 2018). (b) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Pt1δ+ SA/TiO2 (reproduced with permission from Ref. [70], © Wiley-VCH Verlag 
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim 2019). (c) Aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images of Pt1/Co3O4, Pt1/CeO2, and Pt1/ZrO2 (reproduced with permission
from Ref. [84], © American Chemical Society 2019). 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
6 
hollow CuxS nanocrystals, which exhibited highly selective O2 
reduction to H2O2 in acid solution (Fig. 4(b)) [95].   
3.1.4  SACs supported on metal substrates 
The catalytic properties of noble metal materials could 
significantly differ from their size and morphologies as the 
size reduces to nanoscale or atomic level. Located noble single 
metal atoms on noble metal substrates could exhibit enhanced 
catalytic performance due to the synergistic effect of isolated 
noble metal atoms and their coupling with metal substrates [96]. 
Most reported single atoms are anchored on alloys, or inter-
metallic nanocrystals, namely single atom alloys (SAAs), 
which are mostly achieved by the different surface potentials 
of metal atoms facilitated adsorption. Toshima et al. reported 
Au isolated atoms on Pd nanoclusters SAA, which exhibited 
enhanced catalytic activity on aerobic glucose oxidation [97]. 
Zhang et al. reported Pd SA on Ag nanoparticles SAA anchored 
on SiO2 substrates for highly selective hydrogenation of acetylene 
to ethylene in excess ethylene [98]. As for morphology tailoring, 
Hong et al. reported the atomically dispersed Ru on ultrathin Pd 
nanoribbons, which exhibited enhanced property of hydro-
genolysis in chemoselective hydrogenation of C=C bonds [96]. 
The Cu pair atoms on Pd10Te3 alloyed nanowires also exhibited 
efficient and selective electrochemical reduction of CO2, as 
reported by Chen et al. (Figs. 5(a) and 5(b)) [28]. Similarly, 
Wang et al. reported the anchoring of isolated Co single atoms 
into the lattice of Ru nanoplatelets, which exhibited accelerated 
water dissociation kinetics [99]. 
Besides, some highly active atoms for H2 activation (such 
as Pt) suffering from inactivation by C accumulation, could 
be anchored on substrates with reduced binding strength for 
C species (such as Cu). In a publication reported by Sykes 
et al., Pt SA/Cu SAAs with an atomic ratio of Pt:Cu = 1:1.25 
exhibited excellent CO tolerance in H2 activation [100]. In 
their further publication, they prepared Pt/Cu single atom 
alloys which exhibited efficient and highly selective C–H 
activation catalytic property [20]. Compared to Pt nanoparticles, 
the Pt/Cu single atom alloys exhibited intermediate barriers 
for C–H activation, which kept active but prevented from 
coking. Nearly at the same time, Gong et al. reported Pt/Cu 
single atom alloys could promote the desorption of surface- 
bonded propylene and prohibit its further dehydrogenation, 
resulting in high propylene selectivity (~ 90%) [19]. In a recent 
publication by Wu et al., Ru single atoms were localized on 
PtCu alloys [101]. The engineered electronic structure of Ru 
single atoms by tailoring the Cu-Pt ratio of substrates facilitated 
the enhancement of acidic water oxidation for electrocatalysis. 
Similarly, atomic dispersed Sn in Pt3Sn intermetallic nanocrystals 
enhanced the activity and stability of electrochemical reactions 
(Fig. 5(c)) [102]. 
3.2  Adjustment of coordination atoms 
To further optimize the catalytic performance of SACs, the 
coordination number of active metal single atoms were also 
systematically investigated, which could significantly influence 
the catalytic properties of SACs. The coordination number 
mainly depends on the valence state of metal atoms and their 
coordination environment. The reported adjustment of coordi-
nation atoms mainly includes the N coordination, O coordination, 
and dual atom coordination, and we discuss them in the 
following sub-sections. 
3.2.1  Adjustment of N coordination 
The common coordination number of metal atoms with N 
atoms is 4, which could be attributed to the valence state and 
electronic structures of central atoms. For example, Bao et al.  
 
Figure 5  (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Cu atom-pair/ 
Pd10Te3 nanowires and (b) atomic-resolution EDS mapping images (reproduced 
with permission from Ref. [28], © Springer Nature 2019). (c) Atomic- 
resolution HAADF-STEM images and corresponding schematic illustrations 
of cubic (A–D), concave cubic (E–H), and defect-rich cubic intermetallic 
(I–L) Pt3Sn nanocrystal (reproduced with permission from Ref. [102], 
© WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim 2016). 
reported the synthesis of Fe-N4/graphene SACs for catalytic 
oxidation of benzene by ball milling of Fe-phthalocyanine 
(FePc) with graphene nanosheets [11]. The Fe-N4 coordination 
provided with a potential bonding of Fe=O, which was 
indicated as a key step to promote the conversion of benzene 
to phenol. In their further study, Bao et al. reported the 
synthesis of CuI-N sites SACs by mixing CuPc with dicyan-
diamide for efficient ORR in alkaline medium [103]. By 
adjusting the pyrolysis temperature, Zhang et al. successfully 
synthesized Fe-Nx (x = 4–6) SACs, among which FeIII-N5 
exhibited the highest selective oxidation of C–H bond turnover 
frequency (TOF) [21]. Wang et al. also reported that Fe-N5 
SACs exhibited superior performance in electrochemical CO2 
reduction [104]. By similar strategies, Wu et al. reported the 
tailoring of Co-N2, Co-N3, and Co-N4, while Co-N2 exhibited 
both high selectivity and activity on electroreduction of CO2 
to CO (Figs. 6(a)–6(e)) [105]. Chen et al. further studied the 
preparation of Fe-NxCy (x + y = 4) and their catalytic sites in 
the benzene oxidation reaction, among which Fe-N4 exhibited 
the highest performance (Figs. 6(f)–6(m)) [106]. 
Utilizing the strong coordination interaction between N 
and metal atoms, some metal nanoparticles or bulk materials 
could also be transformed into single atoms with specific 
N-coordination numbers during the pyrolysis process. In an 
impressive publication by Li et al., Cu-N4/C SACs could be 
achieved by the pyrolysis of Cu foam and ZIF-8 in an ammonia 
atmosphere (Fig. 7(a)) [107]. The defects of the nitrogen-rich 
carbon support could trap the Cu(NH3)x species efficiently, 
which could be applicable for scalable synthesis of SACs. The  
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
7 
 
 
Figure 6  (a)–(e) Schematic illustration and structure characterization of the coordination tailoring of Co-Nx/CN SACs: (a) schematic illustrations of 
Co-N4 and Co-N2/CN SACs, (b) XRD pattern, (c) XANES spectra, (d) EXAFS spectra, and (e) XPS spectra of Co-N2, Co-N3, Co-N4 and Co nanoparticles
(reproduced with permission from Ref. [105], © WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim 2018). (f)–(m) Structure characterization of 
Fe-NxCy SAs/CN: (f)–(h) AC-HAADF-STEM images, (i) XANES spectra at the Fe K-edge, (j)–(l) comparison between the experimental K-edge XANES 
spectra and the theoretical spectra, and (m) FT k3-weighted χ(k)-function of the EXAFS spectra of the Fe-N4 SAs/CN, Fe-N3C1 SAs/CN, and Fe-N2C2
SAs/CN (reproduced with permission from Ref. [106], © Pan, Y. et al. 2019). 
 
Figure 7  (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Cu SA/CN and proposed reaction mechanism (reproduced with permission from Ref. [107], ©
Springer Nature 2018). (b) Schematic illustrations and corresponding TEM images of transformation from Bi-MOF to Bi SA/CN (reproduced with 
permission from Ref. [47], © American Chemical Society 2019). (c) Schematic illustrations and corresponding high-resolution HAADF-STEM images of 
evolution from Pd-nanoparticles@ZIF-8 to Pd SA/CN (reproduced with permission from Ref. [108], © Springer Nature 2018). 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
8 
as-prepared Cu-N4 exhibited superior ORR performance and 
exceptional thermal stability. In an improved strategy reported by 
Zhang et al., Bi-N4/C SACs could be achieved by the pyrolysis 
of Bi-MOF precursor and dicyandiamide in Ar atmosphere, 
which featured enhanced performance for electrocatalysis for CO2 
reduction (Fig. 7(b)) [47]. Besides, single metal atoms could 
also be transformed from metal nanoparticles within carbon 
support with high nitrogen contents. For example, Li et al. 
reported the synthesis of Pd-, Au-, Pt-N4/CN SACs transformed 
from corresponding metal nanoparticles@ZIF-8 after heating 
at over 900 °C (Fig. 7(c)) [108]. The as-prepared Pd-N4/CN 
SACs exhibited high performance on the semi-hydrogenation 
of acetylene. 
3.2.2  Adjustment of oxygen coordination 
Similar to nitrogen atom, the oxygen atom is another kind  
of typical coordination atom, as introduced in Section 3.1.2 
above. The coordination number of oxygen atoms surrounded 
metal atoms could also significantly influence the catalytic 
activity of central atoms. In a publication reported by Zhang 
et al., near-atomic dispersed PtOx clusters on CeO2 nanowires 
exhibited applicable low-temperature CO oxidation activity 
[109]. They investigated that 1.3% PtOx/CeO2 with low Pt–O 
coordination number (2.0 ± 0.3) exhibited a remarkably 1/2 
order higher catalytic activity than PtOx/CeO2 with high Pt–O 
coordination number (3.1 ± 0.3). They illustrated that the 
increased oxygen coordination number could decrease the 
catalytic activity due to loss of effect active sites. 
In contrast, the suitable oxygen coordination number with 
highly exposed Pt sites could optimize catalytic efficiency and 
atom utilization. Si et al. also reported that appropriate oxygen 
coordination numbers of Pt-O/Ce0.5Zr0.42La0.08Ox were significant 
for their catalytic ability of the oxidation of methane [110]. In 
their study, 1%Pt/Ce0.5Zr0.42La0.08Ox with appropriate Pt–O (4.8 ± 
0.3) and Pt–Pt (1.6 ± 0.7) exhibited the highest catalytic 
performance. Corma et al. reported the tailoring of oxygen 
coordination number of Pt SA/high silica chabazite zeolite 
by adjusting sintering temperature and atmosphere, which 
were utilized to mediate their catalytic performance in the 
hydrogenation of ethylene and propylene [43]. In the recent 
publications, Zhang et al. and Hosono et al. separately reported 
that Pt SA/metal oxide with low Pt–O coordination number 
could achieve high hydrogenation catalytic performance 
[111, 112]. As for PtO2, the coordination number of Pt–O is 
around 6. In the publication by Zhang et al., they reported that 
the increasing synthesis temperature could lead to the gradual 
decrease of the coordination number of Pt–O in the synthesis 
of Pt SA/Fe2O3 [111]. The as-prepared Pt SA/Fe2O3 (600 °C 
sintering) with low Pt–O coordination number (1.8) exhibited 
the highest TOF (3,809 molconv.·h−1·molPt−1) during hydrogena-
tion of 3-nitrostyrene, however, Pt SA/Fe2O3 (500 °C sintering) 
with higher Pt–O coordination number (3.8) exhibited relatively 
low TOF (491 molconv.·h−1·molPt−1). They concluded that the 
decrease in Pt–O coordination number could decrease the 
oxidation state of Pt sites and meanwhile enhance their 
hydrogenation activity. In the publication by Hosono et al., the 
Pt SA/12CaO·7Al2O3 with a low coordination number of Pt–O 
(2.52) exhibited high catalytic activity (with TOF up to 25,772 h−1) 
in chemoselective hydrogenation of nitroarenes [112]. 
By further studying the coordination state of SACs on oxide 
support, Qiao et al. reported that the single metal atoms could 
also be stabilized through a strong covalent metal–support 
interaction instead of anchoring on defect sites (Figs. 8(a) 
and 8(b)) [15]. They proved that the reducibility of iron oxide 
applied in their systems was crucial for anchoring isolated 
metal atoms. The findings could also be utilized to synthesize 
further SACs supported on metal oxides with a high amount 
of loadings. In a recent study, Lu et al. prepared Pt single atoms 
anchored on Co3O4 through strong electronic metal–support 
interactions, and they exhibited enhanced activity for dehydro-
genation of ammonia borane [84]. In another publication by 
Li et al., due to the organized Pt–O–Ti3+ coordination, single 
Pt atoms anchored on defective TiO2 support exhibited 
unprecedentedly high photocatalytic hydrogen evolution rate 
[75]. By modifying hydroxyl ligands of TiO2 surface, a facile 
adsorption-oxidation strategy could be exploited to tune the 
 
Figure 8  (a) Schematic illustration of thermally induced Pt nanoparticle restructuring and (b) their dispersion on different supports (reproduced with 
permission from Ref. [15]. © Lang, R. et al. 2019). (c) Schematic illustration of oxygen-terminated FeO/Pt (111) interface (O-FeO/Pt (111)) and benzyl 
alcohol adsorption at the O-FeO/Pt (111) interface and (d) coordination tailoring facilitated the improved catalytic performance of conversion of benzyl
alcohol (solid square) and selectivity to benzaldehyde (reproduced with permission from Ref. [114], © Zhao, G. et al. 2017). 
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
9 
coordination number (Fe-O3 or Fe2-O3) of Fe single atoms 
anchored on TiO2 support [113]. The Fe central atoms with 
low coordination number featured low spin state, which 
resulted in its superior performance for OER. Besides atomic 
dispersed noble metal atoms anchored on metal oxide support, 
atomic metal oxide pair anchored on metal substrates were also 
investigated by Li et al., which exhibited improved catalytic 
property on the conversion of benzyl alcohol and their 
selectivity to benzaldehyde (Figs. 8(c) and 8(d)) [114]. Their 
study illustrated that the interfacial effect could be utilized to 
achieve more stable and efficient SACs. 
3.2.3  Adjustment of dual-atom coordination 
As mentioned in previous sections, multi-coordinating atoms 
could be applied to mediate the catalytic activity of central 
metal atoms. Compared to the mentioned adjustment of coor-
dination number of nitrogen or oxygen, the adjustment of 
dual-atom coordination is another effective strategy to optimize 
their catalytic activities. For example, the aforementioned 
Fe-NxCy SACs could also be categorized as dual atom coor-
dination, which were commonly reported in C and N supported 
SACs [106]. Besides the C and N coordination, other dual-atom 
coordination could be achieved by anchoring halogens atoms 
on the central metal atoms of C-N based SACs. For example, 
in 2018, Wang et al. reported the change of the electronic 
structure of Fe-N4/CN SACs by one coordinated chlorine through 
a thermal-migrating method [55]. The obtained Fe-Cl1N4/CN 
SACs exhibited an exceptionally outstanding ORR activity 
compared to Fe-N4/CN without coordinated chlorine (Figs. 9(a)– 
9(c)). By post-sintering strategy, five-coordinated C1-Pt-Cl4 
SACs could be transferred to four-coordinated C2-Pt-Cl2 SACs 
for optimized electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution, as reported 
by Si et al. using graphdiyne as supports [58].  
Support materials with modified doping or ligands could 
also be applied to adjust the dual-atom coordination. Elam et 
al. reported that the modified surface chlorine on TiO2 could 
facilitate the deposition of an atomic layer of Pd, which exhibited 
promising performance in the low-temperature water-gas-shift 
reaction [115]. Yang et al. also reported that the CeF3 clusters 
could further be deposited on Fe SA/CN supports, which 
enabled the surface chemical state to redistribute [116]. The 
demonstrated CeF3-Fe SA/CN SACs exhibited enhanced electro-
catalytic performance in proton exchange membrane fuel cells. 
Besides the dual atom coordination, SACs with dual metal sites, 
including Fe-Co/CN [117], Zn-Co/CN [118], Pt-Ru/CN [119], 
Co-Pt/CN [106], Co-Fe/CN [120], Ir-Zn/ZnO [121] and Co-Ni/ 
CN [122], etc. were also reported to mediate their catalytic 
performance, which could provide with new opportunities for 
further development of SACs. 
3.3  The second- and higher-coordination shell 
Compared to the aforementioned coordination of first-shell 
atoms, the second- and higher-shell atoms could also influence 
the catalytic abilities of central metal atoms. Different from 
the direct coordinating atoms, atoms from the second-shell 
exhibited less coordinated strength, but they exhibited a moderate 
influence on their catalytic abilities. For example, Zhang et al. 
reported the synthesis of low valence Cu+-N4-C8S2 SACs, which 
was investigated by EXAFS together with DFT calculation 
(Figs. 9(f)–9(h)) [38]. Compared to S free Cu-N4/CN SACs, 
 
Figure 9  (a) FT EXAFS of the Fe K-edge of the Fe-Cl1N4/CNS with comparative samples, (b) the corresponding EXAFS fitting curves of the
Fe-Cl1N4/CNS in R space with inset of schematic structure of Fe-Cl1N4/CNS: Fe (red), Cl (green), S (yellow), N (blue), and C (gray) and (c) corresponding
ORR polarization curves in O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH (reproduced with permission from Ref. [55], © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2019). (d) and (e) Schematic
illustrations of the synthesis of Fe-N4-C8S2, Ni-N3S1 and Co-N3S1, and their corresponding ORR polarization curves (reproduced with permission from 
Ref. [39], © American Chemical Society 2019). (f) Schematic illustration of the coordination environment, (g) FT k3-weighted Cu K-edge EXAFS spectra 
and (h) corresponding ORR polarization curves of Cu-N4-C8S2 (reproduced with permission from Ref. [38], © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2019). 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
10 
the Cu+-N4-C8S2 SACs exhibited improved ORR performance 
in alkaline media. Similarly, Chen et al. reported Fe-S/CN 
SACs with enhanced ORR performance compared to S free 
Fe-N4/CN SACs [55, 123]. Lee et al. also systematically inves-
tigated the controlling of the electron-withdrawing/donating 
properties of Fe-N4/CN SACs by further tailoring S second-shell 
coordination to achieve comprehensive ORR catalytic properties 
[124]. Besides, in a recent study reported by Wang et al., 
different central metal atoms might exhibit different trends in 
forming a complex within an N, S-containing precursor [39]. 
They presented that by applying 1-allyl-2-thiourea as the 
precursor, Fe-N4/C8S2 SACs could be achieved while Ni-N3S1 
and Co-N3S1 were prepared by the same conditions (Figs. 9(d) 
and 9(e)). Fe-N4/C8S2 exhibited better ORR performance due 
to the formation of a different catalytically active structure 
without the metal–S bonds.  
Besides the S coordination, P also could work as the second- 
shell coordination atom. For example, Lu et al. reported the 
enhanced catalytic performance on hydrogenation activity of 
Pt-O4-P/CeO2 compared to Pt-O4/CeO2 [79]. The P doping in 
CeO2 support induced a considerable charge transfer from Pt 
to P, which featured a significant higher valence state of Pt+ in 
Pt-O4-P/CeO2. To further investigate the higher-shell coordination 
environment, Wang et al. reported the synthesis of Fe SACs 
embedded on a nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulfur co-doped hollow 
carbon polyhedron from a metal-organic framework-polymer 
composite [125]. The as-prepared Fe-N4-P-S/CN SACs exhibited 
remarkable performance for ORR in both alkaline and acid 
media, compared to Fe-N4/CN and commercial Pt/C. The com-
plex coordination environment provided new opportunities 
for developing new SACs with enhanced catalytic performance. 
4  Conclusions and perspectives 
The development of SACs is remarkable in recent years, and 
the emphasis on the coordination environment of SACs 
provided new opportunities for further improvement of their 
catalytic properties. In this review, we first discussed the 
characterizations of the coordination environment, mainly 
concerning X-ray derived techniques, in situ techniques, and 
theoretical predictions, which are important for the deter-
mination of the coordination environment. Then, categorized by 
support materials and coordination atoms, the local coordination 
environments of recently reported SACs were systematically 
discussed, especially concerning the modulating of the 
coordination environments of central metal atoms and their 
corresponding influence on catalytic properties. The study on 
the coordination environment of SACs could help researchers to 
deeply investigate the structure evolution and working mechanism 
during the catalytic process. The current progress of enhanced 
catalytic performance facilitated by tailoring the coordination 
atoms, coordination number, and second- or higher-coordination 
shells confirms the great significance and opportunities of 
their applications. Opportunities and challenges still exist to 
modulate the coordination environments further and optimize 
the catalytic properties of SACs. 
(1) The detailed characterizations of the coordination environ-
ment of SACs are still not satisfactory for complicated cases, 
such as dual-metal sites SACs and multi-shell coordinated 
SACs. As mentioned in Section 2, such complicated coordination 
is mainly determined by the comprehensive consideration 
of experimental spectrums and theoretical predictions. More 
convincing characterized strategies could be helpful in a 
further determination of complicated coordination environment. 
To date, some specific coordination on specific supports (mainly 
2D transition-metal dichalcogenides) could be directly observed 
by annular dark-field STEM or aberration-corrected STEM, 
characterizations for general support materials are still 
restrained due to technical limitations. 
(2) To date, the characterizations of coordination environ-
ments and related charge transfer during the catalytic process 
were mainly dependent on theoretical modelings. How to 
provide direct observations of the dynamic changes during 
the catalytic process is an attractive challenge. New in situ 
technologies such as in situ scanning tunneling microscopy 
and in situ aberration-corrected STEM could be helpful for the 
understanding of catalytic mechanisms and further theoretical 
studies. 
(3) New SACs with precisely designed coordination environ-
ments might exhibit novel catalytic performance. As mentioned 
in previous sections, the coordination atoms could significantly 
influence the electronic and geometric structures of central 
metal atoms. Though SACs exhibited high catalytic performance 
in many reactions, further improvement by coordination 
tailoring could be effective and applicable. For example, 
additional coordination of center atoms by some specific 
element at higher shells (such as S, Se, P, etc.) might increase 
the stability of SACs without loss of catalytic activity. A slightly 
mediated coordination of center atoms could increase the 
dynamic activity, which might increase the catalytic activity 
and meanwhile maintained high stability due to the structure 
flexibility.  
(4) The strategies on modulating the coordination environ-
ments of SACs could provide new opportunities to synthesize 
SACs on a large scale. For example, metal nanoparticles anchored 
on various support could be transformed to SACs due to the 
coordination environment by easily performed mechanical 
treatment as reported by many leading groups on SACs. 
Meanwhile, most of the heterogeneous catalysts consisted 
of bulk or nano-scale metal materials. Hence, post-treatment 
of existing heterogeneous catalysts could be an appropriate 
strategy for large scale synthesis of SACs for industrial 
applications. 
Acknowledgements 
This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program 
of China (Nos. 2018YFA0702003 and 2016YFA0202801), the 
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 51631001, 
51872030, 21890383, 21671117, 21871159, 21901135, 51702016, 
and 51501010), Beijing Institute of Technology Research Fund 
Program for Young Scholars, and Beijing Municipal Science & 
Technology Commission (No. Z191100007219003). 
References 
[1] Chen, Y. J.; Ji, S. F.; Chen, C.; Peng, Q.; Wang, D. S.; Li, Y. D. Single- 
atom catalysts: Synthetic strategies and electrochemical applications. 
Joule 2018, 2, 1242–1264.  
[2] Yang, X. F.; Wang, A. Q.; Qiao, B. T.; Li, J.; Liu, J. Y.; Zhang, T. 
Single-atom catalysts: A new frontier in heterogeneous catalysis. 
Acc. Chem. Res. 2013, 46, 1740–1748.  
[3] Jia, Y.; Jiang, K.; Wang, H. T.; Yao, X. D. The role of defect sites in 
nanomaterials for electrocatalytic energy conversion. Chem 2019, 5, 
1371–1397.  
[4] Cook, S. A.; Borovik, A. S. Molecular designs for controlling the 
local environments around metal ions. Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 
2407–2414.  
[5] Tao, L.; Wang, Y. Q.; Zou, Y. Q.; Zhang, N.; Zhang, Y. Q.; Wu, Y. J.; 
Wang, Y. Y.; Chen, R.; Wang, S. Y. Charge transfer modulated 
activity of carbon-based electrocatalysts. Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 
10, 1901227.  
[6] Sun, T. T.; Xu, L. B.; Wang, D. S.; Li, Y
. D. Metal organic frameworks 
derived single atom catalysts for electrocatalytic energy conversion. 
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
11 
Nano Res. 2019, 12, 2067–2080.  
[7] Mao, J. J.; Li, J.; Pei, J. J.; Liu, Y.; Wang, D. S.; Li, Y. D. Structure 
regulation of noble-metal-based nanomaterials at an atomic level. 
Nano Today 2019, 26, 164–175.  
[8] Wen, J. F.; Chen, Y. J.; Ji, S. F.; Zhang, J.; Wang, D. S.; Li, Y. D. 
Metal-organic frameworks-derived nitrogen-doped carbon supported 
nanostructured PtNi catalyst for enhanced hydrosilylation of 1-octene. 
Nano Res. 2019, 12, 2584–2588.  
[9] Qiao, B. T.; Wang, A. Q.; Yang, X. F.; Allard, L. F.; Jiang, Z.; Cui, Y. 
T.; Liu, J. Y.; Li, J.; Zhang, T. Single-atom catalysis of CO oxidation 
using Pt1/FeOx. Nat. Chem. 2011, 3, 634–641.  
[10] Li, Z. J.; Wang, D. H.; Wu, Y.; Li, Y. D. Recent advances in the 
precise control of isolated single-site catalysts by chemical methods. 
Natl. Sci. Rev. 2018, 5, 673–689.  
[11] Deng, D. H.; Chen, X. Q.; Yu, L.; Wu, X.; Liu, Q. F.; Liu, Y.; Yang, 
H. X.; Tian, H. F.; Hu, Y. F.; Du, P. P. et al. A single iron site confined 
in a graphene matrix for the catalytic oxidation of benzene at room 
temperature. Sci. Adv. 2015, 1, e1500462.  
[12] Deng, J.; Li, H. B.; Xiao, J. P.; Tu, Y. C.; Deng, D. H.; Yang, H. X.; 
Tian, H. F.; Li, J. Q.; Ren, P. J.; Bao, X. H. Triggering the electrocatalytic 
hydrogen evolution activity of the inert two-dimensional MoS2 
surface via single-atom metal doping. Energy Environ. Sci. 2015, 8, 
1594–1601.  
[13] Liu, J. Y. Catalysis by supported single metal atoms. ACS Catal. 
2017, 7, 34–59.  
[14] Lin, J.; Wang, X. D. Rh single atom catalyst for direct conversion of 
methane to oxygenates. Sci. China Mater. 2018, 61, 758–760.  
[15] Lang, R.; Xi, W.; Liu, J. C.; Cui, Y. T.; Li, T. B.; Lee, A. F.; Chen, F.; 
Chen, Y.; Li, L.; Li, L. et al. Non defect-stabilized thermally stable 
single-atom catalyst. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 234.  
[16] Liang, Z. B.; Guo, W. H.; Zhao, R.; Qiu, T. J.; Tabassum, H.; Zou, R. 
Q. Engineering atomically dispersed metal sites for electrocatalytic 
energy conversion. Nano Energy 2019, 64, 103917.  
[17] Liu, J.; Jin, Z.; Wang, X.; Ge, J. J.; Liu, C. P.; Xing, W. Recent advances 
in active sites identification and regulation of M-N/C electro-catalysts 
towards ORR. Sci. China Chem. 2019, 62, 669–683.  
[18] Qiao, B. T.; Liang, J. X.; Wang, A. Q.; Xu, C. Q.; Li, J.; Zhang, T.; 
Liu, J. J. Ultrastable single-atom gold catalysts with strong covalent 
metal–support interaction (CMSI). Nano Res. 2015, 8, 2913–2924.  
[19] Sun, G. D.; Zhao, Z. J.; Mu, R. T.; Zha, S. J.; Li, L. L.; Chen, S.; Zang, 
K. T.; Luo, J.; Li, Z. L.; Purdy, S. C. et al. Breaking the scaling 
relationship via thermally stable Pt/Cu single atom alloys for catalytic 
dehydrogenation. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4454. 
[20] Marcinkowski, M. D.; Darby, M. T.; Liu, J. L.; Wimble, J. M.; 
Lucci, F. R.; Lee, S.; Michaelides, A.; Flytzani-Stephanopoulos, M.; 
Stamatakis, M.; Sykes, E. C. H. Pt/Cu single-atom alloys as coke- 
resistant catalysts for efficient C–H activation. Nat. Chem. 2018, 10, 
325–332.  
[21] Liu, W. G.; Zhang, L. L.; Liu, X.; Liu, X. Y.; Yang, X. F.; Miao, S.; 
Wang, W. T.; Wang, A. Q.; Zhang, T. Discriminating catalytically active 
FeNx species of atomically dispersed Fe–N–C catalyst for selective 
oxidation of the C–H bond. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 10790– 
10798.  
[22] Liu, M. M.; Wang, L. L.; Zhao, K. N.; Shi, S. S.; Shao, Q. S.; Zhang, 
L.; Sun, X. L.; Zhao, Y. F.; Zhang, J. J. Atomically dispersed metal 
catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction: Synthesis, characterization, 
reaction mechanisms and electrochemical energy applications. Energy 
Environ. Sci. 2019, 12, 2890–2923.  
[23] Wang, X. Q.; Li, Z. J.; Qu, Y. T.; Yuan, T. W.; Wang, W. Y.; Wu, Y. 
E.; Li, Y
. D. Review of metal catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction: 
From nanoscale engineering to atomic design. Chem 2019, 5, 1486– 
1511.  
[24] Tao, H. C.; Choi, C.; Ding, L. X.; Jiang, Z.; Han, Z. S.; Jia, M. W.; 
Fan, Q.; Gao, Y. N.; Wang, H. H.; Robertson, A. W. et al. Nitrogen 
fixation by Ru single-atom electrocatalytic reduction. Chem 2019, 
5, 204–214.  
[25] Liu, X.; Jiao, Y.; Zheng, Y.; Jaroniec, M.; Qiao, S. Z. Building up  
a picture of the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction activity of 
transition metal single-atom catalysts. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 
9664–9672.  
[26] Zhao, C. M.; Wang, Y.; Li, Z. J.; Chen, W. X.; Xu, Q.; He, D. S.; Xi, 
D. S.; Zhang, Q. H.; Yuan, T. W.; Qu, Y
. T. et al. Solid-diffusion synthesis 
of single-atom catalysts directly from bulk metal for efficient CO2 
reduction. Joule 2019, 3, 584–594.  
[27] Millet, M. M.; Algara-Siller, G.; Wrabetz, S.; Mazheika, A.; Girgsdies, 
F.; Teschner, D.; Seitz, F.; Tarasov, A.; Levchenko, S. V.; Schlögl, R. 
et al. Ni single atom catalysts for CO2 activation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2019, 141, 2451–2461.  
[28] Jiao, J. Q.; Lin, R.; Liu, S. J.; Cheong, W. C.; Zhang, C.; Chen, Z.; 
Pan, Y.; Tang, J. G.; Wu, K. L.; Hung, S. F. et al. Copper atom-pair 
catalyst anchored on alloy nanowires for selective and efficient 
electrochemical reduction of CO2. Nat. Chem. 2019, 11, 222–228.  
[29] Zhang, Z.; Ma, C.; Tu, Y. C.; Si, R.; Wei, J.; Zhang, S. H.; Wang, Z.; 
Li, J. F.; Wang, Y.; Deng, D. H. Multiscale carbon foam confining 
single iron atoms for efficient electrocatalytic CO2 reduction to CO. 
Nano Res. 2019, 12, 2313–2317.  
[30] Liu, P. X.; Zheng, N. F. Coordination chemistry of atomically dispersed 
catalysts. Natl. Sci. Rev. 2018, 5, 636–638.  
[31] Liu, J. C.; Tang, Y.; Wang, Y. G.; Zhang, T.; Li, J. Theoretical 
understanding of the stability of single-atom catalysts. Natl. Sci. Rev. 
2018, 5, 638–641.  
[32] Zhu, Y. Z.; Peng, W. C.; Li, Y.; Zhang, G. L.; Zhang, F. B.; Fan, X. B. 
Modulating the electronic structure of single-atom catalysts on 2D 
nanomaterials for enhanced electrocatalytic performance. Small 
Methods 2019, 3, 1800438.  
[33] Wang, Y.; Chen, Z.; Shen, R.; Cao, X.; Chen, Y. G.; Chen, C.; Wang, 
D. S.; Peng, Q.; Li, Y
. D. Pd-dispersed CuS hetero-nanoplates for selective 
hydrogenation of phenylacetylene. Nano Res. 2016, 9, 1209–1219. 
[34] Liang, J. X.; Yu, Q.; Yang, X. F.; Zhang, T.; Li, J. A systematic 
theoretical study on FeOx-supported single-atom catalysts: M1/FeOx 
for CO oxidation. Nano Res. 2018, 11, 1599–1611.  
[35] Gui, J.; Ji, M. W.; Liu, J. J.; Xu, M.; Zhang, J. T.; Zhu, H. S. 
Phosphine-initiated cation exchange for precisely tailoring composition 
and properties of semiconductor nanostructures: Old concept, new 
applications. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 3683–3687. 
[36] Bai, B.; Xu, M.; Li, N.; Chen, W. X.; Liu, J. J.; Liu, J.; Rong, H. P.; 
Fenske, D.; Zhang, J. T. Semiconductor nanocrystal engineering by 
applying thiol- and solvent-coordinated cation exchange kinetics. 
Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 4852–4857.  
[37] Li, X. Y.; Iqbal, M. A.; Xu, M.; Wang, Y. C.; Wang, H. Z.; Ji, M. W.; 
Wan, X. D.; Slater, T. J. A.; Liu, J.; Liu, J. J. et al. Au@HgxCd1–xTe 
core@shell nanorods by sequential aqueous cation exchange for 
near-infrared photodetectors. Nano Energy 2019, 57, 57–65.  
[38] Jiang, Z. L.; Sun, W. M.; Shang, H. S.; Chen, W. X.; Sun, T. T.; Li, 
H. J.; Dong, J. C.; Zhou, J.; Li, Z.; Wang, Y. et al. Atomic interface 
effect of a single atom copper catalyst for enhanced oxygen reduction 
reactions. Energy Environ. Sci. 2019, 12, 3508–3514. 
[39] Zhang, J. Q.; Zhao, Y. F.; Chen, C.; Huang, Y. C.; Dong, C. L.; Chen, 
C. J.; Liu, R. S.; Wang, C. Y.; Yan, K.; Li, Y. D. et al. Tuning the 
coordination environment in single-atom catalysts to achieve highly 
efficient oxygen reduction reactions. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 
20118–20126.  
[40] Chen, W. X.; Pei, J. J.; He, C. T.; Wan, J. W.; Ren, H. L.; Wang, Y.; 
Dong, J. C.; Wu, K. L.; Cheong, W. C.; Mao, J. J. et al. Single tungsten 
atoms supported on MOF-derived N-doped carbon for robust 
electrochemical hydrogen evolution. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1800396. 
[41] Li, Z.; Ji, S. F.; Liu, Y. W.; Cao, X.; Tian, S. B.; Chen, Y. J.; Niu, Z. Q.; 
Li, Y. D. Well-defined materials for heterogeneous catalysis: From 
nanoparticles to isolated single-atom sites. Chem. Rev. 2020, 120, 
623−682.  
[42] Bordiga, S.; Groppo, E.; Agostini, G.; van Bokhoven, J. A.; Lamberti, C. 
Reactivity of surface species in heterogeneous catalysts probed by in 
situ X-ray absorption techniques. Chem. Rev. 2013, 113, 1736–1850.  
[43] Moliner, M.; Gabay, J. E.; Kliewer, C. E.; Carr, R. T.; Guzman, J.; 
Casty, G. L.; Serna, P.; Corma, A. Reversible transformation of Pt 
nanoparticles into single atoms inside high-silica chabazite zeolite. 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 15743−15750.  
[44] Becknell, N.; Kang, Y. J.; Chen, C.; Resasco, J.; Kornienko, N.; Guo, 
J. H.; Markovic, N. M.; Somorjai, G. A.; Stamenkovic, V. R.; Yang, 
P. D. Atomic structure of Pt3Ni nanoframe electrocatalysts by in situ 
X-ray absorption spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 15817– 
15824.  
[45] Xiao, M. L.; Zhu, J. B.; Ma, L.; Jin, Z.; Ge, J. J.; Deng, X.; Hou, Y.; 
He, Q. G.; Li, J. K.; Jia, Q. Y. et al. Microporous framework induced 
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
12 
synthesis of single-atom dispersed Fe-N-C acidic ORR catalyst and 
its in situ reduced Fe-N4 active site identification revealed by X-ray 
absorption spectroscopy. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 2824–2832.  
[46] Wang, L. B.; Zhang, W. B.; Wang, S. P.; Gao, Z. H.; Luo, Z. H.; Wang, 
X.; Zeng, R.; Li, A. W.; Li, H. L.; Wang, M. L. et al. Atomic-level 
insights in optimizing reaction paths for hydroformylation reaction 
over Rh/CoO single-atom catalyst. Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 14036.  
[47] Zhang, E. H.; Wang, T.; Yu, K.; Liu, J.; Chen, W. X.; Li, A.; Rong, 
H. P.; Lin, R.; Ji, S. F.; Zheng, X. S. et al. Bismuth single atoms resulting 
from transformation of metal–organic frameworks and their use as 
electrocatalysts for CO2 reduction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 16569– 
16573.  
[48] Matsubu, J. C.; Zhang, S. Y.; DeRita, L.; Marinkovic, N. S.; Chen, J. 
G.; Graham, G
. W.; Pan, X. Q.; Christopher, P. Adsorbate-mediated strong 
metal–support interactions in oxide-supported Rh catalysts. Nat. 
Chem. 2017, 9, 120–127.  
[49] Lin, Y
. C.; Dumcenco, D. O.; Komsa, H. P
.; Niimi, Y
.; Krasheninnikov, A. 
V.; Huang, Y. S.; Suenaga, K. Properties of individual dopant atoms 
in single-layer MoS2: Atomic structure, migration, and enhanced 
reactivity. Adv. Mater. 2014, 26, 2857–2861.  
[50] DeRita, L.; Resasco, J.; Dai, S.; Boubnov, A.; Thang, H. V
.; Hoffman, A. 
S.; Ro, I.; Graham, G. W.; Bare, S. R.; Pacchioni, G. et al. Structural 
evolution of atomically dispersed Pt catalysts dictates reactivity. Nat. 
Mater. 2019, 18, 746–751.  
[51] Xu, H. X.; Cheng, D. J.; Cao, D. P.; Zeng, X. C. A universal principle 
for a rational design of single-atom electrocatalysts. Nat. Catal. 
2018, 1, 339–348.  
[52] Zhu, G. Q.; Liu, F.; Wang, Y. C.; Wei, Z. D.; Wang, W. Systematic 
exploration of N, C coordination effects on the ORR performance of 
Mn–Nx doped graphene catalysts based on DFT calculations. Phys. 
Chem. Chem. Phys. 2019, 21, 12826–12836.  
[53] Wan, C. Z.; Duan, X. F.; Huang, Y. Molecular design of single-atom 
catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction. Adv. Energy Mater., in press, 
DOI: 10.1002/aenm.201903815.  
[54] Zitolo, A.; Goellner, V
.; Armel, V
.; Sougrati, M. T.; Mineva, T.; Stievano, 
L.; Fonda, E.; Jaouen, F. Identification of catalytic sites for oxygen 
reduction in iron- and nitrogen-doped graphene materials. Nat. 
Mater. 2015, 14, 937–942.  
[55] Han, Y
. H.; Wang, Y
. G.; Xu, R. R.; Chen, W. X.; Zheng, L. R.; Han, A. 
J.; Zhu, Y
. Q.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, H. B.; Luo, J. et al. Electronic structure 
engineering to boost oxygen reduction activity by controlling the 
coordination of the central metal. Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 
2348–2352.  
[56] Qiu, H. J.; Ito, Y.; Cong, W. T.; Tan, Y. W.; Liu, P.; Hirata, A.; Fujita, 
T.; Tang, Z.; Chen, M. W. Nanoporous graphene with single-atom 
nickel dopants: An efficient and stable catalyst for electrochemical 
hydrogen production. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 14031–14035.  
[57] Yan, H.; Cheng, H.; Yi, H.; Lin, Y.; Yao, T.; Wang, C. L.; Li, J. J.; Wei, 
S. Q.; Lu, J. L. Single-atom Pd1/graphene catalyst achieved by atomic 
layer deposition: Remarkable performance in selective hydrogenation 
of 1,3-butadiene. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 10484–10487.  
[58] Yin, X. P.; Wang, H. J.; Tang, S. F.; Lu, X. L.; Shu, M.; Si, R.; Lu, 
T. B. Engineering the coordination environment of single-atom 
platinum anchored on graphdiyne for optimizing electrocatalytic 
hydrogen evolution. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 9382–9386. 
[59] Zhu, Y. Q.; Sun, W. M.; Luo, J.; Chen, W. X.; Cao, T.; Zheng, L. R.; 
Dong, J. C.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, M. L.; Han, Y. H. et al. A cocoon silk 
chemistry strategy to ultrathin N-doped carbon nanosheet with metal 
single-site catalysts. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 3861.  
[60] Li, H. N.; Cao, C. Y
.; Liu, J.; Shi, Y
.; Si, R.; Gu, L.; Song, W. G. Cobalt 
single atoms anchored on N-doped ultrathin carbon nanosheets for 
selective transfer hydrogenation of nitroarenes. Sci. China Mater. 
2019, 62, 1306–1314.  
[61] Zhou, S. Q.; Shang, L.; Zhao, Y. X.; Shi, R.; Waterhouse, G. I. N.; 
Huang, Y. C.; Zheng, L. R.; Zhang, T. R. Pd single-atom catalysts 
on nitrogen-doped graphene for the highly selective photothermal 
hydrogenation of acetylene to ethylene. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1900509. 
[62] Jiang, K.; Siahrostami, S.; Zheng, T. T.; Hu, Y. F.; Hwang, S.; 
Stavitski, E.; Peng, Y
. D.; Dynes, J.; Gangisetty, M.; Su, D. et al. Isolated 
Ni single atoms in graphene nanosheets for high-performance CO2 
reduction. Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 893–903.  
[63] Peng, P.; Shi, L.; Huo, F.; Mi, C. X.; Wu, X. H.; Zhang, S. J.; Xiang, 
Z. H. A pyrolysis-free path toward superiorly catalytic nitrogen- 
coordinated single atom. Sci. Adv. 2019, 5, eaaw2322.  
[64] Yin, P. Q.; Yao, T.; Wu, Y.; Zheng, L. R.; Lin, Y.; Liu, W.; Ju, H. X.; 
Zhu, J. F.; Hong, X.; Deng, Z. X. et al. Single cobalt atoms with precise 
N-coordination as superior oxygen reduction reaction catalysts. 
Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 10800–10805.  
[65] Wang, X. X.; Cullen, D. A.; Pan, Y. T.; Hwang, S.; Wang, M. Y.; 
Feng, Z. X.; Wang, J. Y
.; Engelhard, M. H.; Zhang, H. G.; He, Y
. H. et al. 
Nitrogen-coordinated single cobalt atom catalysts for oxygen reduction 
in proton exchange membrane fuel cells. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 
1706758.  
[66] Ji, S. F.; Chen, Y. J.; Zhao, S.; Chen, W. X.; Shi, L. J.; Wang, Y.; 
Dong, J. C.; Li, Z.; Li, F. W.; Chen, C. et al. Atomically dispersed 
ruthenium species inside metal–organic frameworks: Combining 
the high activity of atomic sites and the molecular sieving effect of 
MOFs. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 131, 4315–4319.  
[67] Zhao, C. M.; Dai, X. Y.; Yao, T.; Chen, W. X.; Wang, X. Q.; Wang, 
J.; Yang, J.; Wei, S. Q.; Wu, Y.; Li, Y. D. Ionic exchange of metal– 
organic frameworks to access single nickel sites for efficient 
electroreduction of CO2. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 8078–8081.  
[68] Han, Y. H.; Wang, Y. G.; Chen, W. X.; Xu, R. R.; Zheng, L. R.; 
Zhang, J.; Luo, J.; Shen, R. A.; Zhu, Y
. Q.; Cheong, W. C. et al. Hollow 
N-doped carbon spheres with isolated cobalt single atomic sites: 
Superior electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2017, 139, 17269–17272.  
[69] Zhang, M. L.; Wang, Y. G.; Chen, W. X.; Dong, J. C.; Zheng, L. R.; 
Luo, J.; Wan, J. W.; Tian, S. B.; Cheong, W. C.; Wang, D. S. et al. Metal 
(hydr)oxides@polymer core–shell strategy to metal single-atom 
materials. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 10976–10979.  
[70] Zhang, L. Z.; Jia, Y.; Liu, H. L.; Zhuang, L. Z.; Yan, X. C.; Lang, C. 
G.; Wang, X.; Yang, D. J.; Huang, K. K.; Feng, S. H. et al. Charge 
polarization from atomic metals on adjacent graphitic layers for 
enhancing the hydrogen evolution reaction. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 
2019, 58, 9404–9408.  
[71] Lin, J.; Wang, A. Q.; Qiao, B. T.; Liu, X. Y
.; Yang, X. F.; Wang, X. D.; 
Liang, J. X.; Li, J.; Liu, J. Y.; Zhang, T. Remarkable performance 
of Ir1/FeOx single-atom catalyst in water gas shift reaction. J. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 15314–15317.  
[72] Liu, P. X.; Zhao, Y.; Qin, R. X.; Mo, S. G.; Chen, G. X.; Gu, L.; 
Chevrier, D. M.; Zhang, P.; Guo, Q.; Zang, D. D. et al. Photochemical 
route for synthesizing atomically dispersed palladium catalysts. 
Science 2016, 352, 797–801.  
[73] Wan, J. W.; Chen, W. X.; Jia, C. Y.; Zheng, L. R.; Dong, J. C.; 
Zheng, X. S.; Wang, Y
.; Yan, W. S.; Chen, C.; Peng, Q. et al. Defect effects 
on TiO2 nanosheets: Stabilizing single atomic site Au and promoting 
catalytic properties. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1705369.  
[74] Chen, Y. J.; Ji, S. F.; Sun, W. M.; Chen, W. X.; Dong, J. C.; Wen, J. 
F.; Zhang, J.; Li, Z.; Zheng, L. R.; Chen, C. et al. Discovering partially 
charged single-atom Pt for enhanced anti-Markovnikov alkene 
hydrosilylation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 7407–7410.  
[75] Chen, Y
. J.; Ji, S. F.; Sun, W. M.; Lei, Y
. P.; Wang, Q. C.; Li, A.; Chen, W. 
X.; Zhou, G.; Zhang, Z. D.; Wang, Y. et al. Engineering the atomic 
interface with single platinum atoms for enhanced photocatalytic 
hydrogen production. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 1295–1301. 
[76] Tang, Y
.; Asokan, C.; Xu, M. J.; Graham, G. W.; Pan, X. Q.; Christopher, 
P.; Li, J.; Sautet, P. Rh single atoms on TiO2 dynamically respond to 
reaction conditions by adapting their site. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 
4488.  
[77] Ren, Y. J.; Tang, Y.; Zhang, L. L.; Liu, X. Y.; Li, L.; Miao, S.; Sheng 
Su, D.; Wang, A. Q.; Li, J.; Zhang, T. Unraveling the coordination 
structure-performance relationship in Pt1/Fe2O3 single-atom catalyst. 
Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4500.  
[78] Park, J.; Lee, S.; Kim, H. E.; Cho, A.; Kim, S.; Ye, Y. J.; Han, J. W.; 
Lee, H.; Jang, J. H.; Lee, J. Investigation of the support effect in 
atomically dispersed Pt on WO3−x for utilization of Pt in the hydrogen 
evolution reaction. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 16038–16042.  
[79] Ma, Y. F.; Chi, B. L.; Liu, W.; Cao, L.; Lin, Y.; Zhang, X. H.; Ye, X. 
X.; Wei, S. Q.; Lu, J. L. Tailoring of the proximity of platinum 
single atoms on CeO2 using phosphorus boosts the hydrogenation 
activity. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 8404–8412.  
[80] Ye, X. X.; Wang, H. W.; Lin, Y.; Liu, X. Y.; Cao, L.; Gu, J.; Lu, J. L. 
Insight of the stability and activity of platinum single atoms on ceria. 
Nano Res.  
www.theNanoResearch.com∣www.Springer.com/journal/12274 | Nano Research 
13 
Nano Res. 2019, 12, 1401–1409.  
[81] Chen, F.; Li, T. B.; Pan, X. L.; Guo, Y. L.; Han, B.; Liu, F.; Qiao, 
B. T.; Wang, A. Q.; Zhang, T. Pd1/CeO2 single-atom catalyst for 
alkoxycarbonylation of aryl iodides. Sci. China Mater., in press, 
DOI: 10.1007/s40843-019-1204-y.  
[82] Liu, K. L.; Qin, R. X.; Zhou, L. Y
.; Liu, P. X.; Zhang, Q. H.; Jing, W. T.; 
Ruan, P. P.; Gu, L.; Fu, G.; Zheng, N. F. Cu2O-supported atomically 
dispersed Pd catalysts for semihydrogenation of terminal alkynes: 
Critical role of oxide supports. CCS Chem. 2019, 1, 207–214.  
[83] Zhou, X.; Shen, Q.; Yuan, K. D.; Yang, W. S.; Chen, Q. W.; Geng, Z. H.; 
Zhang, J. L.; Shao, X.; Chen, W.; Xu, G. Q. et al. Unraveling charge 
State of supported Au single-atoms during CO oxidation. J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 2018, 140, 554–557.  
[84] Li, J. J.; Guan, Q. Q.; Wu, H.; Liu, W.; Lin, Y
.; Sun, Z. H.; Ye, X. X.; 
Zheng, X. S.; Pan, H. B.; Zhu, J. F. et al. Highly active and stable 
metal single-atom catalysts achieved by strong electronic metal–support 
interactions. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 14515–14519.  
[85] Zhang, J.; Wu, X.; Cheong, W. C.; Chen, W. X.; Lin, R.; Li, J.; Zheng, L. 
R.; Yan, W. S.; Gu, L.; Chen, C. et al. Cation vacancy stabilization of 
single-atomic-site Pt1/Ni(OH)x catalyst for diboration of alkynes and 
alkenes. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 1002.  
[86] Wang, F. F.; Li, Q.; Xu, D. S. Recent progress in semiconductor- 
based nanocomposite photocatalysts for solar-to-chemical energy 
conversion. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1700529.  
[87] Chandrasekaran, S.; Yao, L.; Deng, L. B.; Bowen, C.; Zhang, Y.; 
Chen, S. M.; Lin, Z. Q.; Peng, F.; Zhang, P. X. Recent advances in metal 
sulfides: From controlled fabrication to electrocatalytic, photocatalytic 
and photoelectrochemical water splitting and beyond. Chem. Soc. Rev. 
2019, 48, 4178–4280.  
[88] Wang, B.; Cai, H. R.; Shen, S. H. Single metal atom photocatalysis. 
Small Methods 2019, 3, 1800447.  
[89] Liu, L. C.; Corma, A. Metal catalysts for heterogeneous catalysis: From 
single atoms to nanoclusters and nanoparticles. Chem. Rev. 2018, 118, 
4981–5079.  
[90] Li, H. S.; Wang, S. S.; Sawada, H.; Han, G. G. D.; Samuels, T.; 
Allen, C. S.; Kirkland, A. I.; Grossman, J. C.; Warner, J. H. Atomic 
structure and dynamics of single platinum atom interactions with 
monolayer MoS2. ACS Nano 2017, 11, 3392–3403.  
[91] Liu, G. L.; Robertson, A. W.; Li, M. M. J.; Kuo, W. C. H.; Darby, M. 
T.; Muhieddine, M. H.; Lin, Y. C.; Suenaga, K.; Stamatakis, M.; 
Warner, J. H. et al. MoS2 monolayer catalyst doped with isolated 
Co atoms for the hydrodeoxygenation reaction. Nat. Chem. 2017, 9, 
810–816.  
[92] Liu, J.; Zhao, Q.; Liu, J. L.; Wu, Y
. S.; Cheng, Y
.; Ji, M. W.; Qian, H. M.; 
Hao, W. C.; Zhang, L. J.; Wei, X. J. et al. Heterovalent-doping- 
enabled efficient dopant luminescence and controllable electronic 
impurity via a new strategy of preparing II−VI nanocrystals. Adv. 
Mater. 2015, 27, 2753–2761.  
[93] Wang, H. Z.; Gao, Y. Y.; Liu, J.; Li, X. Y.; Ji, M. W.; Zhang, E. H.; 
Cheng, X. Y
.; Xu, M.; Liu, J. J.; Rong, H. P. et al. Efficient plasmonic 
Au/CdSe nanodumbbell for photoelectrochemical hydrogen genera-
tion beyond visible region. Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 9, 1803889.  
[94] Pan, R. R.; Liu, J.; Li, Y. M.; Li, X. Y.; Zhang, E. H.; Di, Q. M.; Su, 
M. Y.; Zhang, J. T. Electronic doping-enabled transition from n- to 
p-type conductivity over Au@CdS core–shell nanocrystals toward 
unassisted photoelectrochemical water splitting. J. Mater. Chem. A 
2019, 7, 23038–23045.  
[95] Shen, R. G
.; Chen, W. X.; Peng, Q.; Lu, S. Q.; Zheng, L. R.; Cao, X.; 
Wang, Y
.; Zhu, W.; Zhang, J. T.; Zhuang, Z. B. et al. High-concentration 
single atomic Pt sites on hollow CuSx for selective O2 reduction to 
H2O2 in acid solution. Chem 2019, 5, 2099–2110.  
[96] Ge, J. J.; He, D. S.; Chen, W. X.; Ju, H. X.; Zhang, H.; Chao, T. T.; 
Wang, X. Q.; You, R.; Lin, Y.; Wang, Y. et al. Atomically dispersed 
Ru on ultrathin Pd nanoribbons. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 
13850–13853.  
[97] Zhang, H. J.; Watanabe, T.; Okumura, M.; Haruta, M.; Toshima, N. 
Catalytically highly active top gold atom on palladium nanocluster. 
Nat. Mater. 2012, 11, 49–52.  
[98] Pei, G. X.; Liu, X. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Lee, A. F.; Isaacs, M. A.; Li, L.; 
Pan, X. L.; Yang, X. F.; Wang, X. D.; Tai, Z. J. et al. Ag alloyed Pd single- 
atom catalysts for efficient selective hydrogenation of acetylene to 
ethylene in excess ethylene. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 3717–3725. 
[99] Mao, J. J.; He, C. T.; Pei, J. J.; Chen, W. X.; He, D. S.; He, Y. Q.; 
Zhuang, Z. B.; Chen, C.; Peng, Q.; Wang, D. S. et al. Accelerating 
water dissociation kinetics by isolating cobalt atoms into ruthenium 
lattice. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4958.  
[100] Liu, J. L.; Lucci, F. R.; Yang, M.; Lee, S.; Marcinkowski, M. D.; 
Therrien, A. J.; Williams, C. T.; Sykes, E. C. H.; Flytzani- 
Stephanopoulos, M. Tackling CO poisoning with single-atom alloy 
catalysts. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 6396–6399. 
[101] Yao, Y. C.; Hu, S. L.; Chen, W. X.; Huang, Z. Q.; Wei, W. C.; Yao, 
T.; Liu, R. R.; Zang, K. T.; Wang, X. Q.; Wu, G. et al. Engineering 
the electronic structure of single atom Ru sites via compressive 
strain boosts acidic water oxidation electrocatalysis. Nat. Catal. 
2019, 2, 304–313.  
[102] Rong, H. P.; Mao, J. J.; Xin, P. Y.; He, D. S.; Chen, Y. J.; Wang, D. 
S.; Niu, Z. Q.; Wu, Y.; Li, Y. D. Kinetically controlling surface 
structure to construct defect-rich intermetallic nanocrystals: Effective 
and stable catalysts. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 2540–2546.  
[103] Wu, H. H.; Li, H. B.; Zhao, X. F.; Liu, Q. F.; Wang, J.; Xiao, J. P.; 
Xie, S. H.; Si, R.; Yang, F.; Miao, S. et al. Highly doped and exposed 
Cu(I)–N active sites within graphene towards efficient oxygen 
reduction for zinc–air batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 2016, 9, 
3736–3745.  
[104] Zhang, H. N.; Li, J.; Xi, S. B.; Du, Y. H.; Hai, X.; Wang, J. Y.; Xu, 
H. M.; Wu, G.; Zhang, J.; Lu, J. et al. A graphene-supported single- 
atom FeN5 catalytic site for efficient electrochemical CO2 reduction. 
Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 14871–14876.  
[105] Wang, X. Q.; Chen, Z.; Zhao, X. Y.; Yao, T.; Chen, W. X.; You, R.; 
Zhao, C. M.; Wu, G.; Wang, J.; Huang, W. X. et al. Regulation of 
coordination number over single Co sites: Triggering the efficient 
electroreduction of CO2. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 1944– 
1948.  
[106] Pan, Y
.; Chen, Y
. J.; Wu, K. L.; Chen, Z.; Liu, S. J.; Cao, X.; Cheong, 
W. C.; Meng, T.; Luo, J.; Zheng, L. R. et al. Regulating the coordination 
structure of single-atom Fe-NxCy catalytic sites for benzene oxidation. 
Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4290.  
[107] Qu, Y. T.; Li, Z. J.; Chen, W. X.; Lin, Y.; Yuan, T. W.; Yang, Z. K.; 
Zhao, C. M.; Wang, J.; Zhao, C.; Wang, X. et al. Direct transformation 
of bulk copper into copper single sites via emitting and trapping of 
atoms. Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 781–786.  
[108] Wei, S. J.; Li, A.; Liu, J. C.; Li, Z.; Chen, W. X.; Gong, Y.; Zhang, 
Q. H.; Cheong, W. C.; Wang, Y
.; Zheng, L. R. et al. Direct observation 
of noble metal nanoparticles transforming to thermally stable 
single atoms. Nat. Nanotechnol. 2018, 13, 856–861.  
[109] Ke, J.; Zhu, W.; Jiang, Y. Y.; Si, R.; Wang, Y. J.; Li, S. C.; Jin, C. 
H.; Liu, H. C.; Song, W. G.; Yan, C. H. et al. Strong local coordination 
structure effects on subnanometer PtOx clusters over CeO2 nanowires 
probed by low-temperature CO oxidation. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 
5164–5173.  
[110] Nan, B.; Hu, X. C.; Wang, X.; Jia, C. J.; Ma, C.; Li, M. X.; Si, R. 
Effects of multiple platinum species on catalytic reactivity distinguished 
by electron microscopy and X-ray absorption spectroscopy techniques. 
J. Phys. Chem. C 2017, 121, 25805–25817.  
[111] Ren, Y. J.; Tang, Y.; Zhang, L. L.; Liu, X. Y.; Li, L.; Miao, S.; Su, 
D. S.; Wang, A. Q.; Li, J.; Zhang, T. Unraveling the coordination 
structure-performance relationship in Pt1/Fe2O3 single-atom catalyst. 
Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4500.  
[112] Ye, T. N.; Xiao, Z. W.; Li, J.; Gong, Y
. T.; Abe, H.; Niwa, Y
.; Sasase, 
M.; Kitano, M.; Hosono, H. Stable single platinum atoms trapped 
in sub-nanometer cavities in 12CaO·7Al2O3 for chemoselective 
hydrogenation of nitroarenes. Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 1020.  
[113] Shen, G. Q.; Zhang, R. R.; Pan, L.; Hou, F.; Zhao, Y. J.; Shen, Z. Y.; 
Mi, W. B.; Shi, C. X.; Wang, Q. F.; Zhang, X. W. et al. Regulating 
the spin state of FeIII by atomically anchoring on ultrathin titanium 
dioxide for efficient oxygen evolution electrocatalysis. Angew. 
Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 2313–2317.  
[114] Zhao, G. F.; Yang, F.; Chen, Z. J.; Liu, Q. F.; Ji, Y. J.; Zhang, Y.; 
Niu, Z. Q.; Mao, J. J.; Bao, X. H.; Hu, P. J. et al. Metal/oxide interfacial 
effects on the selective oxidation of primary alcohols. Nat. Commun. 
2017, 8, 14039.  
[115] Lei, Y.; Liu, B.; Lu, J. L.; Libera, J. A.; Greeley, J. P.; Elam, J. W. 
Effects of chlorine in titanium oxide on palladium atomic layer 
deposition. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118, 22611–22619.  
 
Nano Res.  
 | www.editorialmanager.com/nare/default.asp 
14 
[116] Yin, X.; Utetiwabo, W.; Sun, S. H.; Lian, Y. M.; Chen, R. J.; Yang, 
W. Incorporation of CeF3 on single-atom dispersed Fe/N/C with 
oxophilic interface as highly durable electrocatalyst for proton 
exchange membrane fuel cell. J. Catal. 2019, 374, 43–50.  
[117] Wang, J.; Huang, Z. Q.; Liu, W.; Chang, C. R.; Tang, H. L.; Li, Z. 
J.; Chen, W. X.; Jia, C. J.; Yao, T.; Wei, S. Q. et al. Design of N- 
coordinated dual-metal sites: A stable and active Pt-free catalyst 
for acidic oxygen reduction reaction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 
17281−17284. 
[118] Lu, Z. Y.; Wang, B.; Hu, Y. F.; Liu, W.; Zhao, Y. F.; Yang, R. O.; Li, 
Z. P.; Luo, J.; Chi, B.; Jiang, Z. et al. An isolated zinc–cobalt atomic 
pair for highly active and durable oxygen reduction. Angew. Chem., 
Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 2622–2626.  
[119] Zhang, L.; Si, R. T.; Liu, H. S.; Chen, N.; Wang, Q.; Adair, K.; Wang, 
Z. Q.; Chen, J. T.; Song, Z. X.; Li, J. J. et al. Atomic layer deposited 
Pt-Ru dual-metal dimers and identifying their active sites for 
hydrogen evolution reaction. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4936.  
[120] Bai, L. C.; Hsu, C. S.; Alexander, D. T. L.; Chen, H. M.; Hu, X. L. 
A cobalt–iron double-atom catalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction. 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 14190–14199.  
[121] Nguyen, L.; Zhang, S. R.; Tan, L.; Tang, Y.; Liu, J. Y.; Tao, F. F. 
Ir1Znn bimetallic site for efficient production of hydrogen from 
methanol. ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 18793−18800.  
[122] Han, X. P.; Ling, X. F.; Yu, D. S.; Xie, D. Y.; Li, L. L.; Peng, S. J.; 
Zhong, C.; Zhao, N. Q.; Deng, Y
. D.; Hu, W. B. Atomically dispersed 
binary Co-Ni sites in nitrogen-doped hollow carbon nanocubes for 
reversible oxygen reduction and evolution. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 
1905622.  
[123] Wu, K. L.; Chen, X.; Liu, S. J.; Pan, Y.; Cheong, W. C.; Zhu, W.; 
Cao, X.; Shen, R. G
.; Chen, W. X.; Luo, J. et al. Porphyrin-like Fe-N4 
sites with sulfur adjustment on hierarchical porous carbon for 
different rate-determining steps in oxygen reduction reaction. 
Nano Res. 2018, 11, 6260–6269.  
[124] Mun, Y.; Lee, S.; Kim, K.; Kim, S.; Lee, S.; Han, J. W.; Lee, J. 
Versatile strategy for tuning ORR activity of a single Fe-N4 site by 
controlling electron-withdrawing/donating properties of a carbon 
plane. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 6254–6262.  
[125] Chen, Y. J.; Ji, S. F.; Zhao, S.; Chen, W. X.; Dong, J. C.; Cheong, 
W. C.; Shen, R. A.; Wen, X. D.; Zheng, L. R.; Rykov, A. I. et al. 
Enhanced oxygen reduction with single-atomic-site iron catalysts 
for a zinc-air battery and hydrogen-air fuel cell. Nat. Commun. 
2018, 9, 5422.  
 
