<quotes>

[1] "The majority of papers focus on some specific aspects that may affect the reactivity of the catalysts investigated. For instance, in the case of supported metal oxide catalysts, in addition to the usual morphological aspects, some of the important features affecting the performance are: the degree of agglomeration of Me cations (from isolated units to bulk Me oxide); acidbase characteristics; the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions; the collective electronic properties of the solid."
[2] "In propane ODH, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per V- atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants."
[3] "The selectivity to the corresponding olefins shows a peak for intermediate values of active phase loading, which corresponds to the development of the monolayer structure."
[4] "The extent of V reduction during steady-state ODH is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+."
[5] "The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends only on alkane/O2 ratios."
[6] "The fraction of V-atoms that exist as catalytically reduced centers increases with increasing vanadia surface density and domain size up to surface densities typical of polyvanadate monolayers, and then reaches nearly constant values at higher surface densities;therefore, both isolated and polymeric species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than the isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation."
[7] "The selectivity to propylene formation is affected by surface reduction: the higher the surface reduction, the higher the selectivity."
[8] "The use of N2O to replace O2 causes the development of a more reduced, and more selective, surface."
[9] "The extent of reduction of the surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support: V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2; the reac- tivity, TOF, in ethane ODH follows the same ranking."
[10] "The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH has been investigated by many authors."
[11] "In general, in propane ODH catalysts made of Voxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with the alumina support, and the latter are more selective than those supported on titania, mainly because of the lower extent of parallel propane combustion, especially at low vanadia loading."
[12] "The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures."
[13] "The selectivity to propylene can be also correlated with thework functionvalues which decrease in the series: VWTi > VTi > VFe- Ti > VAlTi > VCaTi."
[14] "The relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives (MoOx and WOx) are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene, while the surfaceCrOxmodifierhasgreaterintrinsicactivity for propane activation than the surface VOx sites."
[15] "With different metal oxides, turnover rates reflect CH bond cleavage activation energies which, in turn, are influenced by the reducibility of these metal oxides."
[16] "The relative propane ODH and propylene combustion rates depend not only on CH bond energy differences but also on the adsorption enthalpies for propylene and propane, which reflect the Lewis acidity of cations involved in the bonding of molecules on oxide surfaces."
[17] "Additives (e.g., P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn and Mo), sometimes added in relevant amount with respect to V,modify acidbasic and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide."
[18] "Modification of these properties affects catalytic performance in ODH; in samples where an increase of the concentration of acid sites is observed (due to the increase in the electronegativity of the additive ions), the total activity increases."
[19] "The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases the activity and increases the selectivity to propylene in propane ODH."
[20] "The order of the increasing selectivities to propylene in propane ODH follows the order of the increasing basicity and the increasing MO bond energy."
[21] "On the contrary, selectivity to ethylene in the ODH of ethane does not depend on the acidic properties or on the MO bond strength."
[22] "Also, the basicity of the support may greatly affect selectivity."
[23] "The main drawback of these systems is that they do not always maintain the structure if high V contents are incorporated; furthermore, the incorporated V species may sometimes be easily withdrawn from the structure during the reaction."
[24] "In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites (related to the presence of Co2+ cations) and redox sites (related to the presence of V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the ODH of ethane."
[25] "In general, catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used."
[26] "Propane ODH rates per Mo atom increase with increasing Mo surface density and reach a maximum value for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2; this behavior reflects an increase in the reactivity of surface Mo species."
[27] "The size of MoOx domains also affects the Mo O strength; stronger Mo O bonds show lower ODH activity."
[28] "The presence of alkali (Cs, K, Li) affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties."
[29] "Propane ODH turnover rates decreases monotonically while increasing both the dopant/Mo atomic ratio and the basicity of the alkali oxide (Cs > K > Li)."
[30] "These basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds; as a result, rate-determining CH bond activation step, which involves the local reduction of Mo centers, proceed more slowly."
[31] "The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects the weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by the basic dopants; this accounts for the higher selectivity to propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The reactivity of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, in alkane transformations is influenced by several factors. These include the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In the case of vanadium oxide catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, the catalytic activity increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per vanadium atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants. The selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate values of active phase loading, corresponding to the development of the monolayer structure. The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+. The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation. The selectivity to propylene formation is affected by surface reduction, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity. The use of N2O instead of O2 causes the development of a more reduced and more selective surface. The extent of reduction of surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support, with reactivity following the same ranking. The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation has been extensively studied. Catalysts made of vanadium oxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with alumina or titania supports, mainly due to the lower extent of parallel propane combustion at low vanadia loading. The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures. The selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values. The relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene. Turnover rates reflect CH bond cleavage activation energies, influenced by the reducibility of metal oxides. The relative propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propylene combustion rates depend on CH bond energy differences and the adsorption enthalpies for propylene and propane, reflecting the Lewis acidity of cations involved in the bonding of molecules on oxide surfaces. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide, affecting catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation. The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases activity and increases selectivity to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The order of increasing selectivities to propylene follows the order of increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Selectivity to ethylene in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation does not depend on acidic properties or MO bond strength. The basicity of the support may greatly affect selectivity. The main drawback of systems with high vanadium content is that they do not always maintain structure, and the incorporated vanadium species may be easily withdrawn during the reaction. In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites seems to be important for achieving high selectivities to ethylene during ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalysts based on supported molybdenum oxide are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increase with increasing Mo surface density, reaching a maximum for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting increased reactivity of surface Mo species. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger Mo O bonds showing lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. The presence of alkali affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates decrease monotonically with increasing dopant/Mo atomic ratio and basicity of the alkali oxide. Basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds, slowing down the rate-determining CH bond activation step involving local reduction of Mo centers. The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by basic dopants, accounting for higher selectivity to propylene.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂，包括负载的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，在烷烃转化中的反应性受多种因素影响。这些因素包括金属阳离子的聚集程度、酸碱特性、反应条件下金属阳离子的价态以及固体的集体电子性质。在丙烷氧化脱氢中，钒氧化物催化剂的催化活性随着V2O5负载量的增加而增加，而每钒原子的速率在VOx域的中间大小时达到最大，这在表面VOx物种的活性和它们对反应物的可及性之间提供了平衡。对烯烃的选择性在活性相负载的中间值时达到峰值，这对应于单层结构的形成。在稳态氧化脱氢期间，钒的还原程度远低于V5+到V4+或V3+的化学计量还原。催化显著还原中心的数量仅取决于烷烃/O2比率。孤立和聚合的钒物种都是活性的，但在稳态烷烃氧化期间，聚合表面VO4物种比孤立物种更广泛地还原。丙烯形成的选择性受表面还原的影响：表面还原程度越高，选择性越高。使用N2O代替O2会导致更还原和更具选择性的表面的形成。表面V5+物种的还原程度也取决于特定的氧化物载体，反应性遵循相同的排名。关于钒氧化物在烷烃氧化脱氢中的反应性，载体的作用已经得到了许多作者的研究。由负载在二氧化硅上的钒氧化物制成的催化剂比那些使用氧化铝或二氧化钛的催化剂更具选择性，这主要是因为在低钒含量加载时，平行丙烷燃烧的程度较低。活性VOx域的还原和催化性质可以显著受到二元分散结构形成的影响。丙烯的选择性也可以与功函数值相关联。相对惰性的二次表面金属氧化物添加剂能够弱吸附丙烷，以预前体状态供应催化活性VOx位点，用于丙烷活化为丙烯。周转率反映了CH键断裂活化能，这反过来又受到金属氧化物还原性的影晌。丙烷氧化脱氢和丙烯燃烧的相对速率不仅取决于CH键能量差异，还取决于丙烯和丙烷的吸附焓，这反映了在氧化物表面上与分子键合的阳离子的路易斯酸性。添加剂修改了负载的钒氧化物的酸碱性和氧化还原性质，影响了氧化脱氢中的催化性能。添加碱金属和碱土金属掺杂剂降低了活性，增加了丙烷氧化脱氢中对丙烯的选择性。丙烯选择性增加的顺序遵循基本性和MO键能增加的顺序。在乙烷氧化脱氢中，对乙烯的选择性不依赖于酸性性质或MO键强度。载体的基本性可能对选择性产生重大影响。高钒含量系统的缺点是它们并不总是保持结构，而且在反应过程中，掺入的钒物种可能很容易被撤出。在VCoAPO-18的情况下，酸性和氧化还原位点的存在似乎对于在乙烷氧化脱氢期间实现对乙烯的高选择性很重要。基于负载的钼氧化物的催化剂通常不如基于钒的催化剂活性高，无论使用何种载体。每钼原子的丙烷氧化脱氢速率随着Mo表面密度的增加而增加，在样品具有4.5 Mo/nm2时达到最大值，这反映了表面Mo物种反应性的增加。MoOx域的大小也影响Mo O强度；Mo O键越强，氧化脱氢活性越低。碱金属的存在影响MoOx域的结构，并影响其电子和催化性质。丙烷氧化脱氢周转率随着掺杂剂/Mo原子比和碱金属氧化物的基本性增加而单调下降。这些碱性氧化物通过加强MoO键抑制MoOx的初始还原；结果，涉及Mo中心局部还原的速率决定性CH键活化步骤进行得更慢。二次丙烯燃烧的更强抑制反映了当用碱性掺杂剂修饰时Mo位点的较弱路易斯酸性；这解释了对丙烯的更高选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
