<quotes>

[1] "The majority of papers focus on some specific aspects that may affect the reactivity of the catalysts investigated. For instance, in the case of supported metal oxide catalysts, in addition to the usual morphological aspects, some of the important features affecting the performance are: the degree of agglomeration of Me cations (from isolated units to bulk Me oxide); acidbase characteristics; the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions; the collective electronic properties of the solid."
[2] "In propane ODH, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per V- atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants."
[3] "The selectivity to the corresponding olefins shows a peak for intermediate values of active phase loading, which corresponds to the development of the monolayer structure."
[4] "The extent of V reduction during steady-state ODH is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+."
[5] "The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends only on alkane/O2 ratios."
[6] "The fraction of V-atoms that exist as catalytically reduced centers increases with increasing vanadia surface density and domain size up to surface densities typical of polyvanadate monolayers, and then reaches nearly constant values at higher surface densities;therefore, both isolated and polymeric species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than the isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation."
[7] "The selectivity to propylene formation is affected by surface reduction: the higher the surface reduction, the higher the selectivity."
[8] "The use of N2O to replace O2 causes the development of a more reduced, and more selective, surface."
[9] "The extent of reduction of the surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support: V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2; the reac- tivity, TOF, in ethane ODH follows the same ranking."
[10] "The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH has been investigated by many authors."
[11] "In general, in propane ODH catalysts made of Voxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with the alumina support, and the latter are more selective than those supported on titania, mainly because of the lower extent of parallel propane combustion, especially at low vanadia loading."
[12] "The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures."
[13] "The selectivity to propylene can be also correlated with thework functionvalues which decrease in the series: VWTi > VTi > VFe- Ti > VAlTi > VCaTi."
[14] "The relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives (MoOx and WOx) are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene, while the surfaceCrOxmodifierhasgreaterintrinsicactivity for propane activation than the surface VOx sites."
[15] "With different metal oxides, turnover rates reflect CH bond cleavage activation energies which, in turn, are influenced by the reducibility of these metal oxides."
[16] "Additives (e.g., P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn and Mo), sometimes added in relevant amount with respect to V,modify acidbasic and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide."
[17] "Modification of these properties affects catalytic performance in ODH; in samples where an increase of the concentration of acid sites is observed (due to the increase in the electronegativity of the additive ions), the total activity increases."
[18] "The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases the activity and increases the selectivity to propylene in propane ODH."
[19] "The order of the increasing selectivities to propylene in propane ODH follows the order of the increasing basicity and the increasing MO bond energy."
[20] "The basicity of the support may greatly affect selectivity."
[21] "The use of a basic metal oxide support results in improved selectivity because of the possible rapid desorption of the electron-rich propylene product before further combustion to COx."
[22] "In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites (related to the presence of Co2+ cations) and redox sites (related to the presence of V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the ODH of ethane."
[23] "In general, catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used."
[24] "Propane ODH rates per Mo atom increase with increasing Mo surface density and reach a maximum value for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2; this behavior reflects an increase in the reactivity of surface Mo species."
[25] "The size of MoOx domains also affects the Mo O strength; stronger Mo O bonds show lower ODH activity."
[26] "The presence of alkali (Cs, K, Li) affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties."
[27] "Propane ODH turnover rates decreases monotonically while increasing both the dopant/Mo atomic ratio and the basicity of the alkali oxide (Cs > K > Li)."
[28] "These basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds; as a result, rate-determining CH bond activation step, which involves the local reduction of Mo centers, proceed more slowly."
[29] "The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects the weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by the basic dopants; this accounts for the higher selectivity to propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. Important features affecting the performance include the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per vanadium atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants. The selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate values of active phase loading, corresponding to the development of the monolayer structure. The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+. The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation. Surface reduction affects the selectivity to propylene formation: the higher the surface reduction, the higher the selectivity. The use of N2O instead of O2 causes the development of a more reduced and more selective surface. The extent of reduction of the surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support. The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation has been extensively studied. Catalysts made of vanadium oxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with alumina support, which are more selective than those supported on titania, mainly due to the lower extent of parallel propane combustion, especially at low vanadia loading. The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures. The selectivity to propylene can be correlated with the work function values. The relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propylene. With different metal oxides, turnover rates reflect CH bond cleavage activation energies, influenced by the reducibility of these metal oxides. Additives modify the acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide, affecting catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation. The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases activity and increases selectivity to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The order of increasing selectivities to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation follows the order of increasing basicity and increasing MO bond energy. The basicity of the support greatly affects selectivity. The use of a basic metal oxide support results in improved selectivity due to the possible rapid desorption of the electron-rich propylene product before further combustion to COx. In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites and redox sites seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. In general, catalysts based on supported molybdenum oxide are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increase with increasing Mo surface density and reach a maximum value for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting an increase in the reactivity of surface Mo species. The size of MoOx domains affects the Mo O strength; stronger Mo O bonds show lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. The presence of alkali affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates decrease monotonically with increasing dopant/Mo atomic ratio and the basicity of the alkali oxide. These basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds, resulting in slower rate-determining CH bond activation steps involving the local reduction of Mo centers. The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects the weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by basic dopants, accounting for the higher selectivity to propylene.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括负载型钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。影响催化剂性能的重要特征包括金属阳离子的聚集程度、酸碱特性、反应条件下金属阳离子的价态以及固体的集体电子性质。在丙烷氧化脱氢中，钒氧化物催化剂的催化活性随着V2O5负载量的增加而增加，而每钒原子的速率在VOx域的中间大小时达到最大，这在表面VOx物种的活性和它们对反应物的可及性之间提供了平衡。对相应烯烃的选择性在活性相负载的中间值时达到峰值，这对应于单层结构的形成。在稳态氧化脱氢期间，钒的还原程度远低于V5+到V4+或V3+的计量还原。催化显著还原中心的数量仅取决于烷烃/O2比率。孤立和聚合物种都是活性的，但在稳态烷烃氧化期间，聚合表面VO4物种比孤立物种更广泛地还原。表面还原影响丙烯形成的选择性：表面还原程度越高，选择性越高。使用N2O代替O2会导致更还原和更具选择性的表面的形成。表面V5+物种的还原程度也取决于特定的氧化物载体。载体对钒氧化物在烷烃氧化脱氢中的反应性的作用已被广泛研究。由负载在二氧化硅上的钒氧化物制成的催化剂比那些使用氧化铝载体的催化剂更具选择性，而后者比那些使用二氧化钛的催化剂更具选择性，这主要是由于在较低的钒酸盐负载下，平行丙烷燃烧的程度较低。VOx域的还原和催化性质可以显著受到二元分散结构的形成的影响。丙烯的选择性也可以与功函数值相关联。相对惰性的二次表面金属氧化物添加剂能够弱吸附丙烷，以一种前体状态供给催化活性VOx位点，用于丙烷活化为丙烯。使用不同的金属氧化物，周转率反映了CH键断裂活化能，这些活化能受到这些金属氧化物的还原性的影晌。添加剂修改了负载型钒氧化物的酸碱性和氧化还原性质，影响了氧化脱氢中的催化性能。添加碱金属和碱土金属掺杂剂降低了活性，增加了丙烷氧化脱氢中对丙烯的选择性。丙烷氧化脱氢中对丙烯的增加选择性的顺序遵循增加的碱性和增加的MO键能的顺序。载体的碱性可能极大地影响选择性。使用碱性金属氧化物载体由于可能快速脱附电子丰富的丙烯产物，从而避免进一步燃烧为COx，从而提高了选择性。在VCoAPO-18的情况下，酸性位点（与Co2+阳离子的存在有关）和氧化还原位点（与V5+/4+和Co3+/2+的存在有关）的存在似乎是实现高选择性到乙烯在乙烷氧化脱氢期间的一个重要因素。一般来说，基于负载型钼氧化物的催化剂，无论使用何种载体，其活性都低于基于钒的催化剂。每钼原子的丙烷氧化脱氢速率随着Mo表面密度的增加而增加，并且对于具有4.5 Mo/nm2的样品达到最大值，这反映了表面Mo物种反应性的增加。MoOx域的大小也影响Mo O强度；更强的Mo O键显示出较低的氧化脱氢活性。碱金属（Cs、K、Li）的存在影响MoOx域的结构，并影响其电子和催化性质。丙烷氧化脱氢周转率随着掺杂剂/Mo原子比和碱性氧化物的碱性增加而单调下降。这些碱性氧化物通过增强MoO键来抑制MoOx的初始还原；结果，涉及Mo中心局部还原的决定速率的CH键活化步骤进行得更慢。二次丙烯燃烧的更强抑制反映了当用碱性掺杂剂改性时Mo位点的较弱Lewis酸性；这解释了对丙烯的更高选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
