<quotes>

[1] "The majority of papers focus on some specific aspects that may affect the reactivity of the catalysts investigated. For instance, in the case of supported metal oxide catalysts, in addition to the usual morphological aspects, some of the important features affecting the performance are: the degree of agglomeration of Me cations (from isolated units to bulk Me oxide); acidbase characteristics; the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions; the collective electronic properties of the solid."
[2] "In propane ODH, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per V- atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants."
[3] "The selectivity to the corresponding olefins shows a peak for intermediate values of active phase loading, which corresponds to the development of the monolayer structure."
[4] "The extent of V reduction during steady-state ODH is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+."
[5] "The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends only on alkane/O2 ratios."
[6] "The fraction of V-atoms that exist as catalytically reduced centers increases with increasing vanadia surface density and domain size up to surface densities typical of polyvanadate monolayers, and then reaches nearly constant values at higher surface densities;therefore, both isolated and polymeric species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than the isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation."
[7] "The selectivity to propylene formation is affected by surface reduction: the higher the surface reduction, the higher the selectivity."
[8] "The use of N2O to replace O2 causes the development of a more reduced, and more selective, surface."
[9] "The extent of reduction of the surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support: V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2; the reac- tivity, TOF, in ethane ODH follows the same ranking."
[10] "The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH has been investigated by many authors."
[11] "In general, in propane ODH catalysts made of Voxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with the alumina support, and the latter are more selective than those supported on titania, mainly because of the lower extent of parallel propane combustion, especially at low vanadia loading."
[12] "The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures."
[13] "Additives (e.g., P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn and Mo), sometimes added in relevant amount with respect to V,modify acidbasic and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide."
[14] "Modification of these properties affects catalytic performance in ODH; in samples where an increase of the concentration of acid sites is observed (due to the increase in the electronegativity of the additive ions), the total activity increases."
[15] "The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases the activity and increases the selectivity to propylene in propane ODH."
[16] "The order of the increasing selectivities to propylene in propane ODH follows the order of the increasing basicity and the increasing MO bond energy."
[17] "A key factor in the design of efficient catalysts for alkane ODH is the isolation of active sites."
[18] "Therefore, the isomorphous substitution of active metal species,e.g.,vanadium, into microporous and mesoporous materials is an attractive strategy for designing new catalysts for this reaction."
[19] "The main drawback of these systems is that they do not always maintain the structure if high V contents are incorporated; furthermore, the incorporated V species may sometimes be easily withdrawn from the structure during the reaction."
[20] "In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites (related to the presence of Co2+ cations) and redox sites (related to the presence of V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the ODH of ethane."
[21] "One of the best performing catalysts in propane ODH is the VOx-SBA-15 system, prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, in which the introduction of V species onto the inner walls of SBA-15 provides a system with a large concentration of accessible, isolated and structurally well- defined active sites."
[22] "In general, catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used."
[23] "Propane ODH rates per Mo atom increase with increasing Mo surface density and reach a maximum value for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2; this behavior reflects an increase in the reactivity of surface Mo species."
[24] "The size of MoOx domains also affects the Mo O strength; stronger Mo O bonds show lower ODH activity."
[25] "The presence of alkali (Cs, K, Li) affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties."
[26] "Propane ODH turnover rates decreases monotonically while increasing both the dopant/Mo atomic ratio and the basicity of the alkali oxide (Cs > K > Li)."
[27] "These basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds; as a result, rate-determining CH bond activation step, which involves the local reduction of Mo centers, proceed more slowly."
[28] "The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects the weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by the basic dopants; this accounts for the higher selectivity to propylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Important factors include the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the collective electronic properties of the solid. The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per vanadium atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants. The selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate values of active phase loading, corresponding to the development of the monolayer structure. The extent of vanadium reduction during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+. The number of catalytically significant reduced centers depends on alkane/O2 ratios. Both isolated and polymeric species are active, but polymerized surface VO4 species are more extensively reduced than isolated species during steady-state alkane oxidation. The selectivity to propylene formation is affected by surface reduction, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity. The use of N2O instead of O2 causes the development of a more reduced and more selective surface. The extent of reduction of surface V5+ species also depends on the specific oxide support, with reactivity following the same ranking. The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation has been extensively studied. Catalysts made of vanadium oxide supported on silica are more selective than those made with alumina support, which are more selective than those supported on titania, mainly due to the lower extent of parallel propane combustion at low vanadia loading. The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures. Additives such as P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn, and Mo modify the acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide, affecting catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation. An increase in the concentration of acid sites, due to the increase in the electronegativity of the additive ions, increases total activity. The addition of alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreases activity and increases selectivity to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The order of increasing selectivities to propylene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation follows the order of increasing basicity and increasing MO bond energy. A key factor in designing efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation is the isolation of active sites. The isomorphous substitution of active metal species, such as vanadium, into microporous and mesoporous materials is an attractive strategy for designing new catalysts for this reaction. However, these systems do not always maintain structure if high vanadium contents are incorporated, and the incorporated vanadium species may sometimes be easily withdrawn from the structure during the reaction. In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites and redox sites seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. One of the best performing catalysts in propane oxidative dehydrogenation is the VOx-SBA-15 system, which provides a large concentration of accessible, isolated, and structurally well-defined active sites. Catalysts based on supported molybdenum oxide are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, regardless of the support used. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom increase with increasing Mo surface density and reach a maximum value for samples with 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting an increase in the reactivity of surface Mo species. The size of MoOx domains affects the Mo O strength, with stronger Mo O bonds showing lower oxidative dehydrogenation activity. The presence of alkali affects the structure of MoOx domains and influences their electronic and catalytic properties. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation turnover rates decrease monotonically with increasing dopant/Mo atomic ratio and the basicity of the alkali oxide. Basic oxides inhibit the initial reduction of MoOx by strengthening MoO bonds, slowing the rate-determining CH bond activation step, which involves the local reduction of Mo centers. The stronger inhibition of secondary propylene combustion reflects the weaker Lewis acidity of Mo sites when modified by basic dopants, accounting for the higher selectivity to propylene.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括负载的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，影响氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应中烷烃转化的机制和效率。重要的因素包括金属阳离子的聚集程度、酸碱特性、金属阳离子在反应条件下的价态以及固体的集体电子性质。在丙烷氧化脱氢中，钒氧化物催化剂的催化活性随着V2O5负载量的增加而增加，而每钒原子的速率在VOx域的中间大小达到最大，提供了表面VOx物种的活性和它们对反应物的可及性之间的平衡。选择性到烯烃在活性相加载的中间值时达到峰值，对应于单层结构的发展。在稳态氧化脱氢期间，钒的还原程度远低于V5+到V4+或V3+的计量还原。催化显著还原中心的数量仅取决于烷烃/O2比率。孤立和聚合物种都是活性的，但在稳态烷烃氧化期间，聚合表面VO4物种比孤立物种更广泛地还原。丙烯形成的选择性受表面还原的影响：表面还原程度越高，选择性越高。使用N2O代替O2会导致更还原、更具选择性的表面的发展。表面V5+物种的还原程度也取决于特定的氧化物载体，反应性遵循相同的排名。载体在钒氧化物在烷烃氧化脱氢中的反应性中的作用已被广泛研究。由负载在二氧化硅上的钒氧化物制成的催化剂比那些使用氧化铝载体的催化剂更具选择性，后者比那些使用二氧化钛的催化剂更具选择性，主要是由于在低钒负载下平行丙烷燃烧的程度较低。活性VOx域的还原和催化性质可以由二元分散结构的形成显著影响。添加剂，如P、K、Ca、Ni、Cr、Nb、Mg、Au、Zn和Mo，修改了负载的钒氧化物的酸碱和氧化还原性质，影响了氧化脱氢中的催化性能。由于添加剂离子的电负性增加，酸位浓度的增加导致总活性的增加。碱金属和碱土金属掺杂剂的添加降低了活性，增加了丙烷氧化脱氢中对丙烯的选择性。丙烯在丙烷氧化脱氢中选择性的增加顺序遵循基本性和MO键能的增加顺序。设计高效烷烃氧化脱氢催化剂的关键因素是活性位点的隔离。将活性金属物种，如钒，同形地取代到微孔和介孔材料中是为这种反应设计新催化剂的一个有吸引力的策略。然而，如果掺入高钒含量，这些系统并不总是保持结构，而且在反应过程中，掺入的钒物种有时可以很容易地从结构中撤出。在VCoAPO-18的情况下，酸位（与Co2+阳离子的存在有关）和氧化还原位（与V5+/4+和Co3+/2+的存在有关）的存在似乎是实现高选择性到乙烯在乙烷氧化脱氢期间的一个重要因素。在丙烷氧化脱氢中表现最好的催化剂之一是VOx-SBA-15系统，通过酒精浸渍方法制备，其中V物种的引入到SBA-15的内壁上提供了一个具有大量可及的、孤立的和结构上明确定义的活性位点的系统。基于负载的钼氧化物的催化剂通常比基于钒的催化剂活性低，无论使用什么载体。每钼原子的丙烷氧化脱氢速率随着Mo表面密度的增加而增加，并在样品具有4.5 Mo/nm2时达到最大值，这反映了表面Mo物种反应性的增加。MoOx域的大小也影响Mo O的强度；更强的Mo O键显示出较低的氧化脱氢活性。碱金属（Cs、K、Li）的存在影响MoOx域的结构，并影响其电子和催化性质。丙烷氧化脱氢周转率随着掺杂剂/Mo原子比和碱土金属氧化物的基本性增加而单调下降。这些基本氧化物通过加强MoO键抑制MoOx的初始还原；结果，涉及Mo中心局部还原的速率决定性CH键活化步骤进行得更慢。二次丙烯燃烧的更强抑制反映了当用基本掺杂剂修饰时Mo位点的较弱Lewis酸性；这解释了对丙烯的更高选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
