<quotes>
[DFT study of CH4 activation by d0 Cl2LnZ (Z  H, CH3) complexes Laurent Maron,* Lionel Perrin and Odile Eisenstein* Laboratoire de Structure et Dynamique des Systèmes Molculaires et Solides (UMR 5636), Université Montpellier 2, 34095 Montpellier cedex 05, France]

[Introduction]
The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 (Cp* = C5Me5) activates CH4 (eqn. (1)) 1 has been a landmark in the search for new catalysts able to activate inert bonds especially those in alkanes.213

[Theoretical calculations have been used to understand the activation of inert bonds with considerable success.19,20 In most studies, CH activation has been initiated by an oxidative cleavage of the CH bond; theoretical studies of metathesis reactions have also been reviewed.21 EHT studies of the acti- vation of HH and CH bonds by d0 complexes suggest that the activation is feasible.]

[Results and discussion]
Cl as a model for Cp All lanthanide hydride complexes are dimeric or oligomeric.38 This aspect has not been included since the monomeric species are the reactive species. The lanthanide complexes in this work have an empty valence d shell. Our own calculations have shown that the coordination at the lanthanide center is essentially identical for Cl2LnH and Cp2LnH.39 The LnH bond is slightly longer than Cp (average 0.03 Å), in agreement with the higher electron donating power of Cp. The only strong discrepancy appears for a cationic cerium complex. 

[A key point for our study is also a proper representation of the energy of reaction. The reaction shown in eqn. (2) produces a metal hydride from methyl complexes. We have thus calcu- lated the energy of reaction for eqn. (2) for the entire lanthanide series with Cp and Cl ligands (Table 1).]

[Activation of CH4 by Cl2LnH For the sake of simplicity the reactions which are discussed correspond to the reaction of CH4 with a lanthanide complex (the reverse of eqn. (2), eqn. (2), and eqn. (3)). In these two reactions, CH4 reacts with the lanthanide hydride, with a different chemio-selectivity.]

[Conclusion]
Calculations show the reactions described in eqn. (1) and (2) to be kinetically accessible. While overall the reaction is a σ- bond metathesis with a 4-c4-el transition state, the study with CH3 brings new information that was not apparent in the case of the H exchange process (eqn. (4)). The reactions are in fact best viewed as a transfer of a proton between two anionic groups in the proximity of a lanthanide center. It is remarkable that the lanthanide is able to carry out reactions that are not seen with Grignard reagents or alkyllithiums in which an anionic alkyl group is in the vicinity of a cationic metal center.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the activation of C-H bonds by lanthanide complexes, focusing on the reactions of CH4 with Cl2LnZ complexes, where Z represents either hydrogen (H) or methyl (CH3). The study uses density functional theory (DFT) calculations to analyze the energetics and mechanisms of these reactions, providing insights into the activation of C-H bonds through a σ-bond metathesis process. The document highlights the differences in activation energies and the role of the lanthanide element in facilitating the reactions, comparing them with the hydrogen exchange process. The key findings include the identification of a 4-center transition state in the activation process, and the ability of lanthanide complexes to perform reactions that are not typically observed with Grignard reagents or alkyl lithium compounds due to the stabilization of anionic alkyl groups by the lanthanide center. The study emphasizes the importance of understanding the role of the lanthanide element and the coordination environment in determining the reactivity and selectivity of these complexes in C-H bond activation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
该文档讨论了镧系化合物激活C-H键的过程，重点是通过Cl2LnZ复合物（Z代表氢或甲基）与CH4反应。研究使用密度泛函理论（DFT）计算来分析这些反应的热力学和机制，提供了理解C-H键激活过程中的关键信息，特别关注σ键的迁移过程。文档强调了镧系元素在促进这些反应中的作用，并与Grignard试剂或烷基锂化合物进行比较。主要发现包括激活过程中的4中心过渡态的识别，以及镧系复合物在不典型情况下执行Grignard试剂或烷基锂化合物无法完成的反应的能力，原因是在镧系中心稳定了烷基组中的负离子。研究强调了理解镧系元素及其配位环境在决定这些复合物在C-H键激活反应中的反应性和选择性方面的重要性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
