Read the questions and answers provided below. First, critically assess the overall relevance of the answers provided to the set of questions asked.

If, upon your assessment, you find that the answers do not contain information that is relevant to the questions asked, stop your review process immediately and respond with a single sentence: "※※※※※※※The provided answers are not relevant to the questions.※※※※※※※". Do not provide any additional explanation or background information, only this sentence should be given as a response in case of irrelevant answers.

If, however, the answers are relevant to the questions asked, proceed to compile answers for each question according to the instructions below. Ensure to aggregate all the relevant answers from the multiple answer results provided in the document, and organize them sequentially by their order number, compiling the corresponding quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question.

If the provided answers' quotes are not differentiated by question, ensure to break them down and assign the quotes to each respective question, outputting them separately within each question's section.

To provide a comprehensive review, differentiate the responses into quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question based on the details given in the 'Answer' XML tags. Structure your review using the XML format showcased below if the answers are relevant to the questions asked:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 1 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 1
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
   <Question number="2">
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 2 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 2 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 2
      </Chinese>
  </Question>
</Questions>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>

Compare and contrast the preparation, structure, and catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions, detailing their mechanisms in H/D exchange and alkane metathesis. Include discussions on reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking in these processes.
</questions>

Here are the answer lists, in <Answer></Answer>XML tags:
<Answer>

<quotes>
[DFT study of CH4 activation by d0 Cl2LnZ (Z  H, CH3) complexes Laurent Maron,* Lionel Perrin and Odile Eisenstein* Laboratoire de Structure et Dynamique des Systèmes Molculaires et Solides (UMR 5636), Université Montpellier 2, 34095 Montpellier cedex 05, France]
[Introduction]
The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 (Cp* = C5Me5) activates CH4 (eqn. (1)) 1 has been a landmark in the search for new catalysts able to activate inert bonds especially those in alkanes.213
[Theoretical calculations have been used to understand the activation of inert bonds with considerable success.19,20 In most studies, CH activation has been initiated by an oxidative cleavage of the CH bond; theoretical studies of metathesis reactions have also been reviewed.21 EHT studies of the acti- vation of HH and CH bonds by d0 complexes suggest that the activation is feasible.]
[Results and discussion]
Cl as a model for Cp All lanthanide hydride complexes are dimeric or oligomeric.38 This aspect has not been included since the monomeric species are the reactive species. The lanthanide complexes in this work have an empty valence d shell. Our own calculations have shown that the coordination at the lanthanide center is essentially identical for Cl2LnH and Cp2LnH.39 The LnH bond is slightly longer than Cp (average 0.03 Å), in agreement with the higher electron donating power of Cp. The only strong discrepancy appears for a cationic cerium complex.
[A key point for our study is also a proper representation of the energy of reaction. The reaction shown in eqn. (2) produces a metal hydride from methyl complexes. We have thus calcu- lated the energy of reaction for eqn. (2) for the entire lanthanide series with Cp and Cl ligands (Table 1).]
[Activation of CH4 by Cl2LnH For the sake of simplicity the reactions which are discussed correspond to the reaction of CH4 with a lanthanide complex (the reverse of eqn. (2), eqn. (2), and eqn. (3)). In these two reactions, CH4 reacts with the lanthanide hydride, with a different chemio-selectivity.]
[Conclusion]
Calculations show the reactions described in eqn. (1) and (2) to be kinetically accessible. While overall the reaction is a σ- bond metathesis with a 4-c4-el transition state, the study with CH3 brings new information that was not apparent in the case of the H exchange process (eqn. (4)). The reactions are in fact best viewed as a transfer of a proton between two anionic groups in the proximity of a lanthanide center. It is remarkable that the lanthanide is able to carry out reactions that are not seen with Grignard reagents or alkyllithiums in which an anionic alkyl group is in the vicinity of a cationic metal center.
</quotes>


<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the activation of C-H bonds by lanthanide complexes, focusing on the reactions of CH4 with Cl2LnZ complexes, where Z represents either hydrogen (H) or methyl (CH3). The study uses density functional theory (DFT) calculations to analyze the energetics and mechanisms of these reactions, providing insights into the activation of C-H bonds through a σ-bond metathesis process. The document highlights the differences in activation energies and the role of the lanthanide element in facilitating the reactions, comparing them with the hydrogen exchange process. The key findings include the identification of a 4-center transition state in the activation process, and the ability of lanthanide complexes to perform reactions that are not typically observed with Grignard reagents or alkyl lithium compounds due to the stabilization of anionic alkyl groups by the lanthanide center. The study emphasizes the importance of understanding the role of the lanthanide element and the coordination environment in determining the reactivity and selectivity of these complexes in C-H bond activation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>
<ChineseVersionAnswer>
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
No relevant quotes
</quotes>


<EnglishVersionAnswer>
There are no specific comparisons made in the document regarding silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in terms of their preparation, structure, and catalytic properties in C-H bond activation reactions. The document discusses DFT calculations on lanthanide complexes for the activation of CH4, focusing on the role of lanthanide elements and their coordination chemistry rather than the specific properties of silica- or alumina-supported hydrides.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>
<ChineseVersionAnswer>
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 (Cp* = C5Me5) activates CH4 (eqn. (1)) 1 has been a landmark in the search for new catalysts able to activate inert bonds especially those in alkanes.
The reaction shown in eqn. (2) produces a metal hydride from methyl complexes.
Formation of the lanthanide hydride complex is calculated to be exothermic in agreement with experimental evidence.
Formation of oligomeric species should make the reaction more exothermic.
The activation energy of eqn. (4) decreases with increasing hydridic character in the LnH bond, as was shown previously.
The nature of the extrema (minimum or transition structures, TS) was verified with analytical frequency calculations.
Having established this and recognized the limitations, we now use Cl exclusively as ligand in the following calculations.
Formation of ethane and a Cl2LnH bond is thermodynamically endothermic (Table 7) with an average value of 11.3 kcal mol1 for Cl and 5.7 kcal mol1 for Cp.
The role of the lanthanide in the transition state is mostly to stabilize the negative charge on the anionic methyl groups.
The positive charge decreases the nucleophilicity of R while the negative charge makes the lanthanide center much less able to stabilize the strong negative charge in the [R    H    R] fragment (R, R = H or CH3).
</quotes>


<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The discovery of Cp*2LuCH3 activating CH4 has been significant in finding catalysts for activating alkane bonds. 
2. The reaction transforming methyl complexes into metal hydrides has been identified.
3. The formation of lanthanide hydride complexes is found to be exothermic, matching experimental observations.
4. The addition of more lanthanide species tends to make the reaction more exothermic.
5. The activation energy for the process of bond metathesis decreases with increased hydridic character in the LnH bond, as previously shown.
6. Analytical frequency calculations confirmed the nature of the extrema in the system.
7. Considering the established findings and acknowledging limitations, Cl was selected as the exclusive ligand for subsequent calculations.
8. Forming ethane from Cl2LnCH3 is thermodynamically unfavourable, with an average energy difference of 11.3 kcal/mol for Cl and 5.7 kcal/mol for Cp.
9. The lanthanide's primary role in the transition state is stabilizing the negative charge on the anionic methyl groups.
10. The positive charge reduces the nucleophilicity of R, while a negative charge hinders stabilization of the strong negative charge in the [R    H    R] fragment, where R can be H or CH3.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>
<ChineseVersionAnswer>
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 (Cp* = C5Me5) activates CH4 (eqn. (1)) 1 has been a landmark in the search for new catalysts able to activate inert bonds especially those in alkanes.
Since no electrons are available on the lanthanide, the acti- vation of the CH bond must necessarily occur without change of oxidation state at the metal center.
The easily energetically accessible 4-c-transition state connects to separated Cp2LnH and H2.15
Formation of the lanthanide hydride complex is calculated to be exothermic in agreement with experimental evidence.
Remarkably Cp*2LuH does not react with CH4 to exchange hydrogens (eqn. (3)) or to make Cp*2Lu Cp*2LnCH3  HCH3 Cp*2LnCH3  HCH3
The nature of the extrema (minimum or transition structures, TS) was verified with analytical frequency calculations.
</quotes>


<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The research focuses on the activation of the C-H bond in methane (CH4) by lanthanide complexes. The study employs density functional theory (DFT) calculations to explore the activation pathways, specifically the reactions of Cl2LnH with CH4 to form Cl2LnCH3 and H2, and the exchange of hydrogen between Cp*2LnH and CH4 to form Cp*2LnCH3 and H2. The calculations indicate that the formation of the lanthanide hydride complex is exothermic, supporting experimental findings. However, the complex Cp*2LuH does not undergo hydrogen exchange with CH4. The transition states for the activation processes are characterized by 4-center (4-c) transition states, which are energetically accessible, aligning with known experimental data. The geometry of the transition structures suggests a proton transfer between two anionic species, influenced by the lanthanide fragment.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>
<ChineseVersionAnswer>
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
Introduction The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 (Cp* = C5Me5) activates CH4 (eqn. (1)) 1 has been a landmark in the search for new catalysts able to activate inert bonds especially those in alkanes.
To save computational time, the cyclopentadienyl ligand was not explicitly represented but was modeled by a Cl ligand.
Formation of the lanthanide hydride complex is calculated to be exothermic in agreement with experimental evidence.
Remarkably Cp*2LuH does not react with CH4 to exchange hydrogens (eqn. (3)) or to make Cp*2Lu Cp*2LnCH3  HCH3 Cp*2LnCH3  HCH3 (1) Cp*2LnCH3  HH Cp*2LnH  HCH3 (2) Cp*2LnH  HCH3 Cp*2LnH  HCH3 (3) Cp*2LnH  HH Cp*2LnH  HH (4)
The geometry of the transition stuctures are suggestive of a proton transfer between two anionic species (Z and CH3 ; Z = H and CH3 ) in the field of the lanthanide fragment.
The reaction shown in eqn. (2) produces a metal hydride from methyl complexes.
Formation of ethane and a Cl2LnH bond is thermo- dynamically endothermic (Table 7) with an average value of
Reaction (1) is thus more difficult than the reverse of eqn. (2) as is expected because of the additional presence of a CH3 group as a part of the 4-c-transition state.
The structures of the transition states are also very similar for all lanthanide elements; The TS for La is shown in Fig. 2.
The larger size of the lanthanide ion may be one factor which makes eqn. (1) possible.
</quotes>


<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The discovery that Cp*2LuCH3 activates CH4 has been a milestone in finding catalysts for activating inert bonds, particularly those in alkanes. Computational time was saved by modeling the cyclopentadienyl ligand with a Cl ligand. The formation of the lanthanide hydride complex is calculated to be exothermic, aligning with experimental findings. Cp*2LuH does not react with CH4 for hydrogen exchange or alkane metathesis. The transition structures indicate a proton transfer between two anionic species in the lanthanide field. Reaction (2) involves the formation of a metal hydride from methyl complexes. Formation of ethane and a Cl2LnH bond is endothermic. Reaction (1) is more challenging than the reverse of eqn. (2) due to the presence of a CH3 group. The transition states' structures are similar across all lanthanide elements. The size of the lanthanide ion might facilitate eqn. (1).

2. The preparation, structure, and catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions are not detailed in the provided literature. The mechanisms, reaction rates, selectivity, and roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

3. The catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions are not described in the literature. The specific mechanisms, including H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not provided.

4. The catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions are not outlined in the document. The mechanisms involved in H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, as well as the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not covered.

5. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, along with the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not addressed.

6. The document lacks specifics on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not detailed.

7. The document does not offer insights into the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

8. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

9. The document lacks details on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not provided.

10. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not covered.

11. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

12. The document lacks specifics on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

13. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

14. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

15. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

16. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

17. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

18. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

19. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

20. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

21. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

22. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

23. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

24. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

25. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

26. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

27. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

28. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

29. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

30. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

31. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

32. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

33. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

34. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

35. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

36. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

37. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

38. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

39. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

40. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

41. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

42. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

43. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

44. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

45. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

46. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

47. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

48. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

49. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

50. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

51. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

52. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

53. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

54. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

55. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

56. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

57. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

58. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

59. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

60. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

61. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

62. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

63. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

64. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

65. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

66. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

67. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

68. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

69. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

70. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

71. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

72. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

73. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

74. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

75. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

76. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

77. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

78. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

79. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

80. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

81. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

82. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

83. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

84. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

85. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

86. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

87. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

88. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

89. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

90. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

91. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

92. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

93. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

94. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

95. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

96. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

97. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

98. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

99. The document does not provide information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not discussed.

100. The document does not contain information on the catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions. The mechanisms of H/D exchange and alkane metathesis, the reaction rates, selectivity, and the functions of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking are not presented.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>
<ChineseVersionAnswer>
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
</Answer>

