<quotes>
[1] "Methanol adsorbs only in molecular form on non-reduced surfaces, consequently no formaldehyde production takes place."
[2] "On reduced surfaces, methanol forms methoxy groups, which react to produce formaldehyde in the temperature range from 400 K to 550 K."
[3] "Other reaction products were not observed."
[4] "Methoxy groups can be stabilised at room temperature only when the surface is free of hydroxyl groups."
[5] "Hydroxyl groups can also react with other hydroxyl groups to form water, which probably desorbs in the same temperature regime."
[6] "If large amounts of methanol are dosed at room temperature, water formation removes all hydroxyl groups from the surface, which finally stabilises a layer of methoxy."
[7] "STM images show that the density of surface defects decreases due to methoxy formation, except for pair defects perpendicular to the vanadyl double rows whose density increases upon methanol dosage."
[8] "Numerical simulations were performed using a kinetic model that includes both the reaction of methoxy and hydroxyl groups to form methanol and the simultaneous combination of OH groups to form water."
[9] "DFT essentially supports the experimental findings."
[10] "Molecular methanol is only weakly bound to a non-defective vanadyl-terminated V2O5(001) surface (EB = 0.16 eV)."
[11] "The bond to a vanadyl oxygen vacancy is stronger (0.64 eV)."
[12] "Dissociation into surface-bound methoxy and hydrogen is only slightly preferred (0.67 eV, with the hydrogen atom bound to a bridging oxygen atom)."
[13] "Molecular water on a defect has the same binding energy as molecular methanol (0.64) but dissociated water is less strongly bound (0.44 eV)."
[14] "Molecular adsorption on a double defect of type B geometry gives a slightly stronger bond for molecular water (0.74 eV) whereas the energy of the dissociated state is reduced (0.38 eV)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The partial oxidation of methanol on V2O5(001) films supported on Au(111) was investigated. On non-reduced surfaces, methanol adsorbs only in molecular form, consequently no formaldehyde production takes place. On reduced surfaces, methanol forms methoxy groups, which react to produce formaldehyde in the temperature range from 400 K to 550 K. Other reaction products were not observed. Methoxy groups can be stabilized at room temperature only when the surface is free of hydroxyl groups since otherwise methoxy and hydroxyl groups may react to form methanol, which desorbs between 230 and 300 K. Hydroxyl groups can also react with other hydroxyl groups to form water, which probably desorbs in the same temperature regime. If large amounts of methanol are dosed at room temperature, water formation removes all hydroxyl groups from the surface, which finally stabilizes a layer of methoxy. STM images show that the density of surface defects decreases due to methoxy formation, except for pair defects perpendicular to the vanadyl double rows whose density increases upon methanol dosage. Numerical simulations were performed using a kinetic model that includes both the reaction of methoxy and hydroxyl groups to form methanol and the simultaneous combination of OH groups to form water. DFT essentially supports the experimental findings. Molecular methanol is only weakly bound to a non-defective vanadyl-terminated V2O5(001) surface. The bond to a vanadyl oxygen vacancy is stronger. Dissociation into surface-bound methoxy and hydrogen is only slightly preferred. Molecular water on a defect has the same binding energy as molecular methanol but dissociated water is less strongly bound. Molecular adsorption on a double defect of type B geometry gives a slightly stronger bond for molecular water whereas the energy of the dissociated state is reduced.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在V2O5(001)薄膜上进行了甲醇氧化的研究。在非还原表面上，甲醇仅以分子形式吸附，因此不发生甲醛生成。在还原表面上，甲醇形成甲氧基团，这些团在400 K到550 K的温度范围内反应产生甲醛。其他产物未被观察到。只有当表面不含羟基团时，甲氧基团才能在室温下稳定，否则甲氧基和羟基会反应形成甲醇，该过程在230 K到300 K的温度范围内发生脱附。羟基团也可以与其他羟基反应形成水，这可能在相同的温度范围内发生脱附。如果大量甲醇在室温下注入，水形成会从表面去除所有羟基团，最终稳定一层甲氧基。STM图像显示，由于甲氧基的形成，表面缺陷的密度降低，除了垂直于范德华双行的对缺陷密度增加的双行缺陷。数值模拟使用了一个包括甲氧基和羟基反应形成甲醛以及羟基组合形成水的动态模型。第一性原理计算基本上支持实验结果。分子甲醇仅与非缺陷的V2O5(001)表面弱键合。与一个范德华氧空位的键合更强。分子分解为表面键合的甲氧基和氢原子只有轻微的偏好（0.67 eV，其中氢原子键合到桥接氧原子）。缺陷上的分子水的结合能与分子甲醇相同，但分解的水的结合能较弱（0.44 eV）。分子吸附在类型B双缺陷几何形状上给分子水一个稍强的结合能，而分解状态的能量降低。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
