I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The authors further noted a sigmoidal relation between the particle size and synthesis temperature for static conditions, a strange observation, since Arrhenius type behavior is to be expected for crystal growth rate. A third interesting series unexpectedly showed that diluting the synthesis mixtures led to increased particle sizes. Normally, the sizes are expected to be smaller because the growth rate depends on the concentration of reagents. A possible explanation could be a decreased nucleation rate due to the decreased alkalinity of the medium (giving less crystals growing larger). A final trend showed smaller particles when increasing the ADAM content. By combining parameter insights, the authors were able to prepare SSZ-13 particles sizing around 200300 nm (DLS). The difference with small-crystal SSZ-62 zeolites is thus the more siliceous nature. (206) Rimer and co-workers reported an insightful study where remarkable control of the particle sizes was established (ranging from 0.1 to 20 μm) using zeolite growth-modifiers, and these results provided insights into the crystallization pathways. (207) The systems of study were gels made from fumed silica and aluminum hydroxide with Si/Al at 19, and Na/Si, ADAM/Si, and H2O/Si ratios at 0.2, 0.1, and 44, respectively. This control (6 days at 180 C) yields particles of around 2 μm (in line with other reports discussed above), although a small fraction of 200 nm large cubic particles was always encountered. In a temporal analysis of their tumbling synthesis, they tracked the amorphous to crystalline transformation and noted a long induction period (where no crystals appear) of 40 h (compare to black curve in Figure 12) followed by a fast complete crystallization in under 10 h. The induction period showed amorphous wormlike particles. The latter do not seem to decrease in size, indicating their consumption occurs by direct attachment rather than dissolution to soluble precursor species, and the reaction of those species with growing crystals. The latter is the classical mechanism for crystal growth, in layers, fitting to crystal habit and unit cell dimensions. Evidence for the attachment of larger amorphous precursors to growing crystals was mainly found from atomic force and electron microscopy, where features resembling the former amorphous particles were seen. On top, cryo-TEM showed the presence of tiny (<10 nm) particles near the growing crystals that were not found in solution. These surface-attached mini particles are hypothesized to be an intermediate stage during the structural rearrangement of the attached amorphous particles. Classical growth was also observed in AFM, but to a lesser extent and in a later stage, when the attachable particles become depleted. Based on these insights, the addition of several growth modifiers was tested. Remarkably, the addition of 1.6 wt % of polyethylenimine (PEIM, Figure 13) resulted in 130 nm large zeolite particles. Likely the neutral polymer prevents the attachment of the amorphous particles and aggregation. Similar effects were found for hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB). In reverse, adding cationic poly(diallyldimethylammonium chloride) or PDDAC (Figure 13) seemed to decrease nucleation time and enhance crystal growth, leading to crystals of 20 μm in size (with some mesopores), likely by speeding up attachment. Combining the polymers gave access to crystal size control (overview, Figure 13).Figure 13 Figure 13. Size-tailored SSZ-13 zeolites by using polymer additives. Figure based on photographs by Kumar et al. in ref (207). The average reported crystal size is given.The motivation to access smaller crystal sizes from synthesis derives from the higher external surface area such particles have and the shortening of the diffusion paths for reagent and product molecules. This sometimes ameliorates the performance of a zeolite in catalytic applications by overcoming diffusional limitations, coke formation, or low selectivities. The Corma and Yu groups further explored the merits of CTAB (growth modifier) addition, in a different way: (208) after a classic SSZ-13 synthesis mixture (Si/Al 20, Na/Si 0.2, ADAM/Si 0.2; H2O/Si 44) had been in the oven at 160 C for 1 day, CTAB was added, at a CTAB/Si ratio of 0.12. After 9 more days, this resulted in aggregated SSZ-13, with a bulk Si/Al ratio of 17, sizing in the 50200 nm range. This material displayed interparticle mesoporosity in N2-adsorption in addition to its 0.2 cm3/g of microporosity. Leaving the classic gel uninterrupted for 6 days instead, gave classic SSZ-13 with Si/Al = 15 and particles sizing 1.52.5 μm, with 0.25 cm3/g of microporosity. More defect sites and a lower framework incorporation of Al were however noted for the nano-SSZ-13. Lastly, the Sano group also reported control over the particle sizes in their interzeolite conversions (section 2.3.3.4).In analogy to Eilertsens 15-133 series, Hensen and co-workers also added NaF in hydroxide media, but in a 4:3:2 OSDA:Na:F molar ratio, for a Si/Al 20 synthesis (and 0.2 ADAM/Si). (209) Remarkably, a bimodal distribution in the micropore range was observed for the material, as next to the cage-average micropore calculated at 0.54 nm, a micropore in the range of 4.67 Å seemed present. Additional evidence was found in the occurrence of tiophene diffusion in the bimodal samples, as well as by a much faster uptake of n-butanol and isobutanol in sorption experiments. It was hypothesized that F-addition favors the particle attachment mechanism of nonclassical growth, as described above by Rimer and co-workers, (207) and results in additional micropores at the boundaries of the particles attached to the growing zeolites.Another technical alteration used to obtain SSZ-13 consists of a fast continuous-flow synthesis, as presented by Okubo and co-workers. (210) The method consists of adding seeds, hence avoiding the slow nucleation phase, which then grow without thermal lag while quickly moving in a tubular reactor heated at 210 C (in e.g., a 10 min synthesis). The crystal growth rate was enhanced by selecting the right Al-source, which proved to be Al(OH)3. This solid has a low solubility and was hypothesized to hamper the formation of an amorphous aluminosilicate with the colloidal silica. The amorphous aluminosilicate phase is thought to decrease crystal growth rates. In such systems, the clogging of the tubular reactor is to be overcome.
2.3.3.3. Other OSDAs for CHA and Mesoporous Recipes
Since the synthesis of ADAM is expensive, alternative OSDAs have been highly sought after. Cao et al. reported the use of N,N,N-dimethylethylcyclohexylammonium hydroxide as OSDA for high silica CHA (Figure 14). (211) Using very low water content (H2O/Si = 6.4) and keeping the ratios of Na+ and OSDA/Si at 0.1 and 0.2, this method yields CHA-zeolites (in competition with MTW) at 150 C with Si/Al ratios around 54. Wang et al. further explored this recipe in a solvent-free approach using the bromide form of this OSDA (Figure 14). (212) After grinding the solid precursors (sodium metasilicate, aluminum sulphate, solid silica gel, OSDA), the mixture was reacted at 180 C. The ratios of Na+ and OSDA to Si were 0.4 and 0.1 here, and the obtained CHA-zeolites, in high yield, had limited Si/Al ratios, ranging from 5 to 10. (212) Figure 14 Figure 14. Alternative OSDAs for CHA. BTMA = N,N,N-trimethylbenzylammonium, TEPA = tetraethylenepentamine.
Ren et al. reported the use of a metal complex for directing CHA-synthesis. (213) They noted that a Cu2+-amine complex (TEPA, Figure 14) had similar size properties as the CHA-cage. Using dilute gels (H2O/Si = 200) from silica sol and sodium aluminate, with both Na/Si and Cu-TEPA/Si ratios around 0.1, Cu-CHA-zeolites were obtained at 140 C, with Si/Al ratios in the range of 4 to 7.5. After calcination, the Cu-containing material could directly be used for SCR of NOx with NH3. Corma and co-workers later reported a one-pot recipe for Cu-SSZ-13 based on using both Cu-TEPA and ADAM, in both hydroxide and fluoride media. (214) Using mixtures allows one to obtain higher Si/Al ratios in the solids and a better control of the Cu loadings.
Another synthesis using the addition of a second organic to ADAM was reported by Zones, with N,N,N-trimethylbenzylammonium (BTMA, Figure 14). He showed that combinations of 1:1 up to 1:7 (ADAM:BTMA) could direct to the SSZ-13 structure from fumed silica and Al2O3, as well as combinations of ADAM and N,N,N-triethylbenzylammonium (up to 1:3). No characterization of the products was given. (215) Sano and co-workers later succeeded in making CHA-zeolites by only using BTMA hydroxide by making use of the IZC method (Table 2, method D). (216) IZC has been thoroughly investigated for CHA, in both the presence and absence of organic cations or seeds (see section 2.3.3.4).
Rather unexpected, Xu et al. were able to use choline chloride (Figure 14) in gels from sodium aluminate and colloidal silica and obtain CHA-zeolites. (217) These gels had 0.2 choline/Si ratios and importantly, unknown amounts of seeds of SSZ-13, made with ADAM. The claimed materials had limited Si/Al ratios between 3.3 and 8.7. The authors assumed that 2 choline (chloride) units clustered in the large CHA cage, although the thermogravimetric analysis showed a weight loss of only 9.6% linked to the organic (choline = 104 g·mol1). In classic SSZ-13 synthesis using ADAM, the weight loss equals around 20%, due to one organic cation, weighing 194 g·mol1, decomposing per cage.
Hensen and co-workers reported on the direct synthesis of mesoporous SSZ-13 by using, in addition to ADAM, a mesoporogen with two cationic heads (Figure 14). (218,219) The same molecule was also used by Ryoo et al. for creating nanosheet MFI. (220) This meso-SSZ-13, with Si/Al = 17, had 0.21 cm3/g of mesoporosity on top of a normal amount of microporosity. A combination of this strategy with the F-assisted bimodal microporous SSZ-13 synthesis (above) was recently demonstrated, resulting in trimodal hierarchical SSZ-13. (221) Tatsumi and co-workers reported the synthesis of CHA zeolites without organic nor starting zeolite sources, but with the addition of large amounts (20 wt %) of classically prepared (using ADAM) seeds. In this manner, they were able to synthesize CHA from amorphous gels (fumed silica, sodium aluminate, or Al-isopropoxide) using Na+ with K+ or Cs+ alkali. The K+ materials had Si/Al ratios below 4 (a bit higher than the classic OSDA-free recipe from FAU zeolite (199)) but interestingly, with Cs, a ratio of 5.2 could be attained. A time series at 170 C indicated at least partial dissolution of the seeds, as a fully amorphous diffractogram appeared after 1 h. The synthesis was complete in 24 h, and longer times led to other phases appearing. (193)
2.3.3.4. Interzeolite Conversions (IZC)
The IZC of FAU to CHA was already schematized in Figure 4. Table 5 lists most of the IZC routes that have led to CHA zeolites. As mentioned, the standard recipe for OSDA-free, high-alumina CHA is based on the transformation of a FAU-zeolite at 95 C with Si/Al = 2.6 (Table 5, entry 1). (199) The FAU in this procedure, as described by the Synthesis Commission (167) contained a little bit of Na+, but the main element needed for CHA is K+. Ji et al. recently confirmed this result, albeit with a more siliceous starting zeolite (Table 5, entry 2). (222) Both products were very similar. Van Tendeloo et al. reported a similar conversion from NH4+-FAU (entry 3). (223) Interestingly, these authors also exchanged the starting FAU with Na+, K, or H+ prior to the conversions in the KOH solution, and they noted similar CHA formation, albeit with a little variation in the Si/Al ratios (e.g., Table 5, entry 4). In the same report, Van Tendeloo demonstrated the synthesis of three other 8MR zeolites from the same NH4FAU: ABW, MER, and ANA. They did this by respectively using LiOH, RbOH, or CsOH, instead of KOH for CHA, all at mild conditions. (223) Table 5. Overview of CHA-Zeolite Syntheses by Interzeolite Conversiona synthesis mixtures composition relative to Si E starting zeoliteb Si/Al reag. M+(OH-) OSDA(OH) H2O T, t (C, h) Si/Al prod. ref 1 (Na,H)-FAU 2.6 0.84 (K+/Na+: 12)   43 95, 96 2.16 (167) 2 NH4-FAUs,ac 6.0 1.1 (K+)   44 100, 96 2.4 (222) 3 NH4-FAUd 2.7 1.37 (K+/Na+: 18)   58 95, 96 2.1 (223) 4 Na-FAU 2.7 1.67 (K+/Na+: 3.5)   58 95, 96 1.6 (223) 5 Na-GISe 3.0e 0.68 (Na+) 0.11 ADAM(I) 25 130, 144 7.5e (143) 6 H-FAUs,a 21 0.1 (NaCl) 0.2 BTMA 5 120, 504 16.9 (216) 7 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 2% 22 0.1 (NaCl) 0.2 BTMA 5 125, 168 18.2 (224) 8 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 2% 16 0.1 (Na+) 0.2 BTMA 5 125, 168 14.7 (224) 9 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 2% 81 0.1 (NaCl) 0.2 BTMA 5 125, 168 21.3 (224) 10 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 10% 97   0.3 BTMA 5 125, 168 18.6 (224) 11 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 2% 23 0.1 (Na+) 0.2 ADAM 5 125, 48 19 (225) 12 H-FAUs,a CHA-seeds 2% 114 0.1 (Na+) 0.2 ADAM 5 125, 48 67 (225) 13 H-FAUs,a 10.5 0.2 (Na+) 0.2 TEA 5 160, 72 8.5 (226) 14 H-LEV 9 3 (Na+)   80 125, 1.5 2.8 (227) aE = entry. M+(OH) refers to alkali added and can be more than one (added with ratio given). If another anion is used instead of OH, this is mentioned in brackets. The same is valid for the OSDA column. bMostly, if FAU is mentioned, this is either zeolite Y or a treated version of Y. s,a = steamed and acid washed, for leaching out aluminum. If this is in the case of FAU, these zeolites are better known as USY (ultrastable Y). cCBV 712 of Zeolyst. dCBV 300: contains some Na. eNot strictly an IZC, as sodium silicate is added, rendering the Si/Al synthesis ratio +/ 16. These conditions resemble a lot of those in Table 4 for AEI.
Groundbreaking work in the context of IZC with organics was published by Zones and Van Nordstrand in the late 1980s. Following the success of using ADAM for SSZ-13, they explored different zeolites as alumina source for making different (higher silica) zeolites with the addition of OSDA. (142144) The work began when they noticed the intermediate production of zeolite P (GIS) in the hydrothermal synthesis of SSZ-13. The ADAM organic seemed not to interfere with the first transformation of sodium silicate and Al2(SO4)3 into GIS, via aluminosilicate oligomerization and gel formation. Then, as witnessed by monitoring both the pH and the relative mass of solids formed in time (compared to reactions without organic, only forming GIS), the uptake of ADAM by the solid phase and its gradual transformation to SSZ-13 occurred. (143) The CHA-phase was also more siliceous than the GIS-phase, indicating that all alumina was already in the solid GIS-phase, while silica was added from solution. No Al3+ was thus detected in solution at any point. The authors then made Na-GIS (Si/Al = 3) and dried it prior to reacting it with added sodium silicate, NaOH, and ADAM. This successfully led to SSZ-13, and while the Si/Al ratio went up to 7.5, the weight of zeolite more than doubled (Table 5, entry 5). Zones later reported a study using the same ingredients, but zeolite FAU instead of GIS, again with sodium silicate. (144) A range of effects originating from modifications on the starting FAU was shown. They noted that the surface chemistry of FAU had a profound impact on its conversion. For instance, steamed FAU samples were much slower in reacting, but if the aluminum at the surface after steaming was acid-removed, they reacted much faster. Silylation also inhibited the reactivity of certain FAU zeolites. Importantly, in all these conversion, there is no new product formation without an increase in mass for the solid phase. Given the additional silica source, these first reports cannot be considered pure IZC, but they provided valuable insights into the use of different FAU zeolites and the dynamics of converting the zeolite in the high hydroxide crystallization field. Another important insight was that no amorphous phase was produced during the process, and SSZ-13 formed during the breakdown of the parent FAU.
The Sano group has reported excellent results using real IZC (without added silica) for non-8MR frameworks (such as BEA, RUT, ...; for an overview see ref (145)), but they also managed to demonstrate some for CHA. They were able to transform FAU zeolite into high-silica CHA-materials using BTMA (Figure 14) as the OSDA (Table 5, entry 6). (216) Typically, this IZC is conducted in low water conditions, similar to the IZC results reported for AEI (Table 4). The CHA-zeolite could only be made from FAU precursors with Si/Al ratios in the 2123 range, and, as expected, it could not form from amorphous (gel) precursors with this OSDA. This latter result is in line with data from the Zones patent that combined ADAM and BTMA to get SSZ-13 from fumed silica and Al2O3, while noticing that the presence of (at least one-seventh) ADAM was unconditional. (215) The solid yield of this IZC was not reported, and it could be a bottleneck, although, considering the Al-content in starting and product zeolite, a maximum yield of about 80% can be derived. This preliminary calculation assumes the full consumption of the AlO45 tetrahedra and, thus, no leftover dissolved aluminum in the synthesis mixture. The studies from Zones and Van Nordstrand suggest this to be correct. (143) The Sano group later added CHA-seeds to their IZC methods and widened their good results: the synthesis could be reduced to 7 days (Table 5, entry 7), and the synthesis reported a solid yield of 92%. (224) Using NaOH instead of NaCl with seeds allowed a wider set of starting FAU zeolites (Si/Al wise) to be used. However, the Si/Al ratio in the products varied only within a limited range, up to a maximum of 21.3 (Table 5, entries 89). Although Na+ was not essential, it required more organic and more seeds without its presence (viz. Table 5 entry 10). The unseeded IZC materials sized in the 1 μm range, while for the seeded materials, in the presence of Na+, crystallites were much smaller, around 100200 nm. Those prepared with more seeds and without Na+ were even smaller.
The Sano group also explored their IZC reactions using ADAM. Significant differences with the previous BTMA route were the shorter time needed for complete crystallization and the possibility of obtaining higher Si/Al ratios in the resulting materials (Table 5, entries 11 and 12, compared to 7 and 10). CHA crystal sizes were in the 100 nm range (compare for instance to the nanosized SSZ-13s described in section 2.3.3.2). Interestingly, the rates of crystallization were compared from use of classic amorphous gels and IZC, in both the absence and presence of seeds (Figure 15). Without seeds (left curves), IZC was remarkably faster than the more classic synthesis from amorphous precursors. However, one should note that the crystallization times for the amorphous gels are excessive here, even for a classic synthesis and much longer than those listed in Figure 12 (also from amorphous precursors). The reason for this could be the low organic content, low temperature, and unusually high concentration (lower water content) for these kinds of amorphous gels (ADAM:Si = 0.2, H2O/Si = 5). These features however do not diminish the remarkably fast performance of IZC under these conditions with less organic. With seeds, the differences are smaller, although IZC reaches full crystallinity at only 6 h, versus 24 h for the amorphous gel (Figure 15). The authors suggest that the enhanced crystallization rate of IZC derives from locally ordered aluminosilicate species (nanoparts) formed by the partial decomposition of the starting FAU zeolite (Figure 4). As mentioned earlier, both FAU and CHA are d6r-only members, so there definitely exists a structural similarity between the IZC starting and product zeolite in this case (same as AEI above). In a way, the often positive effect of adding seed crystals in more classic syntheses also partially relies on this phenomenon. How seeds interact with the zeolite precursor during IZC remains a good research question. A second question is the role of the starting zeolites Al-content, in all of the above, as this is often a decisive factor in IZC, whether or not a phase can form.
Figure 15 Figure 15. Crystallization curves for CHA-zeolites from Si/Al = 35 mixtures at 125 C, in the case of IZC (from FAU) and from an amorphous hydrogel (from fumed SiO2 and Al(OH)3). Figure adapted with permission from Takata et al. ref (225). Copyright 2016 Elsevier.
Recently, Corma and co-workers discovered that the common OSDA TEA, in its hydroxide form, could also lead to CHA-zeolites when starting from a FAU zeolite (Table 5, entry 13). These conditions closely resemble those reported by the same group for AEI-zeolite (Table 4, entry 12) and the product materials had similar Si/Al (8.5). The reflections of this CHA in the diffractogram had somewhat different intensities (relative to each other) and broader widths than those known for classic SSZ-13. The yield from this synthesis is high, micropore volumes were normal, and the zeolites sized 0.10.2 μm. Moreover, TEA is a commercial and cheap OSDA, available at the large scale, due to, among other applications, its use for zeolite BEA synthesis. Zeolite BEA was logically the main competing phase, but the combination of TEA and the zeolitic source of Si and Al, with its structural similarity to the product, favored CHA in a narrow range of conditions. (226) The findings of Martn et al. should be further investigated to see whether they can lead to CHA zeolites with larger Si/Al ratios (as, e.g., up to 20 was attained for IZC using BTMA).
Often, IZC series progress from more open structures with lower framework densities (say FAU) to more dense structures (CHA). The use of OSDA can of course reverse this trend and create more open structures, even in IZC. Large inorganic cations can effect such transformations as well, and the first IZC ever (Barrer) was that of dense ANA to more open KFI (see section 2.1). Sano and co-workers discovered a way to synthesize CHA from the more dense LEV structure without OSDA (Table 5, entry 14). (227) LEV, similar to CHA, is also an ABC-6 zeolite (section 2.3.8 vs Figure 10 for CHA). In the mixtures (rich in NaOH), the authors witnessed the transformation of LEV to amorphous to CHA to ANA. In analogous amorphous starting gels, such intermediate (and thus kinetically controlled) growth of a CHA phase was never found. The CHA zeolite produced, however, had a low pore volume and too much aluminum to be of practical use. Additionally, LEV-zeolites are not commercially accessible.Finally, Goel et al. also demonstrated IZC of FAU to CHA without OSDA, through the use of seeds and NaOH. (228) Tatsumi and co-workers have previously demonstrated seeding for CHA in amorphous gels. (193) The product CHA in the seeded-IZC report had amorphous phase cocrystallized next to it. This phase influences the Si/Al ratio of the measured bulk sample and likely explains the low micropore volume (<0.1 cm3/g).The above IZC syntheses for making CHA (specifically Table 5, entries 613) present significant results, especially if an alternative to the use of ADAM is desired. FAU (and USY) zeolites are among the cheapest available due to their large-scale use in catalytic cracking processes. Given a high-value application for the CHA-materials and considering that the aluminum content and pore volume are adequate for application (respectively 1520 and 0.29 cm3·g1), the IZC recipe using BTMA has the potential to be commercially feasible, next to the ADAM recipe. Moreover, a comparative study suggested that the acid-stability of the IZC BTMA materials was higher than that of the classic ADAM zeolites from amorphous gels with Si/Al ratios around 15. (229) The CHA-zeolites made with TEA seem promising as well, although the Si/Al product range is a bit limited.
2.3.3.5. Insights into the Al-Distribution in CHA Zeolites
The CHA topology is d6r-only, so the distribution of Al in d6r units (constructing the entire framework; or the distribution in 6MR even) is representative of the entire framework. Second, it is important to note that, as proposed by Barthomeuf, there is a maximum density of Al atoms in a zeolite beyond which the formation of AlOSiOAl (next nearest neighbor (NNR) aluminums) becomes a certainty. For CHA, based on the topological density, this limit is near a Si/Al ratio of 7. (230) When such NNR-pairs are found in one face of a flat 6MR, or two Al-atoms are across of each other in that ring (both shown in the inset of Figure 16, left), they are known to exchange divalent ions very well. (196) Bates et al. showed that the energy difference for divalent cation exchange (of relevance to redox catalysis, e.g., Cu2+ in SCR, see section 3.2) on two framework Al-atoms in a 6MR (e.g., Figure 28) was much more favorable than in the 4MR or 8MR of CHA. (231) Bates et al. then theoretically calculated the number of such 6MRs (with exactly two aluminums) occurring per framework aluminum, based on a random Al-distribution and Lwensteins rule in an ideal CHA framework, for a given Si/Al ratio (Figure 16, left). Their curve predicted a density of 22% of these 6MR Al-pairs for a Si/Al = 5 CHA-zeolite (normalized on total Al-content) or, translated, a fraction of 44% of the Al occurring in such pairs. By extension, this random distribution relation should be valid for all other d6r-only members, since the way these d6r-units connect in space should not matter for the statistical model. (231) Earlier, Akporiaye et al. attempted to model experimental 29Si NMR spectra of different CHA-zeolites (with maximum Si/Al at 7.6) by specific ordered Al distributions as well as by random distributions. They found the random distribution to fit best for their two highest Si/Al materials (5.27.6). Although this result does not prove randomness, the inadequate description by several ordered configurations is suggestive. (232) Figure 16 Figure 16. Control over Al-distribution in terms of pairs/isolation in CHA. Left: the theoretical abundance (in fraction of the Al-atoms) of the two types of Al-pairs (inset) in 6MRs in a random distribution, varying with the framework Si/Al ratio. Right: the fraction of Al in pairs measured by Co2+ titration for a set of Si/Al 15 materials made with different Na/ADAM ratios in the synthesis gels, at fixed total cationic charge [(Na++ ADAM)/Al = 7.5]. The random distribution value can be attained through synthesis (red square), as can the 100% isolated case (green square). Higher Na/ADAM ratios give MOR-zeolite competition. Adapted with permission from ref (233). Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society.
A groundbreaking insight in Al-distribution in CHA-zeolites was recently reported by Di Iorio and Gounder, who studied the distribution in terms of isolation or pairing in relation to synthesis methods. (233) They focused on the Al-pairs mentioned above (inset Figure 16, left), while using Al(OH)3 and colloidal silica in hydroxide media and developed an accurate method to quantitate these pairs (known to stabilize extra-framework divalent cations). (233) The method is based on taking twice the saturation capacity from the Co2+-ion exchange isotherm, with verification by diffuse reflectance UVvis spectroscopy, Cu2+-exchange, and selective titration of the remaining H+. The Co-exchange work of Ddeek and co-workers for other frameworks (MFI, BEA, ...) is instrumental in this context. (234236) Di Iorio et al. thus conducted a series of syntheses to study the influence of the organic ADAM vs inorganic Na+ cations. One of the striking conclusions was that when Si/Al = 15 materials were made in the absence of Na+ (and the specific inorganic sources) no pairs occurred (green square, Figure 16, right). This perfect isolation of each aluminum is likely related to the incorporation of one charged ADAM cation per cage. As each cage has 36 T atoms shared over 3 cages, or thus 12 full T atoms, a Si/Al ratio of 11 would then equal one aluminum incorporated (negative framework charge) per OSDA per cage. Thus, it would present the ideal case of charge neutrality in the absence of inorganic cations and fluoride anions. Although one ADAM per cage is often analyzed in SSZ-13 syntheses, framework anionic defects (e.g., deprotonated silanols) likely interfere with this ideal ratio, allowing less Al to be incorporated in hydroxide media or thus higher Si/Al ratios, when only ADAM is used. Di Iorio et al. obtained CHA (with Si/Al = 26) from a Si/Al = 30 synthesis, and even hydroxide materials in the Si/Al = 50 regions are feasible. Attempts to crystallize CHA from higher Si/Al synthesis mixtures in OH media, as mentioned above, do not succeed. In contrast to the isolated Al case when only ADAM was used (green square, Figure 16), the use of both Na+ and ADAM in a 1/1 ratio led to a number of Al-pairs (red square, Figure 16, right) in line with the statistically predicted number for random distribution (red dot, Figure 16, left). Intermediate values (between 01) of the Na+/ADAM ratio (or thus cationic charge density) confirmed this observation and offer one a limited control over the desired amount of pairing (up to the statistical random occurrence) for a given Si/Al ratio. The authors demonstrated this for Si/Al = 15 and 25 materials. At ratios higher than 1, the number of pairs again decreased. Explaining these results is difficult, although it was noted that above a certain ratio, competing zeolites occurred (dashed line in Figure 16). A likely explanation for the influence of the cationic charge density on the number of pairs (maximal when Na+/ADAM = 1) was given, based on the more favorable stabilization of an Al-(charge)-pair by both the quaternary ammonium head of the OSDA and a Na+ cation in close vicinity (of the same 6MR), compared to when they are further apart (not balancing a pair). The case where they are further apart would entail a larger disruption of the nonpolar contacts between the apolar adamantyl group of ADAM and the siliceous network, on the other side of the OSDA. This would be in line with the reported orientation of ADAM in CHA, i.e., along the c-axis or length of the cage. This result suggests that the polar head of ADAM points up to a 6MR, while an additional Na+ resides in the d6r that 6MR is part of. A recent update by Gounder and co-workers showed that the use of Al-isopropoxide in the synthesis was able to yield up to 44% of Al in pairs, for a Si/Al = 14 material (contrary to 20% in the theoretical curve, Figure 16, left), indicating that statistical pairing is exceeded. (237) The pairing series was also used in catalytic test reactions (section 3.6).
As reported above, Corma and co-workers used ADAM in combination with Cu-TEPA to obtain Cu-SSZ-13 in one pot. (214) Interestingly, they noted different deNOx activities for materials from the F and OH-preparation routes, in spite of similar heteroatom substitution, Cu loading, and particle sizes. This suggests a strong influence of the preparation on the materials. Perhaps, this is related to differences in the Al-pairing or siting, influencing the Cu-speciation. The Co-titration method could thus be of use here, in case Cu can be fully removed before Co-exchange.
2.3.3.6. CHA-Zeolite Conclusions
CHA is, arguably, the most interesting 8MR zeolite from a synthesis point of view, due to its industrial relevance, the vast body of literature, its structure with large cages, and its compositional flexibility (from highly aluminous to pure-silica). Some insights/observations are (1) CHA is a member of both the d6r-only and ABC-6 families. The only other two members of both structural families are AFX and SFW, and they present a series with expanding, structurally related cages and similar synthesis conditions.
(2) CHA can be made without organic, using K+/Na+ mixtures in very aluminous compositions or with the help of OSDAs, most commonly ADAM, in more siliceous to even pure-silica forms. Unlike for AEI, there is a great flexibility for different kinds of T atom sources in the ADAM-route.
(3) It is clear that the ADAM/CHA-cage pair has a highly favorable host/guest interaction. This is evidenced from molecular modeling, the large conditional flexibility (F, OH, IZC, ...) and the high structural specificity, certainly when compared to, e.g., tetra-alkylated ammonium or piperidinium-based OSDAs. Few other molecular sieves are stabilized well by ADAM, the large-pore silicate AFI being a known exception. (238) The competition with other phases in OH-media, for instance, only occurs in mixtures with Si/Al > 55. Strong-structure direction is, however, still not the same as true templating. (91,192) (4) Based on the charge balance and counting cages, the ideal Si/Al ratio of a defect-free SSZ-13 is 11, assuming one ADAM per cage and no sodium in the synthesis (cfr. AEI). The same calculation for AFX and SFW networks is more difficult due to the additional presence of other smaller cages (Figure 10).
(5) The demonstrated control over particle size in CHA syntheses is rather exceptional in the 8MR zeolite literature. The use of growth-modifiers and insights into the particle attachment mechanism should be further explored for different Si/Al ratios within CHA (e.g., lower ratios are used in SCR, higher in MTO, viz. sections 3.2 and 3.4) and for other frameworks. Lessons learned for CHA could be transferable to zeolites with structural similarity based on 6MR (ABC-6: LEV, ERI, EAB, ...) or d6r (AEI, AFX, KFI, SFW, SAS).
(6) IZC is a successful method for CHA-synthesis, and materials with Si/Al ratios ranging from 2 to 67 have been reported (Table 5). This upper limit is even higher than in common hydroxide media synthesis. The role of structural similarity between starting (FAU) and product zeolite can assist in the construction of the latter and possibly plays a structure-directing role. Recall that even the OSDA-free standard recipe relies on using an aluminous FAU-zeolite. Hard proof of the nanoparts hypothesis is still lacking, but due to ample reports focusing on CHA, the FAU-to-CHA IZC presents an ideal case for deeper investigation. The role of Al mobility/solubility should however not be forgotten.
(7) The work of Gounder and coauthors in preparing and characterizing the amount of Al-pairs (potentially of use as divalent cation exchange sites) is instructive. It shows that the random Al-distribution, e.g., entailing 16% of the Al-atoms occurring in pairs for Si/Al = 15, is obtained if the Na/ADAM ratio in the synthesis is fixed at 1 for specific amorphous inorganic sources. Lower ratios lead to less pairs, and sodium-free synthesis leads to fully isolated Al-centers in the zeolite. This presents a first proof of a degree of control over the pairing from synthesis in 8MR literature. It is imperative that the Al-distributions resulting from other CHA-synthesis protocols (detailed in this review) are characterized (Co-titration). Equally so, the protocol could be easily verified for other d6r-only materials, given that the statistical model for random pairing is based on the Al-occurrence in 6MRs (Figure 16, left).
2.3.4. DDR
The framework DDR is known since its pure-silica form (deca-dodecasil 3R) was prepared by Gies using 1-adamantylamine. (239) In addition to RTH, it is one of the few relevant 8MR zeolites that contain 5MR. Since the pioneering effort of Gies, a great deal of work has been performed on pure-silica DDR, especially in the context of sorption and gas-separation (i.e., CH4/CO2, (240) propylene/propane (241)). These pure-silica (nonzeolite) syntheses are out of the scope of this review. The first aluminosilicate DDR, ZSM-58, was patented by Valyocsik, (58) while Stewart et al. reported the similar Sigma-1 zeolite. (57) ZSM-58 is made using so-called methyltropinium (Figure 17) in classic gels containing Na+, and it typically has high Si/Al ratios; originally from 31 to 111. (58) Several groups later reported samples with higher and lower Si/Al ratios (178 and 18). (242,243) In similar gels, with Si/Al ratios specifically at 30 and OH/Si ratios around 0.10.17, Stewart et al. found that using the free amine, 1-adamantylamine (Figure 17), also worked for DDR formation, giving the zeolite Sigma-1. Competing zeolites in OH-richer media were mordenite and ZSM-5 (both also containing 5MR). Interestingly, using Si/Al ratios lower than 30 gave a competitive formation of LEV zeolite (Nu-3, see section 2.3.8), while less alumina favored Sigma-2 formation (SGT). The material produced by Stewart and co-workers had a Si/Al ratio near 50, but later, Lobo and co-workers and Jeon et al. managed to obtain Sigma-1 zeolite with Si/Al ratios of 16. (244,164) Given that the all-silica version of DDR exists, the Si/Al ratios of reported DDR-zeolites thus range from 16 to infinity.
Figure 17 Figure 17. Reported OSDAs for aluminosilicate DDR synthesis and the DDR structure.
Recently, Yarulina et al. studied Sigma-1 and ZSM-58 in close comparison, while assessing the impact of seeding on defect formation and MTO performance (for in depth catalytic discussion, see section 3.4.3). (245,246) The authors conveniently showed how the use of seeds with specific sizes (0.08, 0.5, and 2.5 μm, respectively, from ball-milling) can produce Sigma-1 zeolites with controlled and uniform sizes (0.5, 2.5, and 4.6 μm, respectively). The particle size of ZSM-58 in this study, made for comparison, was ca. 1 μm.
2.3.5. ERI (and EAB)
Erionite is a naturally occurring zeolite with Si/Al ratios close to 3. This zeolite is a member of the ABC-6 family, as is the closely related EAB zeolite (Table 3, stacking sequences in Figure 18). Interestingly, EAB, with the cage in Figure 18 and also a Si/Al ratio near 3, was first discovered using TMA and only later found in a mineral composition (see Table 1). Natural erionite was used as a shape-selective cracking catalyst in the past (section 1.2, and 3.6.1), and this fueled the need for synthetic recipes. Aiello and Barrer reported the first synthetic ERI, with a similar composition to that of natural erionite using Na+ and TMA cations. They noted that the TMA cations had to be residing in the large cage of the structure (Figure 7), since the other voids (the d6r and can-units, Figure 18) are too small to host TMA. Likely, more than 1 TMA was found per cage. The large cages are connected and construct an open 3D-network of 8MR-pores, unlike in EAB, where gme-cavities connect the larger cages, and a 2D-network results. Meier reported that in EAB synthesis, the TMA cation occupies the gme-cavities (previously shown to be a good fit). (61) The framework densities of EAB and ERI are 16 and 16.1 T atoms/1000 Å3, respectively.
Figure 18 Figure 18. ABC-6 stacking sequence of ERI and EAB. Middle figures adapted from Meier and Groner. (61) Note that both structures have d6r (where two layers are repeated), but they cannot be exclusively formed by that composite building unit. Reported classic DABCO-derived OSDAs for ERI on the left (for DABCO, remove R-groups and the charge), the large DielsAlder derived OSDA in the middle, and the cooperative CDM OSDAs on the right. Diquats are the crystallization-inducing organics for UZM-12.
While EAB forms in mixtures with the Si/Al ratio at 6.8 and the Na+ and TMA+ to Si ratios at about 0.5, (61) making pure ERI with TMA is more difficult. Often, intergrowths with the closely related OFF zeolite (large pore material) are obtained. (247) Rubin and Rosinski patented a method for synthetic ERI, with Si/Al ratios around 4, based on adding BTMA (also used for making CHA through IZC, Figure 14) to Na+- and K+-containing Si/Al = 14 mixtures. (248) Later, OFF intergrowths were also detected in this material. (249) Occelli et al. reported an interesting synthesis based on DABCO derivatives (Figure 18). (170) Ironically these authors first labeled their material as an ERI/OFF mixture, but later, through electron diffraction, they showed that it was in fact phase-pure ERI after all, with the Si/Al ratio around 5. (249) A breakthrough for synthetic ERI was presented in the 2000s, by using the charge density mismatch approach (method E, Table 2). (69,148,250) This route offers access to more siliceous ERI, known as UZM-12, so far, up to Si/Al 7.4. The CDM approach is often seen as a two-step procedure. For ERI, first, a mix of SiO2, Al-butoxide, and TEA(OH) is made, with a Si/Al ratio of 16 and a high TEA/Si of 0.8. This mixture does not induce crystallization or solid formation, not even after 28 days. (70) After digestion overnight, Miller et al. added the crystallization-inducing solution, consisting of a large diquat (e.g., Me6-diquat-6, Figure 18) and some KCl (diquat/Al = 2 and K/Al = 4), and incubated at 125 C for 7 days. This leads to a pure ERI-zeolite with Si/Al at 5.7. Hong and co-workers incubated similar solutions, but with the diquat and KCl added right from the start, with similar ERI formation results. (70) They also noted that diquats (with 6 different kinds of end-groups) that were either too short or long (n = 3 or 7) did not yield ERI. These authors also computed the stabilization energies of the diquats in the large ERI cage. They found that the differences between TEA and the diquats were sufficiently large to assume that TEA only acted as a CDM OSDA (preventing the initial mixture from condensing). Strikingly, since a large range of diquats worked in this approach, it is safe to suggest the structurally nonspecific role of these organics, thus as crystallization OSDAs, rather than fitting perfectly. The cation incorporation for the Me6-diquat-6 ERI for instance, was estimated at (diquat1.6TEA0.1K2.1H0.9H2O10.3)-[Al6.3Si29.7O72], clearly in excess for the diquat with respect to TEA. (70) It is interesting to note that the recipes from Occelli et al, using DABCO derivatives (Figure 18), are not far off from the CDM recipes in terms of gel composition, with the exception that, instead of TEA, Na+ was used.
Finally, in 2017, Martn et al. reported a new IZC route to ERI, based on a large multicyclic DielsAlder derived OSDA (Figure 18, middle of OSDAs) and the use of the right FAU (Si/Al = 6) zeolite precursor (OSDA/Si: 0.2, KOH/Si: 0.1, H2O/Si: 515). The same OSDA also led to AFX zeolite (section 2.3.2). (198) An intergrowth of ERI and LEV is also know in the patent literature, i.e., SSZ-105. (251)
2.3.6. GIS
Zeolite P is the synthetic analogue of gismondine (and some other very related mineral structures). It was discovered as NaP by Barrer and his colleagues. (252) The cage-less zeolite presents a medium-dense structure (i.e., 16.4 T atoms per 1000 Å3 compared to 19.2 for dense ANA, and 15.1 for CHA), with channels running in three dimensions. The structure is (unusually) flexible and has good inorganic ion-exchange properties. (253) The latter is the reason for its commercial application at the kiloton scale, in a form also known as maximum aluminum P or MAP. (108,254) Its ion-exchange performance is sometimes attributed to the small crystallite sizes with large external surface areas. (255) Barrer and co-workers discovered this zeolite using inorganic components alone. It is a common phase observed in sodium-rich, highly alkaline aluminosilicate gels heated to around 100 C, and therefore, it is often encountered as an impurity in zeolite synthesis containing both sodium and OSDA. An example of this is the synthesis of AEI, where relatively high OH/Si and Na/Si ratios prevail. GIS-zeolite impurities can often easily be removed via acid-washing, e.g., with HCl, while the OSDA-filled AEI zeolite is acid-stable. (184) Structural elucidation of GIS was performed by Baerlocher and Meier, (74) and even a TMA-directed, so-called high-silica P, was documented by them. TMA appeared to be occluded, and the Si/Al was 3. (256) In the early days of zeolite synthesis, obtaining highly crystalline samples with Si/Al ratios of 1 was difficult. Moreover, different types of zeolite P were found, with different crystal habits. Hansen et al. clarified these issues (discerning between zeolite P1 (Si/Al  1.6), P2 (Si/Al  2.2), and high-silica P) and investigated the relation between chemical composition and crystal structure. (253) Albert et al. managed to obtain well-crystallized NaP-zeolites with Si/Al ratio at unity (MAP), from equimolar sodium aluminate and silicate mixtures, with added NaOH at 100 C for 5 days (likely, the commercial recipe is similar, but with shorter crystallization times). They refined the structure of their aluminous NaP, as well as its Ca-exchanged form (CaP), hereby confirming the GIS net and discussing the close structural relationship between synthetic P-zeolites and gismondine. (257,258) The IZA recipe for zeolite P (Si/Al = 1.2) is based on a long 60 day procedure at 85 C using kaolinite clay as the source of both T atoms in a NaF-rich medium (F/Si = 2.4). (259) Gismondine type zeolites have also been prepared via hydrothermal, high-pressure (geomimicking) conditions by Ghobarkar and Schaf. These authors synthesized a lot of 8MR zeolite in this way (e.g., EDI, EPI, ANA, THO, see method A in Table 3). At 1000 bar, and temperatures near 250 C, gismondine type minerals could be prepared from the glass 4CaO4Al2O38SiO2. (67) As mentioned (sections 2.3.3.4), zeolite P has been used as an Al-source in partial interzeolite conversions, leading to CHA (and LEV, see later). The opposite direction, i.e., IZC leading to GIS, is also known. Subotic and co-workers studied the transformation of zeolite A (LTA) into P (GIS). (260) In this transformation, the authors thought it was more likely that the P-nucleation happened in the solution, rather than on the zeolite As surface and thus that zeolite A and P existed as discrete particle systems during all stages of the transformation. IZC in this case clearly contrasts with that of other more siliceous zeolites (e.g., CHA or LEV), probably due to the highly alkaline (NaOH) conditions.
The more recent zeolite P work focuses on morphology control (Si/Al dependent), (261) the use of different, cheaper, T atom sources (e.g., fly ash), or alternative methods (e.g., microwave, sonochemistry). (262,263) Sharma et al. noted a NaP1 synthesis where the zeolite seemingly exhibits spherical morphologies, composed of a large number of nanocrystalline particles (40100 nm), rendering the zeolite mesoporous. (264) Goel et al. have looked into incorporating metal clusters in the small-pore zeolite, by blending (organic amine or ammonia ligated) metal precursors into the synthesis. Interestingly, metal-containing zeolite ANA (dense 8MR zeolite) was obtained by the IZC of a metal-containing GIS. (265) The relevance of MAP is evident, given its industrial application. However, pure-phase syntheses of GIS zeolites with Si/Al ratios higher than 3 have not been encountered in our search. It might however be important to look for highly siliceous or even pure silica GIS phases, as these could have beneficial properties for small-molecule separation (CO2/CH4/H2 e.g.). The synthesis of such GIS materials will be especially challenging, as it does not resemble the high-silica approaches for cage-based 8MR zeolites, e.g., applied to CHA or LEV, where organics are incorporated easily. Even lessons from LTA synthesis (section 2.3.9), that for a long time had the same limitations to its Si/Al range (max. 3), do not seem relevant here.
2.3.7. KFI
Barrer encountered the first KFI zeolite using Ba-salts and synthetic analcime (also other minerals and gels) as T atom source at around 200 C. (125) He recognized it as being the first synthetic zeolite with no natural counterpart and noticed its 8MR behavior by comparing it to chabazite. Structure elucidation and the first presentation of the very relevant framework were presented by Meier and Kokotailo, with Mobils ZK-5 zeolite (different synthesis). ZK-5 was among the first zeolites prepared with an OSDA in hydroxide media. (88,127,266) The structure of KFI can be built from the large (α-cage) lta-composite building unit, a large cuboctahedron, also found in LTA and RHO (Figure 7). These large cages are linked to each other by their 6MR, effectively forming d6r units (Figure 19). In contrast, to obtain LTA, the large cages are linked by their 4MR (in d4r), and by sharing their 8MR, while in RHO, they are exclusively linked by their 8MR (via d8r, Figure 23 below). (127) Given the KFI description based on lta-cages, linked by d6r, the remaining space is filled by pau-cages (2 projections of this building unit in Figure 19). In the light of 8MRs, the latter is an interesting unit, as it is composed of two types of 8-rings, one set of these being near planar. Interestingly, the entire KFI structure can also be constructed from only d6r units. As with AEI and CHA, the d6r units can be visualized ordered in chains that form planes (Figure 19, left), which lead to the large cavities by stacking.
Figure 19 Figure 19. Left: the structure of KFI as built from chains of d6r units (blue), with its pau (yellow) and lta cages (green). Right: OSDAs reported for KFI: methyl-diquaternized DABCO (up) and crown-ether (down). Left: 2D-network adapted from the IZA; (3) 3D-network adapted with permission from Remy et al. (112) Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society. Compare left to Figure 8 for AEI and CHA.Given the clear structural links between KFI, RHO, and LTA, based on the large cage and with KFI being a member of the d6r-only family, the synthesis of KFI presents an interesting case. Kerr reported ZK-5 using the methylated diquat of DABCO (Figure 19) in the presence of Na+, and these materials had Si/Al ratios between 2.02.5. Later, ZK-5 was produced by Robson, in a more straightforward, organic-free way, using K+ as principal cation and Cs+ as cocation (with or without Na+). Robsons KFI zeolites had Si/Al ratios below 3.5. (87) The latter recipe was recently confirmed by Ji et al. yielding Si/Al = 3.1, in an attempt to evaluate dealuminated KFI in methanol conversion. (267) A higher-silica KFI was claimed by Verduijn, using a mix of Sr2+ and K+, typically in gels with Si/Al ratios near 5. The actual ratios of the materials were often close to 3.5. (268) When insufficient Sr2+ is added (Sr2+/Si < 0.0025), the gels typically lead to the one-dimensional 12MR zeolite LTL. Interestingly, Verduijn noticed that decreasing the alkalinity was found to slightly increase the Si/Al ratios and also that the addition of trace Ba2+ helped as well: a gel containing K+/Si, Sr2+/Si, and Ba2+/Si ratios of 0.36, 0.01, and 0.0005, respectively, yielded KFI with Si/Al = 4.2, at 150 C. Chatelain et al. reported an interesting variation of the Sr2+ recipe, by using an additional organic crown-ether (Figure 19) in the gel and the same amounts of K+ and Sr2+. The crown ether was found to speed up the crystallization of KFI, slightly decreasing the Al incorporation (Si/Al = 4.0). One crown-ether was incorporated per unit cell in the product, in the lta-cage. In a reverse strategy for aluminum and in the context of CO2 adsorption, Remy et al. proposed a recipe for low-silica KFI, achieving Si/Al ratios near 1.7, based on using Li+, Na+, K+, and TMA cations. (112) This recipe somewhat resembles another entry by Barrer, who combined Li+, Cs+, and TMA to obtain KFI. (269) The structure of KFI, the first synthetic zeolite and also the first example of interzeolite conversion, is a promising one: as Meier pointed out, the zeolite has two independent 3D-pore systems based on 8MRs and large, useful cages. (127) For gas-separation and adsorption, KFI has been reported to some extent, but its use as a catalyst is largely unexplored. The latter is explained by the fact that, strikingly, a zeolite version of the framework with Si/Al > 5 has never been reported. Methods to postsynthetically remove Al have been evaluated, but a synthetic recipe leading to more stable KFI zeolites with Si/Al ratios in the range of 1050 would be a game-changer. Given the recent progress in making high-silica and even pure-silica LTA in fluoride media, based on stabilizing the large α-cages (see below (37,135,172)), the synthesis of the KFI framework could be revisited in high-silica gels, using similar OSDAs. A second approach to KFI could focus on IZC methods starting from FAU, as reported for CHA and AEI. Given the systematic relationship between KFI and the structures of these two d6r-only frameworks (planes of d6r), as pointed out by Lillerud, (270) new synthesis routes to KFI might be found in modified CHA or AEI-conditions. The most difficult part will be to stabilize the larger lta-cages. In this context, the SAV-topology deserves mention: this framework, also constructed from d6r planes and chains and with a relatively large cage, has only been reported in metalloaluminophosphate composition (not a zeolite), using azamacrocycles. The latter are similar to crown-ethers (Figure 19), but with nitrogen instead of oxygen and with additional methyl groups on the nitrogens. (271) Exploring these or similar OSDAs in conditions known to crystallize zeolites CHA or AEI (LTA, KFI) could be an option.
2.3.8. LEV
LEV, known from minerals (Table 1-3), is another member of the ABC-6 family, with stacking sequence AABCCABBC. LEV has some d6r units, but cannot exclusively be built from them. LEV has one of the smaller cages of the 8MR zeolites (Figure 7).
Kerr claimed the first synthetic LEV by using monomethylated DABCO (Table 6, entry 1), and he obtained highly aluminous products (Si/Al from 1.9 to 2.7) that closely resemble the natural levyne. Short and Whittam patented Nu-3, a more siliceous form of LEV, with Si/Al ratios ranging up to 50 by using N-methylquinuclidium as OSDA (MeQ, Table 6, entry 2). (272) Casci et al. further investigated Nu-3 formation (Table 6, entry 34) with MeQ. Although structurally similar to DABCO, the MeQ molecule is not able to lead to LEV in the conditions of Kerr, and vice versa, the DABCO OSDA did not lead to Nu-3 in Cascis conditions. (273) Later, Stewart also patented Nu-3 made from 1-adamantylamine (not in table). (274) Adamantylamine is known from DDR synthesis (section 2.3.4).
Table 6. Overview of Notable LEV-Zeolite Synthesis Conditions () aSi indicates silica sol or fumed silica. Quaternary amines (OSDA) and Na+ in/from hydroxide form unless otherwise mentioned. s.a. = steamed and acid-leached. bNear neutral fluoride media synthesis without Na+, with HF (F/amine = 1). cMethylamine and seeds added. dNo Na+ used. eNote that the seeds (17%) contained choline, as they were made according to entry 13. f1-2 ethanol to Si used, on top of 5% seeds made according to reference from entry 10, with Si/Al 9.8, calcination unsure.
Tuoto et al. presented a thorough study on the crystallization of LEV from classic gels, with the MeQ OSDA in its iodide form. (275) They studied nucleation and crystallization rates for different Si/Al starting ratios ranging from 5 to 25 (e.g., Table 6, entry 5), as well as for different temperatures. This range is more aluminous than that in Cascis work, (273) and the Al-incorporation matched the content in the synthesis mixtures well. The crystallization curves for Nu-3 at Si/Al = 5 (Figure 20, left) allowed for the calculation of an (apparent) activation energy that is around 21 kJ/mol for both nucleation and crystal growth (thermally activated, Arrhenius). This energy for the crystallization is on the low side, as for example Thompsons review showed a range of 4580 kJ mol1 to be common for a variety of molecular sieves. (276) Values in the latter range would be indicative of control (limitation of rate) by the surface reaction rather than by diffusion from precursors of the gel or solution to the crystal surface. Given the low value for LEV found by Tuoto et al., the question arises whether their data shows diffusion-limited growth rates. Such low values could suggest that larger condensed particles (amorphous precursors) have to transport to the surface and attach to the growing crystal, rather than monomolecular T atom precursors or small oligomeric species. (167,207) Next, these authors investigated the influence of the amount of aluminum on both rates, and they expressed this in linear plots with logarithmic variables (Figure 20, right). The higher Al-content of the gel or the process of incorporating more Al in the frameworks, had a strong negative effect on the rates of crystallization and nucleation (i.e., longer induction times).
Figure 20 Figure 20. Left: crystallization curves for LEV with MeQ(I) in the conditions of Table 6, entry 5 at different temperatures. Using induction time (tind, in hours) as a measure for nucleation rate and the linear slope of the relative crystallinity (R, in change/day) for the crystallization rates, the plot on the right can be constructed for Si/Al = 5. Right: logarithmic nucleation and growth rate as a function of the Al-content. The nucleation curve is translated to fit both plots in one frame. Based on data and figures from Tuoto et al. (275) The authors also performed a thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) to find proof that MeQ associated with negatively charged silica defects, i.e., SiO or siloxy groups, (277) at high Si/Al ratios (next to compensating Al-framework charge). For Si/Al = 5, a uniform decomposition zone for the organic was found in TGA, but for lower Al-incorporations, a second decomposition temperature emerged, in conjunction with an improper charge balance indicating the formation of SiOM or Si(OM)2 (with M being MeQ+, Na+ or H+). The latter was confirmed by 29Si NMR and mass spectrometry, as well as by calcination, where the defect groups disappeared upon dehydration. (275) The authors also analyzed the MeQ, Na, and Al contents per unit cell, but no calculation related to MeQ occlusion in cages was given. We performed a count of the number of (individual) T atoms per cage for LEV in two ways. The unit cell possesses 6 full cages for 54 T atoms or on average 9 full T atoms per cage. (176) This value is also possible to obtain from counting the T atoms surrounding the cage and taking into account their degree of sharing over cages: 30 T atoms form the lev-cage, but by viewing a 3D-model, one can discriminate between T atoms that are part of the d6r units (red in Figure 7) and those that are part of singular 6MR (the ABC-6 sequence can be useful here). The latter (blue in Figure 7, 12/30 T atoms) are shared over 4 cages, while the remaining 18 d6r-T atoms are shared over 3 cages, thus adding up to 9 full T atoms per cage. Considering one MeQ per cage, this would indicate that Si/Al = 8 ratios (8Si + 1Al) are ideal for not having defects. Interestingly, Tuoto et al. analyzed 5.8 MeQ molecules per unit cell, perfectly matching the 5.8 aluminums per unit cell for their material with Si/Al ratio of 7.5. More aluminous materials incorporated more Na+ (no defects), while less aluminous ones had more or less the same amount of Na+ (but with increasing defect sites). The balance MeQ/Al was only 1 in the Si/Al = 7.5 case. Taking into account our analysis and those for AEI and CHA above, it appears that there is an ideal Si/Al ratio for the MeQ (Nu-3) LEV-type material. An interesting open question is whether this influences or causes the slower rates of nucleation and growth in the more aluminous case (e.g., Figure 20, right, Si/Al = 7.5), considering, e.g., that building defects entail less condensation reactions and less strain. This analysis is illustrated in Figure 27 in section 2.4.
Using MeQ as well, Zones and co-workers reported the formation of Nu-3 starting from zeolite P (GIS) and soluble sodium silicate (Table 6, entry 6). (142) Recall that these authors also used this type of gel-free system to obtain 8MR zeolites CHA (Table 5, entry 5) and AFX from the same GIS. Interestingly, Chan et al. presented a follow-up study where the GIS-to-LEV transformation was monitored by electron microscopy, as all changes take place without GIS transforming into an amorphous phase. (278) The nucleation of the LEV was found to occur at the surface of the disappearing GIS crystals (solution/solid interface), but no evidence of phase-intergrowth was found in electron diffraction. The authors suggested a role for the organic as a phase-transfer reagent at this interface due to the rate-enhancement effect of the organic. Keeping Tuotos low activation energies for LEV crystal growth in mind, this role could be plausible. The resulting zeolites Si/Al values are quite low, i.e., doubled versus the starting GIS (additional sodium silicate is added). Whether this is limited by the high solubility of silica in these hydroxide rich systems (Table 6, entry 6) or our above hypothesis that the MeQ-zeolite has a tendency for low Si/Al ratios around 8 (or lower based on Na+) remains to be seen.
Caullet et al. prepared LEV in fluoride media by using the free amine quinuclidine (Table 6, entry 7, drawn with proton as the pKa is 11, and the synthesis neutral). (279) They noted that the obtainable Si/Al ratio in the materials was very limited (between 8 and 11) and that only 0.61.3 F-anions were incorporated per unit cell (along with 6 quinuclidiniums (ammonium)). Pure-silica LEV, with coincorporation of one F-anion per OSDA, can thus not be made in this manner. The authors also added methylamine to some synthesis and noted that, in its presence, a part of the OSDA incorporated was in situ formed MeQ (entry 8).
Researchers from Mobil reported zeolite ZSM-45, also of the LEV-topology, by using choline chloride, metalorganic complexes (289) such as [Co(C5H5)2]+ or, notably, diethyldimethylammonium as organic additive (DEDMA, Table 6, entry 9). The latter organic was claimed to lead to LEV in mixtures with Si/Al ratios between 5 and 40, while lower or higher values led to formation of FAU or MTW-type zeolites, respectively. (280) Yamamoto et al. confirmed this recipe and presented a structural analysis of this LEV-analogue in a synthesis where product and gel roughly had the same Si/Al ratio (Table 6, entry 10). (281) Notably, they found that the ethyl groups of the occluded OSDA were allocated to build a 5-membered organic ring (4-carbon, 1 nitrogen). They then briefly also demonstrated successful LEV syntheses with the N,N-dimethylpyrrolidinium, and N,N-dimethylpiperidinium cations (i.e., respectively using the 5-membered ring and an organic with one additional carbon in the ring). The latter had already been reported for LEV, by Xu et al., who showed Si/Al ratios ranging from 3.4 to 10.6 in the materials, even though some gels had much higher ratios (Table 6, entry 11, chloride form). (282) Hong and co-workers discovered that the aliphatic diquat (or protonated di-tertiary amine in this case) Me4-diquat-5 (bromide form, Table 6, entry 12) could lead to LEV in a very narrow range (Si/Al in gel = 2030). (283) This group had already successfully used other diquats for 8MR zeolites (see AFX and ERI). The narrow range of conditions and the high OH and Na+ contents demonstrate the inorganic domination in this synthesis. Strikingly, the Si/Al of this aluminosilicate LEV, again, is close to 8. Moreover, elemental analysis showed around 3 diquats per unit cell, which seemed plausible from 13C NMR and stabilization energy calculations considering one organic spanning 2 cages. The authors rightfully noted that the diquat in this case plays a structurally nonspecific space-filling role, as it is also known to lead to NON, MTW, and MOR in similar inorganic-dominated gels. This is similar to the role of such diquats in ERI synthesis (CDM).
Besides the partial IZC mentioned above for LEV from GIS (added silica, entry 6), the Sano group reported the synthesis of LEV from FAU-zeolites, in both hydroxide and fluoride media. They found that choline hydroxide as organic worked well, and they noticed highly microporous LEV forming from zeolites with Si/Al ratios of 1622 (not higher, Table 6, entry 13). (284) From TGA, seven decomposing cholines per unit cell were counted and the Si/Al ratio was (again) close to 8. Amorphous precursor syntheses did not lead to LEV-crystallization. FAU belongs to the d6r-only family, while LEV contains a decent number of d6r, on top of free 6MR connected through 4MR and 8MR. A time-resolved PXRD study showed the disappearance of all FAU reflections, before LEV reflections appeared from the X-ray-amorphous mixtures. Later, the same group investigated this transition in fluoride (-containing) media, using 1-adamantylamine or choline hydroxide (Table 6, entry 1415). (285) Using choline hydroxide, Na+ was necessary to obtain crystalline LEV and it should be noted that these syntheses contain more OH (from OSDA) than F anions. From adamantylamine (no hydroxide), the conditions were more flexible, were Na+-free, and worked over a larger Si/Al range. Recall that Stewart patented this OSDA for Nu-3 in classic hydrothermal systems. (274) The 1-adamantylamine products were in close relation to the starting FAU, i.e.,1329 in the obtained zeolites (Table 6, compare entries 1415). The 1-adamantylamine-containing synthesis thus inferred high yields. Another striking difference with the choline catalyzed IZC was that the FAU zeolite did not disappear with 1-adamantylamine before LEV reflections were seen. A very recent IZC details the use of N,N-dimethylpiperidinium hydroxide as OSDA for obtaining nanosized LEV particles (e.g., 35 nm in entry 18). Comparable synthesis from amorphous sources yielded 80 nm crystals, while a similar recipe with choline hydroxide (cfr, entry 1314) led to larger 220 nm sized zeolites. Nanosized LEV materials in the range of Si/Al = 1030 can be accessed with this new IZC route. (288) Finally, two organic-free, seed-assisted methods for LEV synthesis have been reported (Method B, Table 2). First, the Sano group succeeded in transforming FAU (Si/Al = 25) in the presence of a large amount, 17 wt % based on silica, of uncalcined, choline hydroxide containing seeds (Si/Al = 10.7, made according to entry 13). (286) The resulting zeolite had a low Si/Al, and the yield was around 20% (entry 16). Interestingly, the authors note that the LEV had a silica enriched core and Al-enriched shells. Likely, the core stems from partially dissolved, more siliceous seeds onto which the new zeolite has grown. All choline in the seeds was recovered in the final zeolite. When calcined seeds were used, no LEV was formed, indicating that the seeds are more stable when containing the organic. (286) A second OSDA-free method was reported by Zhang et al., using 5 wt % of LEV-seeds from a DEDMA synthesis (likely calcined) and ethanol (Table 6, entry 17). The ethanol suppressed the competing MOR-zeolites, and the resulting LEV had a low Si/Al ratio of 4. Solid yields were not mentioned and the pore volume of the Na-containing zeolite was very low. (287) In conclusion, LEV is an appealing 8MR zeolite, and even though the structure is known from aluminous natural minerals (Si/Al = 2), its synthetic aluminosilicate counterparts are always synthesized with the use of an OSDA (despite of some OSDA-derived seeded synthesis). When comparing all representative entries in Table 6, it is clear that a lot of syntheses lead to LEV with Si/Al ratio around 8, and a link with the cage-based organic incorporation has been suggested. The best OSDA for making these zeolites over the broadest Al-content range is the methyl-quinuclidinium cation. So far, the highest Si/Al ratio reported still dates back to the first patent using said organic. (272) The abundance of 6MR in the structure could matter in the IZC conversion routes starting from FAU but is yet to be proven. Recent mechanistic studies concerning the crystallization mechanisms of LEV and other cage-containing zeolites (CHA, LTA, and UFI) are discussed in section 2.4.
2.3.9. LTA
2.3.9.1. Introduction and Pioneering Syntheses
LTA is the best-known 8MR zeolite. Its use as a universal drying agent (desiccant) in gases and polar or nonpolar liquids and an ion exchanger and adsorbent for organics is widespread (domestic, industrial, academic). Consider for instance that zeolites 3A, 4A, and 5A are all commercially available LTA varieties, that effectively have different practical pore openings of 3, 4, and 5 Å, because they are exchanged with either K+, Na+, or Ca2+, respectively. The cubic structure of the zeolite is easily recognizable and harbors the large lta (or α)-cage (Figure 7). Theses cages partially connect with each other through d4r units, as well as by sharing their 8MR. The common building unit arising from this organization is the sodalite (sod-) cage, and the structure is more easily visualized by connecting sod-cages through d4r (Figure 21). Recall that in KFI and RHO, the lta-cages connect through d6r and d8r units, respectively (Figures 19,23, and 24).
Figure 21 Figure 21. Structure of LTA with its three composite building blocks (red). Adapted from Conato et al., ref (290) with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry. (Compare to Figure 23, section 2.3.10). The blue structure shows LTA built from eight lta (or α-) cages.
The pioneering synthesis of LTA led to the zeolite called Linde type A. A standard procedure is now available for this material that has a Si/Al ratio of 1 (Table 7, entry 1). Since the discovery, researchers have attempted to make LTA type materials with higher Si/Al ratios. As reported by Kerr, Si/Al ratios near 1.5 were attained by using the TMA cation in conjunction with Na+ (ZK-4 material, Table 7, entry 2). Entry 3 presents the very similar IZA-recipe for ZK-4. Later, Mobil researchers also reported zeolite alpha, with Si/Al ratios near 3. (291) The standard IZA recipe for that form of LTA differs from the original one. Essentially, the OSDA added per Si is much lower in the IZA-recipe for a strikingly higher Al-content, while the gels are richer in sodium (compare Entries 4 and 5 in Table 7). Khl et al. also reported a method leading to LTA with Si/Al ratios ranging between 1 and 2.25 using (eventually intercalated) phosphates (claimed to complex Al-atoms during the synthesis). (292) Table 7. Overview of Notable LTA-Zeolite Synthesis Conditions aNa/Si, unless other element is explicitly mentioned; then element/Si ratio is tabulated, e.g., F/Si. bCalculated from example 1 of the original patent, assuming use of pure NaAl2O3 where stated sodium aluminate. cSeeded with 10 wt % pure-silica LTA. Two such OSDAs can form a ππ-complex; see Figure 22. d1, 5, or 10 wt % of LTA (Si/Al = 2) seeds added, giving Si/Al of 110, 267, or 440. e10 wt % of FAU (Si/Al = 2.5) added, and 5 wt % of ITQ-29 seeds. f0.011 Pt/Si was also added. The organic is said to lose its methyl groups by hydrolysis, associate with 3 Na+ cations, and complex with the metal giving Pt(Na3-OSDA-SH)4.
2.3.9.2. Toward Higher Si/Al Ratios


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the properties that make zeolites promising support materials for CO2-ODHP catalysts, and critically evaluate the various acidity modification techniques, such as dealumination and weakening methods. How do these modifications contribute to optimizing catalytic performance, and what are the key considerations in selecting and implementing these strategies for different types of zeolites used as supports?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 