I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The Si/Al ratios of classic LTA zeolites (<3) are not high enough to ensure a good performance in acid-catalyzed reactions. This is due to the low hydrothermal stability and low hydrophobicity. Given the large voids and highly open 3D structure, LTA should be an interesting catalytic sieve, if Si/Al ratios higher than 10 are achievable.Moscoso et al. filed a patent in 2002 for the synthesis of LTA through the CDM approach. (293) The charge density mismatch approach seems to work well for small pore-zeolite synthesis, since next to LTA, ERI and UFI zeolites can been made that way (Tables 2 and 3: method E).The first CDM paper describes how to find the right, frustrated (CDM) precrystallization mixtures. (148) These mixtures stay solutions even after long times at higher temperatures, due to the charge density mismatch between the relatively high Al-content (high charge density potential framework) and the (low charge density) CDM OSDA (ideally tetrapropylammonium or TEA, in mixtures with Si/Al  10 at OH/Si  0.8). Then, by adding the right amount of TMA or Na (higher charge density), matching occurs and the crystallization is induced. LTA was encountered in a TEA-mismatched mixture (Si/Al = 8, TEA/Si = 1) upon adding TMA and Na (both 0.5 per Al) and 8 days at 125 C. The conditions closely resembled that to make UZM-5 (at 150 C, 4d), the new zeolite topology discovered via CDM (UFI, Table 3). Further optimization led to a mismatch mixture containing both TEA and DEDMA (this OSDA was encountered in Table 6 as well for LEV), crystallized by adding Na and TMA ([Na+TMA]/Al = 1, Table 7, entry 6). The material had a high Si/Al ratio of 5.5 (high for a OH-media derived LTA), and all three organics were found to be incorporated. (148) A detailed charge density model was recently proposed, focusing on UFI and LTA. The authors noted that the crystallization inducing cations (and heat) attack the CDM barrier, while the driving force for solid formation from a frustrated mixture is the Coulombic stabilization associated with the charged zeolite framework. (297) The mechanism of LTA formation via this route, in comparison to UFI, was studied in detail by Hong and co-workers, as discussed in section 2.4. (297,298) A second breakthrough for LTA was presented by Corma et al. in 2004, when they prepared so-called ITQ-29, in fluoride media syntheses. Although mostly pointing to germanosilicate and pure-silicate versions of LTA, the authors also showed an aluminosilicate LTA by using TMA in conjunction with a large supramolecular OSDA complex of two identical large aromatic ππ-stacked cations (Figure 22). That moiety self-assembles in solution and incorporates in the large cage. (37) The synthesis was heavily seeded (Table 7, entry 7) and yielded a material with a Si/Al ratio of 47.Figure 22 Figure 22. Formation of ITQ-29 (LTA) from the supramolecular self-assembly of 4-methyl-2,3,6,7-tetrahydro-1H,5H-pyrido [3.2.1-ij] quinolinium iodide. Atom colors: green = N, red = C, blue = T atoms, yellow = O, white = H. For aluminosilicate, TMA needs to be added, that presumably occupies the sod-cage in the center (not shown). Note how the lta-cages are connected in this view, compared to that in Figures 21 and 23. Reproduced with permission from ref (37). Copyright 2004 Nature Publishing Group.Valtchev and co-workers further investigated the self-assembly approach, focusing on aluminosilicates. (294) They proposed a reproducible recipe for high-silica LTA by adding nanocrystalline aluminous LTA seeds (Si/Al = 2, made according to ref (299))still containing TMAto the fluoride media synthesis (Table 7, entry 8). The seeds dissolved, and the aluminum was incorporated into the growing crystals. Highly siliceous LTAs thus obtained could be used for new seeded synthesis (1 wt % being enough). The lowest Si/Al ratio in this approach was 110. Very recently, Moteki and Lobo expanded this approach by using FAU crystals as Al-source in fluoride media, still with the self-assembled complex OSDAs leading to LTA zeolites with Si/Al ratios ranging from 63 to 420 (Table 7, entry 9). (295) As with the aluminous LTA seeds, it was shown that the FAU-crystals dissolved in the early stages, prior to LTA formation. It should be mentioned that germanosilicate ITQ-29 seeds were added there. This method of using FAU crystals as Al-source in low-water fluoride media gels was also demonstrated for CHA. (295) Note that (i) the synthesis of aluminosilicate LTA with the self-assembling OSDAs has never succeeded without seeds (Entries 79); (ii) the use of Kryptofix K222 (C18H36O6N2), a large crown-ether, for (germano)silicate ITQ-29 has also been reported, but not for aluminosilicate (300) and; (iii) many recipes with other organics are known for other LTA sieve compositions (e.g., AlPO4). (301,302) A third breakthrough in widening the Si/Al ratios of LTA was reported by Davis and co-workers. (135) The use of 1,2-dimethyl-3-(4-methylbenzyl)imidazolium (DM3(4MB)) and a small amount of TMA in fluoride media offers an LTA-recipe with flexibility in the aluminum incorporation (Table 7, entries 1011). As such, Boal et al. demonstrated seeded syntheses yielding LTA with Si/Al ratios ranging from 12 to 42. This almost closes the gap in the prior Si/Al range, as up until then, no aluminosilicate LTA had been reported with ratios in the range between 5.5 (CDM method) and 47 (self-assembled OSDA). It was also possible to obtain pure-silica LTA, with either seeds or TMA added. The robustness of the method was shown by germanosilicate and titanosilicate LTA syntheses. TGA showed two OSDA molecules in the lta-cage, and this was supported by molecular modeling. A stabilization energy of 16.9 kJ per mol Si, for 2 OSDAs per unit cell, was found. The energies for the supramolecular stacked OSDA were also calculated and averaged at 13.03 kJ/(mol Si). A bit later, Jo et al. reported the same OSDA for LTA synthesis (entries 1213), as well as a modified version with a fluoro group (entry 14). (172) The syntheses with the same OSDA were conducted at higher temperature, and no seeds were needed for similar results as the earlier report (compare to entries 1112). Using seeds, a material with intermediate Al-content was obtained (Si/Al = 8.3, entry 13).
2.3.9.3. Other LTA Syntheses
The Rimer group interestingly reinvestigated the synthesis of LTA without organic with the help of kinetic (ternary) phase diagrams, as often used in the early days of zeolite discovery. (290) Remarkably, they found a region in the diagram, using classically composed mixtures of colloidal silica, NaOH, and sodium aluminate, where LTA zeolites with Si/Al ratios near 2 formed. The narrow region dictated a Si/Al ratio in the mixtures between 2.3 and 4.0 and a Si/OH ratio between 1.8 and 2.5 (e.g., Table 7, entry 15). When compared to the classic OSDA-free LTA synthesis (entry 1), the Si/Al ratio of the product is doubled. When compared to the ZK-4 syntheses (entries 23), one can see that the conditions are not greatly different, butwhile ignoring the presence of TMA and its OHthe NaOH-derived Si/OH ratios are crucially lower, at 1.4 and 1.3, respectively, for entries 2 and 3 in Table 7. The authors also noted that the size of the Si-precursor colloids greatly mattered, as smaller ones produced FAU and fumed silica produced amorphous materials in the same conditions. The (right type of) colloids are said to lead to the assembly of amorphous coreshell precursors with silica-rich insides and alumina-rich shells. (303) The authors recently investigated the role of heterogeneous aluminosilicate precursors in the solgel system during LTA nucleation. They put forward some interesting observations pointing to the role of coreshell particles containing entrained solvent, in a seemingly macroscopic homogeneous gel. The particles give rise to microscopic domains with very different spatial Si and Al distributions. The degree of heterogeneity influences the nucleation via the rate of silica release into the Al-rich environments (e.g., shell). Confinement effects, indicating that zeolite formation inside the amorphous precursor particles is energetically less favored than on the outside, were hypothesized. (304) The synthesis of nanocrystal LTA has also been reported. (305) There have been a lot of developments in the direct synthesis of mesoporous zeolites (opposed to popular postsynthetic methods (306,307)), for overcoming mass-transfer limitations. Xiao et al. showed the use of mesoscale cationic polymers for this purpose, (308) while Ryoo and co-workers reported the concept by using organosilane surfactants as mesopore-generating agents (mesoporogen, also see section 2.3.3.3 for CHA) in hydrothermal zeolite synthesis. Interestingly, the cationic polymer used by Xiao is the same as that used by Rimer and co-workers as growth-modifier to control the crystal sizes of CHA-zeolites (PDDAC). LTA was included in the pioneering effort by Ryoo. (309) In follow-up work focusing on LTA (classic NaA), it was shown that mesopore generation happened fully disordered, for instance evidenced by generating Pt-nanowires in the mesopores and visualizing these with TEM. The openness of the mesopores was probed with 129Xe-NMR. The additional use of triblock copolymers for mesopore-expanding was also shown. (310) Hasan et al. demonstrated the use of (nonsilane) surfactant CTAB to obtain mesopores in NaA (again, also used in the CHA growth-modifier study). (311) A different approach to LTA mesoporosity was shown by the Tsapatsis team, hydrothermally growing LTA zeolite inside 3D-ordered carbon templates with imprinted mesopores. (312) Another entry in the literature expanded the concept of using organofunctionalized silica precursors (or seeds) (313) to obtain an ordered mesoporous LTA. (314) Even the synthesis of hollow coreshell LTA zeolite crystals has been reported. (315) The reader is referred to recent reviews (316318) on the topic of synthesizing hierarchical zeolites, a large and active field, with many entries for LTA.
Finally, an interesting synthesis of LTA was reported by Iglesia and co-workers, who showed a strategy to encapsulate metal particles in the zeolite during their hydrothermal synthesis. The added metal precursor was stabilized by mercaptosilane ligands, preventing metal (hydr)oxide precipitation. Meanwhile, it was suggested that the trialkoxysilane side of the organic, thought to be balanced by 3 Na+ cations after hydrolysis, promoted T atom condensation. (296) The precursor to the encapsulated metalsulfur complex is seen in Table 7 (entry 16) along with the gel composition, that shows a quite high Al-content. The authors focused on the properties of the encapsulated metal particles in the zeolite, but not on the synthesis. The amount of organic incorporated per unit cell from TGA would for instance be a good measure to see the degree of complex incorporated and to verify if it has a structure-directing role rather than being encapsulated during a classic zeolite A synthesis. The cluster sizes also indicate that the migration of metal atoms had to have occurred, if the metalsulfur complexes were encapsulated in a 1 per cage fashion, as schematized in the work. (296) The authors further explored this context, replacing mercaptosilanes with amines. (319) For instance, LTA synthesis was shown by adding NH3-complexed Pt or ethylenediamine-complexed Pd to an aging gel. At this point, these results are in line with the pioneering work of Davis and co-workers in the 1980s that effectively demonstrated Rh- and Ru-containing LTA zeolites. (320322) Even earlier, the need for metal precursors to be present during zeolite crystallization was recognized, e.g. in FAU zeolite synthesis. (323)
2.3.9.4. LTA-Zeolite Conclusions
(1) LTA is a valuable topology, and its high-alumina zeolite members are commercially available and implemented at a large scale.
(2) So far, hydroxide media syntheses have not produced LTA with Si/Al ratios above 5.5. The latter was obtained by a clever tuning of the charge densities (cation addition sequence) to obtain cooperative OSDA behavior (CDM). The mechanism of this synthesis is discussed later (part 2.4).
(3) TMA is an important organic for LTA: it is the main OSDA for ZK-4 and zeolite alpha, but it is also added in the CDM method, as well as in the fluoride routes accompanying more complex OSDAs. TMA is known to stabilize sod-cages. (4) LTA can be built entirely from d4r-units. It has been noted that pure-silica 4MRs in d4r units are traditionally hard to obtain due to reasons of strain (SiOSi < SiOAl). It can thus be hypothesized that every 4MR needs at least one Al-atom to be energetically more stable and thus form more readily (than pure-silica 4MR). This dictates a minimum of 2 aluminums per d4r (per 8 T atoms) to obtain the minimal strain relief for every 4MR of the cube. Knowing that LTA can be built from only d4r units and that this unit is the most demanding one from a structural point of view, this implies that the Si/Al ratio to just minimally relieve strain is at most 3. Maximal strain relief would entail the incorporation of 2 Al atoms per 4MR, as is the case in Linde type A (Si/Al = 1) material. The highest reported value of Si/Al that one can attain in OH media without organics is 2, lending credibility to this structure/charge/strain perspective. The relation between d4r strain and (in)organic charge balancing in more siliceous CDM-zeolites should be informative for future syntheses in OH-media. (5) The new organic proposed by the Davis group gives access to LTA zeolites with Si/Al ratios of 8.3 to infinity, but only in F-media. The success is due to the stabilization of the large lta-cage by two OSDAs, in combination with the fluoride ion incorporating in the d4r, aiding in its stabilization. (135) It has been concluded that the d4r units are virtually impossible to make in pure-silica composition in the absence of F-ions. (203,324) The need for seeds and some TMA still reflects the challenging nature of constructing LTA with less aluminum, even in fluoride media. (6) It is interesting that no IZC conversions have been reported with LTA as the product. This is even more remarkable considering that the common FAU source can be entirely constructed from sod-cages. That no FAU-to-LTA IZC has been noted could be an argument in favor of the (partial) d6r (6MR) nanopart hypotheses in other reported FAU IZC syntheses (to AEI, CHA, LEV, ...).
2.3.10. RHO and Its New Family (PAU, MWF)
Zeolite Rho was discovered by Robson et al. and reported in 1973. (325) This zeolite contains the large lta (or α)-cages (Figure 7), and these cages are connected by the 8MR portals to form d8r units and by sharing a 6MR. The structure, built from the lta and d8r tiles, was predicted by Meier and Kokotailo while figuring out the structure of KFI (ZK-5). (127)Figure 23 (and Figure 24 below) shows the connection mode of the lta-cages in RHO, along with that for zeolites LTA and KFI.
Figure 23 Figure 23. Connection mode of the lta-cages in the RHO, KFI and LTA structures. Adapted from ref (127). The lta-cages in LTA also connect via sharing 8MRs (not shown, see e.g., Figure 22).
Figure 24 Figure 24. Four first members of the RHO family and the tiles to construct them. Figure adapted with permission, from ref (51). Copyright 2015, Nature Publishing group.Rho was discovered by replacing part of the NaOH in a typical LTA synthesis with CsOH, at about 0.12 Cs+/(Cs++Na+). This ratio needs to be somewhat precise as trace Cs+ leads to FAU contaminations, and too much Cs+ to CHA. The Cs+ is believed to direct the formation of the d8r units and thus the linking mode of the α-cages. The classic Rho recipes lead to Si/Al ratios near 2.9. (59,267) This recipe was recently confirmed as a starting point (Si/Al = 2.8) for a steaming study. (267) Burkett and Davis were the first to try 18-crown-6 ether (and 15-crown-5) in gels with Cs+ present and the Si/Al ratio at 5. (326) They noticed RHO formation and a small incorporation of the ether from weight analysis. Chatelain and co-workers systematically investigated this synthesis and noted excellent RHO formation in the presence of the ether, obtaining Si/Al ratios of around 4 (instead of <3 without) in gels with 0.36 Na/Si, 0.06 Cs/Si, and Si/Al 5 at 110 C. (327) The ether is occluded in about half of the lta-cages of RHO (two cages per unit cell). A perspective summarizes the use of macrocycles (oxa-, oxa-aza-, as well as pure aza- (N-containing) macrocycles) in the synthesis of microporous materials. (328) From an application point-of-view, it is interesting to note that OSDA-free Rho is known to be flexible and undergoes phase-changes with temperature, owing to the deformation of the 8MR windows, which diminishes the sorption capacity. The crown-ether-RHO had an increased sorption capacity, and no structural changes were noted. Typically, protonated Rho shrinks upon heating, and a gradual decrease of the unit cells a-parameter was recorded while heating from 30 to 250 C. The different behavior of the crown-ether RHO zeolite seems a direct consequence of the lower Al content. Recently, a new synthesis for RHO was presented by Liu et al. using the PDDAC cationic polymer, remarkably, in the absence of Cs+. (329) The polymer, already encountered here as growth-modifier for CHA (Figure 13) and mesoporogen for LTA, led to zeolite Rho, but with the classic Si/Al ratios of 2.8. (329) In 2017, Ke et al. reported a breakthrough synthesis for RHO-zeolites, as Si/Al ratios up to 8 were achieved. (330) The synthesis strategy consists of using a presynthesized complex made from a mixture with well-balanced Na+, Cs+, and 18-crown-6 ether ratios. This complex is said to be a supramolecular sandwich, where two ethers interact with one Cs+. The complex is hypothesized to stabilize the large α-cage of RHO during synthesis, and this was corroborated by TGA analysis, from which 2 ethers per cage were calculated. It is interesting to compare the Cs/ether ratios of this approach, around 0.45, to those in the work of Chatelain et al. where a value of 1.2, thus in excess of Cs+, is used. Clearly, this is crucial in the formation of the complex and the structure direction. Ke et al. also performed SCR with the new high-silica RHO zeolites (section 3.2).In 2015, the Hong, Zou, and Wright groups reported on a complex family of related zeolites with embedded isoreticular structures and expanding unit cells, based on RHO, and in a further expansion PAU. (51) While elucidating the structure of zeolite ZSM-25, patented back in 1981, they noticed the structural similarity of its strong reflections to those of PAU (Table 1) and RHO. ZSM-25, now framework code MWF, is an 1× expanded version of PAU, constructed from the same 7 tiles (colored tiles, see Figure 24), but with its a-parameter of the unit cell expanded by 10 Å. PAU itself is a doubly expanded version of RHO and the 1× expansion of a (so far not-synthesized) theoretical member of the family (RHO-G2, already predicted by Vaughan et al. in 1999 (54)). The first synthetic PAU, named ECR-18, was reported by Vaughan as well. PAU is a very intriguing structure, and it has a very high free volume of almost 50%. This derives from the fact that there are no smaller inaccessible cages (such as e.g., d6r) in the structure. The introduction of TEA (0.29/Si) in the K+/Na+ gel with Si/Al = 4.5 is essential, and the crystallization field is narrow. The product, having Si/Al of 3.6, shows interesting thermogravimetric analysis, as a distinction could be made between TEA degrading from pau-cages (also note pau-cages in KFI, Figure 19) and TEA from α-cages. The distinction was based on profiles of TEA-Rho and TEA-MER (merloinite), another 8MR zeolite built from pau-cages and d8r. (54) In an interesting side note, Camblor and co-workers reported a recipe for synthetic MER with increased Si/Al ratios (from 2 up to 3.8), by adding TEA to the K+-rich (Si/Al = 5) gels (the principle Barrer and Denny first put forward (131)). (465) Guo et al. clearly represented the expansion relation between RHO, PAU, and MWF (Figure 24), and based on this, they calculated even more complex members, PST-20 and PST-25 (not shown). The classic recipes for synthetic PAU and MWF both use a combination of TEA and Na+, while additionally K+ is used for PAU. Based on the increasing numbers of t-oto, t-gsm, and t-phi cages in the expanding series (Figure 24) and the fact that these cages are found in certain zeolites made with bivalent cations, the authors added alkaline earth cations to the mix. With Sr2+, a more complex member of the series was synthesized (PST-20, not shown). (51) Although rationalizing the needs of the different (secondary building units) cages/tiles in the structure in terms of stabilizing cations can thus be rewarding, one may not underestimate the role of trial and error in synthetic experimentation. The synthesis mechanism of PAU, MWF, and PST-20, in this isoreticular expansion series, was recently investigated. This leads to a hypothesis where nucleation starts with the construction of lta-cages and plg-tiles, that connect via shared 8MRs along the diagonals of the cubic unit cell. This is then followed by the stepwise construction of the remaining tiles in Figure 24 (right), with the exception of pau and d8r, which form in the end, along the edges of the cubic cell. (331) In conclusion, given the interest in high-silica RHO from a catalysis point-of-view (section 3.2, i.e., methylamine synthesis, SCR, (330) MTO (267)), its synthesis should be revisited, in the search for zeolites with Si/Al ratios in excess of 8. Although this upper barrier has only recently been moved, further progress, e.g., along the lines of stabilizing the lta-cage in high-silica LTA materials, seems plausible, especially considering the absence of d4r units in the structure.
2.3.11. RTH
The RTH framework was discovered as a borosilicate (RUB-13) by Gies and co-workers using polymethylated piperidine and ethylenediamine. Lee and Zones reported a complex OSDA that directed the synthesis toward aluminosilicate RTH zeolites in a range of gels with large Si/Al variation (15 to pure-silica). The organic cation N-ethyl-N-methyl-5,7,7-trimethylazoniumbicyclo-[4.1.1]octane (Figure 25, left) showed a high specificity for RTH, and subtle changes to the substitutions on the ring altered the product selectivity. The resulting Si/Al ratios of the materials, named SSZ-50, were not divulged but likely evolved in trend with the gels. (62) Tatsumi and co-workers later reported an organic-free method for zeolitic RTH, by seeding deboronated RUB-13 and carefully tuning water and NaOH content. (121,332) This route is quite unique in the fact that high-silica materials were obtained (Si/Al = 3757), an uncommon result for this kind of organic-free, seeding synthesis (e.g., see 12MR BEA literature).
Figure 25 Figure 25. Reported OSDAs for RTH zeolites. Molecular modeling data adapted from ref (136). The right modeling result involves 2 OSDAs per cage.
Schmidt et al. recently reported a new OSDA-route for RTH, in both hydroxide and fluoride media in 2014 (method C and F, Table 3). (169) The relatively simple OSDA is pentamethylimidazolium (Figure 25), known previously to lead to pure-silica STW in fluoride media. (333) The organic leads to RTH materials with Si/Al ratios varying between 6 and 59 in hydroxide gels and 727 in fluoride media. Quite uncommonly, the most siliceous materials were obtained in hydroxide media. In a further expansion of the work, Schmidt reported a range of imidazolium cations (Figure 25) that also lead to RTH. (136) Although no widening of the Si/Al range with this library was reported, some synthesis recipes were interesting, as they use an ultrastable Y (USY) zeolite as the only source of T atoms (a FAU IZC). A FAU zeolite with a Si/Al ratio of 15 led to different RTH-zeolites (Si/Al = 914) in the presence or absence of seeds, with some of the imidazoliums, and exclusively either with or without seeding for others. The library of cations could be useful, as some of these are certainly cheaper to produce than others. From a synthesis point of view, the pentamethylated one proved the most versatile in terms of inorganic conditions. This was also confirmed by calculating and comparing the interaction energies of the organics with RTH (based on 4 OSDAs per unit cell, or two per cage): the pentamethylimidazolium attained the most favorable, lowest value of 20 kJ molT atom1. This compared positively to the original SSZ-50 OSDA, that attained values of only 11 kJ molT atom1. Figure 25 shows the modeled positions of both OSDAs in the cage of RTH (cage also seen in Figure 7).
Very recently, Jo et al. also reported on the use of the 1,2,3-trimethylimidazolium OSDA for RTH synthesis (included in Figure 25), in somewhat different conditions and in the context of deNOx and CO2 sorption. (324) The material only formed in gels with Si/Al ratio of 10 (or somewhat lower) and, in contrast to the Schmidt data, did not form when seeds were added to higher silica syntheses. This difference could derive from the use of different sources, as Schmidt used mesoporous FAU zeolites at higher Si/Al ratios. (136) The authors also presented evidence in favor of 2 OSDAs per cage, and they even investigated the arrangement of the cations through Rietveld refinement. It was concluded that the rings of both ions reside in the cage parallel to each other, with the three methyl groups pointing to opposite directions of the parallel axis. (324) It should be noted however that the pentamethylated version (Figure 25) also easily incorporates (likely) in a pair, not to say there can be no favored arrangement when two trimethylated imidazoliums are present.
Finally, the Davis group reported an unexpected discovery, when Schmidt et al. noticed a layered precursor during a pure-silica attempt at HEU synthesis in fluoride media using a diquaternary OSDA (Figure 26). (334) They discovered the pure-silica RTH-layer: the first 2D-layer with small pores (8MR) perpendicular to the surface of the layer (Figure 26). The layers are only half a unit cell thick, and since the 8MR pore-system is already present before topotactic condensation, the layered material could be interesting on its own for application. The distance between the layers is 11.8 Å, similar to the RUB-36 materials (Figures 6 and 26).
Figure 26 Figure 26. Topotactic conversion of the RTH layer to pure silica RTH. Based on work of Schmidt et al. (174) The synthesis of RTH is a case worth studying, not only because of its interesting features for application (unique cage), but especially because it is a zeolite with a wide compositional flexibility in terms of Al-incorporation, perhaps related to its 5MRs. The fact that it can be made with Si/Al ratios in the sub-10 range as well as in pure-silica form is encouraging. (169) This indicates that there might be opportunities for new zeolite formation in gels with Si/Al ratios between 5 and 30, given that the structural influence of Al-cations is diminished in that range relative to the low silica-gels (that easily favor e.g., LTA, RHO, KFI). Moreover, since the unveiling of the easy pentamethylimidazolium route to RTH and the unique RTH-layer, the opportunities to tailor RTH to application, with heteroatoms for example, are ample. (174)
2.4. Summary Points of Zeolite Synthesis and Its Mechanisms
From the survey of 8MR syntheses presented, there are a number of points that merit discussion:(1) It is remarkable that certain zeolites have not yet been synthesized over a wider range of Si/Al ratios (cf. ranges in Table 3), particularly given their interesting cage structure for applications, e.g., MTO (section 3.4). Especially high Si/Al ratios seem to be elusive for a lot of 8MR zeolites (e.g., >8 for RHO, >5 for KFI), although the four pure-silica sieves from Table 1 have not yet been reported with aluminum either. Obviously, there are multiple explanations for this observation including the argument that not enough trials were conducted or no suitable OSDA has been identified. Another main reason is probably due to a structure-induced lower limit to Al-incorporation (i.e., a maximum Si/Al), dictated by strain in small cages, composite building blocks, or simply 4MR, 5MR, and 6MRs. The role of d4r in LTA synthesis is a good example (see 2.3.9.4). It is very likely that on top of structure-direction by alkali and cage-stabilization effects, this strain, and similar structure-related effects, have a real contribution in the overall thermodynamics or kinetics of phase-formation.
In this context, the computational energy analysis of aluminosilicate zeolites across a wide range of frameworks and Si/Al ratios, by Okubo and co-workers, is highly relevant. (335) First, the work found similar linear relationships between framework energies and their T atom density, compared to previous pure-silica computation. More interesting in this context was the comparison of relative framework energies of different Si/Al ratios (1, 3, 7, 15, 31, ) within one zeolite topology (as well as 10 different Al-distributions, i.e. where does Al sit, for Si/Al 3, 7, 15 and 31). The data set suggests that the relative thermodynamic stability and the existence of preferential Al-sites rely not only on topology but also on composition (Al-content). For a given framework, an energetically favorable Si/Al ratio, e.g., 3 for LEV (see Figure 27B), is calculated. Note that these calculations assume proton countercations, rendering it more likely that these energy differences arise intrinsically from the structure. Other examples include MFI, where Si/Al = 31 and pure-silica were most favorable, while for FAU, Si/Al = 3 was lowest in energy. For 8MR zeolites CHA, KFI, LTA, RHO, and RTH minima (the means) were found at Si/Al = 1, 31, 3, 1, and 31, respectively. Comparing CHA and KFI, both can be exclusively built from d6r units, revealing that the energy analysis is very different. LTA, RHO, and KFI, all containing α-cages, also differ substantially. The Al-deficient optimum for RTH can be rationalized from its 5MR-content, as such zeolites are often more siliceous and the lowest Si/Al for RTH found synthetically is indeed 6. It is difficult to link the analysis for KFI to synthesis results, as the highest Si/Al ratio accessible is around 4. The use of OSDAs and/or small alkali cations that direct zeolite formation in real syntheses, where metastable intermediates or end-products are often kinetically controlled, renders comparison of synthesis outcomes to the calculations with H+ countercations difficult. However, the data can suggest an equilibrium zeolite product and provide some energetic clues into a zeolites formation with certain Al-content. Of course, for those topologies for which they exist, the Al-content of natural minerals could be used in the same manner, i.e. thermodynamic minima in the presence of inorganic cations and time. Synthetic zeolites with high content of OSDA, such as SSZ-13, and most cage-containing small-pore zeolites are stabilized differently.
(2) It is clear that the synthesis of most, if not all, catalysis-relevant 8MR zeolites proceeds through the use of an OSDA to access higher Si/Al ratios, e.g., Figure 27A in OH media for LEV (Method C in Table 2). Properties of good OSDAs have been documented. (336,337) The Si/Al ratio via geomimicking and alkali-cation approaches in hydroxide media is always limited (method A, B). OSDAs are also crucial in the CDM approach, in F-media (method E, F), as well as in all relevant IZC syntheses (i.e., not highly alkaline IZC, method D). The rare cases where OSDA-free syntheses lead to products with intermediate Si/Al ratios (e.g., 510) always rely on large additions of seeds made via OSDA-routes.
It is obvious that the synthesis of a zeolite with an OSDA relies on the space-filling interaction between the organic and the framework, which translates to fitting in the cage for most small-pore zeolites (Figure 7). Furthermore, the OSDAs for 8MR zeolites are mostly charged (quaternary ammonium, phosphonium), with the exception of a couple of pH-dependent amines, and this positive charge needs to be balanced, during synthesis, either with framework charge based on isomorphic Al-substitution or a siloxy-defect, or a free F-anion. The Si/Al range of the product is thus influenced by the OSDA in two ways: (i) the OSDA/framework energy and (ii) the overall charge balance that needs to be neutral. The first, experimentally, shows that OSDAs with a really good space-fit (often confirmed from pure-silica molecular modeling) allow for a broad range of Si/Al products within one topology. Two examples here are ADAM for CHA and pentamethylimidazolium for RTH (two per cage); the latter e.g. allows for Si/Al = 659 products in hydroxide media. Whether or not these molecules are true templates is up to the reader, (338) but bear in mind that ADAM can also lead to AFI and STT, e.g. when inorganic conditions change or overrule the organic stabilization. Generally, excellent fits between OSDAs and cages can be identified if the organic can direct to a given topology in both OH and F-media. The charge balance (ii) entails that if a charged OSDA is occluded in a cage, in OH-media, at least one aluminum should result in the unit cell, per (organic-capable) cage. Lower Al-incorporation should not be possible unless silicon based defects are built-in, while lower Si/Al ratios are possible only when other smaller cations (TMA or Na+) are coincorporated.
(3) Based on charge balancing and counting the atoms surrounding a cage, it should be possible to predict an ideal (maximum) Si/Al ratio for which no siloxy defects are needed, for every cage-based zeolite-framework made in hydroxide media and with organic cations occluded in the cages. This defect-free ratio has been calculated for CHA, AEI, and LEV above and is illustrated in Figure 27C for LEV. To what extent the formation of a zeolite and more specifically its Al-content is influenced by the absence or presence of defects in a given OSDA/zeolite/Si/Al system remains unknown. The effect could be both thermodynamically, e.g., certain defects produce less or more strain on the lattice, or kinetically driven; that is, their rate of formation could be different as for example defect-sites require less condensation reactions, or it could be driven by both. It is interesting to note that certain zeolites have ordered defects, e.g., pure silica ITQ-39 (-ITN). (339) (4) The prior analysis, predicting an optimal Si/Al in the absence of smaller cations and defects, and the properties of an excellent OSDA, able to lead to high Si/Al ratios, imply that syntheses direction by a well-fitting organic overrule constraints by defect formation. OSDAs that fit less well, e.g. N,N,3,5-tetramethylpiperidinium for AEI (Figure 9) or MeQ for LEV (Figure 27), do not allow free choice of the Al-content in the product. Strikingly, the Si/Al ratios of different syntheses along these lines end up near the one predicted from cage-counts (e.g., Table 4, Table 6). This infers that defect formation in the synthesis of cage-containing zeolites with organics is indeed further away from the equilibrium. In these kinds of synthesis, the inorganic constituents and external conditions play a larger role, such as for instance the starting inorganic T atom sources, temperature, and agitation. Interzeolite conversion and the CDM approach (Table 2, method D, E), often leading to new recipes for existing zeolites with organics that do not perfectly fit a given cage, fortify this point. Examples of IZC in this case are the use of TEA for CHA, choline for LEV, and most AEI syntheses, while CDM examples include LTA and ERI. Effectively, this means that it can still be rewarding to explore common or reported OSDAs in unusual conditions. Unusual here could be related to the content and stoichiometry of the recipe, e.g., two cations cooperating (CDM); the source of T atoms (e.g., zeolite), or the external conditions (flow, ...). (210) Exemplary here is the discovery of 12MR-zeolite GME with the same OSDA as that for AEI with conditions only differing in water content (Figure 9). (33) (5) In light of constructing 8MR zeolites, the work by Hong and co-workers on the mechanism of formation of LTA, (297,298) UFI, (72) LEV, and CHA (340) sheds an interesting perspective. Through the use of time-resolved multinuclear liquid and solid-state NMR, and other techniques, the authors propose that the large cages of these structures form first, with OSDA incorporated (e.g., α-cage for UFI and LTA; cha-cage; lev-cage), before they connect through smaller units, e.g. d6r or shared 8MRs. For LEV, the linking of lev-cages is hypothesized to occur in pairs by sharing an 8MR, before these pairs in turn link together forming the d6r and the LEV framework (center in Figure 27). Although plausible, these studies focus on one composition and fixed conditions. The influence of the starting Si/Al ratio on these mechanisms would be interesting in light of the predicted optimal Si/Al ratios deduced from charge/cage counts (e.g., 8 for LEV). If the synthesis of cage-based small-pore zeolites begins with the construction of the large OSDA-precluded cages, rather than smaller building blocks, focus should be put on the charge balance. We surmise here that such a scenario would favor the incorporation of one Al-per cage, maximum Al-dispersion (isolation rather than pairing), and Si/Al ratios near or below the optimum from cage-counts. Extending these studies with Si/Al variation, as well as different inorganic sources, might yield clues into the Si/Al question.
(6) Interzeolite conversion is a relatively unexplored route for zeolite synthesis. Many aspects of IZC remain unclear, because the crystalline source material can interact with all constituents of the synthesis mixture in more than one way. The solgel mechanisms likely do not occur in a lot of IZCs. Even though poorly understood, the trial and error approach has yielded good results, and the benefits of the IZC route should be generally accepted by now. The nanoparts idea remains a hypothesis, and if proven, will likely be very conditional and framework specific. Two major types of IZC can be distinguished, those with very high alkaline cation concentrations (OSDA-free) and those with OSDA, and a lot less mineralizing power. The latter are considered true IZC, since in the case of the former (e.g., FAU to ABW, CHA, MER, ANA), (223) the zeolite likely only functions as T atom source that completely breaks down, and no clear benefits of using the zeolite in terms of phase selectivity exist. True IZC, and everything in between, uses lower OH/Si ratios and OSDAs, often to yield surprising results.
(7) Fluoride media syntheses (Route F, Table 2) are not really on the forefront in 8MR zeolites, except in a couple of case where pure silica or very high Si/Al ratios are desired (Table 3). The exception is LTA, where two breakthroughs, leading to catalytic innovation (see section 3.2), rely on F: the supramolecular complex and the DM3(4MB) syntheses. F is needed to stabilize the siliceous d4r units. Few 8MR zeolites have a high hydrophobicity, since few have been made in the very high Si/Al range (e.g., 100+) and/or can be made according to a fluoride route. Striking counterexamples are the synthesis of EEI, DDR, and CHA, possible in high Si/Al ratios, in OH-media (Figure 1, Table 3). The not-straightforward translation of OSDA effects from OH- to F-media, and vice versa, can be partially explained by the charge/cage perspective. Since F anions can neutralize the OSDA charge locally, pure silica nets can be formed defect-free (and more hydrophobic). Therefore, the (perceived) drive toward the ideal Al-content per unit cell from cage-counts is absent in fluoride media, and the space-filling role (i) of the OSDA is much more important. OSDAs with less tight fits (see above) often do not produce the zeolite in fluoride media. Although F-mediated syntheses are more challenging at the large scale, innovation surrounding Lewis acidic Sn-BEA zeolites is lowering industrial barriers for zeolites to come. (341) (8) Next to the Al-content discussion, a second important observation is the nonexistence of aluminosilicate versions of certain 8MR molecular sieves with interesting structures. The ABC-6 molecular sieves AFT and SAT or the d6r-only SAV-structure are examples. For germanosilicates, the reason is often the increased stability of structural units (4MR) due to Ge-inclusion in the ring (in fluoride media). These positive effects do not occur in aluminosilicate formation. Why certain AlPO4 and SAPO-sieves have not translated to aluminosilicate versions is more difficult to understand. Why do OSDAs for many (M)A(l)PO syntheses never direct the corresponding zeolite? Differences in mechanisms of structure-direction at acidic (AlPO) vs basic (zeolite) synthesis conditions could be one reason. For one, the use of charged amines (due to neutral/acidic pH and amine pKa values near 10) in AlPO synthesis does not translate easily to zeolitic OH-media, since the highly basic mineralizing environment renders the amines neutral. It thus seems that the charge of the OSDA outweighs its space-filling role in a lot of (M)A(l)PO syntheses.
Figure 27 Figure 27. Summary of synthesis considerations for cage-containing small-pore zeolites in terms of product Si/Al ratios, illustrated here for LEV, tentatively shown here defect-free with MeQ incorporated in each of its cages and Al represented by a green dot. (A) OSDAs are always crucial to attaining high Si/Al ratios. (B) Energy analysis for LEV: the bold bar inside the box indicates the median, while the diamond indicates the mean. Plot reproduced with permission from ref (335). Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. (C) Calculation of optimal Si/Al for a given zeolite in OH-media synthesis with quaternary ammoniums based on the number of OSDAs per cage (TGA, elemental analysis), T atoms per cage, and cages per unit cell. (D) Some experimental Si/Al ratios for LEV. (E) Role of IZC to LEV and its Si/Al ratios.
3. Catalysis with 8MR Zeolites
3.1. Introduction
As outlined in section 1.3, small-pore zeolites have been commercialized for a number of applications. Here, a concise overview of the key catalytic reactions where small-pore zeolites show promise or have been commercialized is presented. These applications are exhaust cleaning, partial oxidation of methane, olefin generation (MTO and ethylene/ethanol conversion), and methylamine synthesis. Additionally, a brief overview of a few other reactions is provided at the end of this section. Unlike section 2, this section does not provide an exhaustive discussion for every reaction and its mechanism but rather highlights the specific issues when using different small-pore zeolites and pinpoints recognized, structureactivity relations. For more details on each topic, the reader is referred to reaction-specific and detailed existing reviews in every subsection. Note that zeotypes such as SAPOs are often also used for these reactions but are deliberately not discussed here, in order to keep the focus on aluminosilicates.
3.2. Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR or deNOx) for Exhaust Cleaning
3.2.1. Introduction to SCR and General Features of SCR with Zeolites
In the 1980s, Iwamoto et al. discovered the high activity and stable performance of Cu2+-exchanged ZSM-5 (medium-pore MFI zeolite) for NO decomposition. (342) Since then, zeolite catalysts have been prominently featured in emission control literature, and the SCR of NOx with ammonia (or urea) is now one of the dominant technologies. The term deNOx, often used to refer to SCR, suggests that both NO and NO2 can be present in exhaust gases, and both need remediation. The largest fraction in diesel exhaust is NO, thus leading to the most standard chemical reaction of SCR (seen in Figure 2), converting NO into N2 and H2O, with the aid of the ammonia reductant and O2. (343) Oxygen-gas free versions can also be written, e.g., when NO2 is present in significant amounts and 4NO + O2 is replaced with 2NO + 2NO2 in Figure 2. This is also known as the fast SCR reaction. (344) Cu-ZSM-5 (MFI) has been at the forefront since the beginning, although its low hydrothermal stability above 700 C (in the presence of steam), its lower activity in the lower temperature region, as well as its tendency to hydrocarbon adsorption (fouling), has motivated the search for more stable zeolite hosts. Small-pore zeolites (4,55) provide an answer here, as they inhibit larger hydrocarbons from entering the cages. Bull et al. reported SCR with Cu-SSZ-13, and they noted a comparably high SCR activity, a better hydrothermal stability, and less hydrocarbon poisoning than other Cu-zeolites tested before (large pore BEA, medium-pore MFI). (345) Others were also on this approach, (346) e.g., researchers at Ford. (103,347) Peden and co-workers demonstrated early on that the hydrothermally aged version of this catalyst outperforms BEA, MFI, and Y-zeolites. (348) A swift commercialization followed, and in 2010, Cu-SSZ-13 could be found as an emission control catalyst in on-road diesel automotive exhaust aftertreatment systems. (344) Cu-SSZ-13 based SCR is a genuine and inspiring success story of small-pore zeolite chemistry. Note that the classic gasoline engine aftertreatment system is based on the three-way catalysts in catalytic convertors and has been commercial for over 30 years (reducing CO, NO, and hydrocarbons). (100) This type of system does not work well on lean-burn engine operation, as is the case when oxygen/fuel ratios are high, e.g., in diesel vehicle engines, hence the need for Cu-zeolites or other catalytic systems for these situations. Cu-zeolites were preferred over V/Ti systems or Fe-zeolites, due to their lower dependence on feed gas NO2 for low temperature deNOx (fast vs standard SCR mentioned above). (103) The literature on SCR with Cu-SSZ-13 and Cu-SAPO-34 has grown large since 2010. A couple of recent review articles (95,100,344) clearly describe the state-of-the-art in this field. The mechanism of SCR, at the level of the active Cu-site, is not completely known. For the standard SCR, the role of the redox chemistry of copper is still under scrutiny. Paolucci et al. demonstrated that zeolites exchanged with isolated Cu2+, contain both Cu+ and Cu2+ ions during 200 C SCR. (349) A catalytic cycle based on their work is found in Figure 28, showing the 6MR (half of the d6r) of the CHA framework with two aluminum atoms across from each other (e.g., Figure 16).
Figure 28 Figure 28. Suggested cycle for Cu-SSZ-13 at 473 K in the standard SCR. The dotted line separates oxidized Cu (top) from reduced (bottom) halves of the redox cycle. Reproduced with permission from ref (349). Copyright 2014 Wiley.
Details of the mechanistic, kinetic, and cation-siting aspects of SCR based on Cu-SSZ-13 catalysts are not presented here, and the reader is referred to the above-mentioned reviews, as well as expert contributions. (133,350355) A recent review in this journal also focuses on converting N-containing exhaust gases with zeolites. (101) The next section provides an overview of the different 8MR zeolite hosts reported for SCR and compares the impact of topology vs CHA (Table 8). After that, selected synthesis-structureactivity relations are detailed.
Table 8. List of the 8MR-Framework Zeolites Tested in SCR of NOx with NH3 Practical numerical exampleb Top.a Material Si/Al M M/Al NO/NH3/H2Oc(ppm/D,W) T-range 90% NO conv. (C)d Rb Performancee remarks CHA SSZ-13 9.0 Cu 0.18 500/500/D F: 200500 (244) ++++ Commercial. Many reports. Excellent catalyst.
A: 200500
12 Cu 0.20 350/350/W F: 175550 (356)   Ad: above 80%, Figure 31.
Ad: - (Figure 31) 12 Fe 0.20 350/350/W F: 360500 (357) +++ See Figure 31.
A: -
AEI SSZ-39 9.1 Cu 0.32 500/530/W F: 270550 (181) ++++ A Cu-SSZ-13 under same aging, was less stable
A: 220450
8.0 Fe 0.1 50/60/W F: 350550 (358) +++ one-pot synth has good aged activity
F: 400500
AFX SSZ-16 4.5 Cu 0.23 500/500/D F: 200500 (244) +++ Good SCR, decent aging
A: 200400
5.2 Fe 0.1 50/60/W F: 550 (198) ++ Removal of Na+ needed
A: n.r.
DDR Sigma-1 16 Cu 0.14 500/500/D F,A: 300350 (244) + A worse than F, but max = ERIf -f 5.2 Cu 0.3h 500/530/W F: 500550 (198) + A: max 45% at 300 C
A: -
5.2 Fe 0.1 50/60/W F: - + F: max 65% at 500 C
A: n.r.
KFI ZK-5 4g Cu 0.38 500/500/W F: 250500 (359) +++ Cu/Al in aging important
A: 300450
LEV Nu-3 8 Cu 0.08 500/500/D F: 250400 (244) ++ A worse than F, but max =
A: 250300
LTA   16 Cu 0.58 500/500/W F: 260475 (172) ++++ Aged at 750 C
A: 275500
RHO   7 Cu 0.1i 500/500/W F: 250500 (330) / Too few data to judge
A: n.r.
RTH SSZ-50 10 Cu n.r. 500/500/W F: 200430 (324) ++ A: max 70% at 360 C
A: -
UFI PST-7 11 Cu 0.44 500/500/W F: 260500 (172) ++ A condition same as LTA. 70% at 330 C
A: -
aTop. = topology. bR = reference. The table is by no means complete and entries were selected for allowing the broadest, most accurate comparison. cD points to dry reactant flows, W, points to deliberately adding H2O to the SCR feedstock (wet, realistic). O2 is also present. dRange where NO conversion in standard SCR is still 90%, often estimated from graphs with connected data points. F indicates fresh catalyst, while A means after hydrothermal aging (high T steaming, often different conditions). - indicates that conversion was always below 90%, see remarks column. n.r.: not reported. ePerformance relative vs all entries and benchmark SSZ-13. fERI/OFF intergrowth known as ZSM-34 also patented for SCR; see ref (360). Erionite would not be an accurate material name here. g3.7 from synthesis, after Cu procedure and calcination, 4.2. hEstimated for 2.8 wt %. iEstimate.
3.2.2. Overview of Small-Pore Zeolite Catalysts for SCR of NOx
Assessing SCR activity often seeks to find the range of temperature where conversion is close to 100% (Table 8), and working conditions resemble those of an exhaust (wet). Generally, a N2-balance stream, rich in O2 (e.g., 514%) containing some water (e.g., 210%, labeled as W, wet conditions, vs D, dry) and a couple of 100 ppms of NO and NH3, is used as reactants (often 500 ppm of both). Selectivity is also important, as NO2 and N2O have to be avoided in favor of N2. Cu-SSZ-13 leads to significantly less N2O and NO2 (e.g., less than 5 and 10 ppm, respectively, over the entire temperature range (T-range), on 350 ppm of NO feedstock) than Cu-beta and Cu-ZSM-5. (348)
3.2.3. Cu-Zeolite Catalyzed SCR: The Impact of Topology
After performing a Cu-cation siting study for both zeolites, (196) CHA and AFX were investigated thoroughly by Fickel et al., noting that both were excellent catalysts when compared to ZSM-5. (244) Different behavior for SCR is mostly found after a hydrothermal treatment (e.g., 750 C, 5% water feed). There, Cu-SSZ-13 and Cu-SSZ-16 excelled versus Cu-ZSM-5, but also between them, differences were notable: while the CHA zeolite still performed near identical SCR, the AFX material loses its activity at temperatures over 350 C. In the same study, LEV and DDR-zeolites were assessed, but these had lower activity (especially DDR), evidenced from the operation window in Table 8. The authors concluded that the dimensionality of DDR and LEV (2D) was likely to blame for the reduced SCR activity. Furthermore, it was suggested that during the dealumination process, under hydrothermal aging, Al(OH)3, with an estimated 0.5 nm diameter, needs to exit the framework in order to cause structural trouble. Small-pore windows, such as those constricting CHA and AFX cages, prevent this, and thus Al-species stay inside the pore where they were originally dislocated. At lower temperatures, realumination could occur. (244) A further finding by Chen and co-workers noted that for large pore BEA, a destructive Cu/Al2O3 interaction induces framework collapse above 800 C, but this interaction is minimized by pore-size in CHA. (2,361) Evidenced from the fact that since 2010 about 200 publications have been reported containing the term Cu-SSZ-13 in a topic search (Web of Science, 10/10/2017), remarkable focus has been placed in the catalytic community on SCR with the CHA-zeolite. It is worth noting that a typical commercial sample has a Si/Al ratio around 17 and a Cu loading of 2.8 wt % (BASF), corresponding to a Cu/Al ratio of 0.5, or, charge-based at least, stoichiometric exchange. (362) A truly excellent SCR topology was identified by Moliner et al.; AEI. SSZ-39 proved to have an good activity over a broad T-range and a very high hydrothermal stability. (181) In their study, a comparison to a SSZ-13 with higher Si/Al = 12 and similar Cu-loading clearly showed the benefit of SSZ-39. The stability of SSZ-39 in hydrothermal steaming conditions was also verified later by Dusselier et al. in an MTO study (section 3.4) where dealumination by steaming was pursued (and in the presence of Cu2+, the framework held up well). (179) The second SCR study for AEI was conducted on IZC materials made with the tetraethylphosphonium OSDA from the Sano group, compared to the N-based DEDMP cation (Table 4 entries 67). Although NO conversion was lower for the P-zeolites, the thermal stability of the Cu-free hosts in calcination was a bit better for the P-containing materials. After hydrothermal steaming, the P-based zeolite also seemed to have an increased NO-conversion (for P/Al = 0.2, e.g.), while that of the more classic material decreased a little, although these steaming times were short (1 and 4 h at 900 C). The NO conversion however decreased with increasing P/Al ratio, suggesting that only a small amount of P-modification could be beneficial. (183) A similar effect (small amount of P-modification from synthesis, not postsynthesis) was observed for the dual-template AEI (Table 4 entry 13). (187) Martn et al. reported SCR on their SSZ-39 made with their efficient IZC synthesis method using N,N-dimethyl-3,5-dimethylpiperidinium (Table 4, entry 12) and compared them to the P-containing OSDA materials and an SSZ-39 prepared with both the piperidinium and Cu-tetraethylenepentamine (Cu-TEPA) present. (186) The latter is known as a one-pot-approach that allows the loading of Cu in situ during synthesis. Here, the P-containing material underperformed versus the others, and a lower hydrothermal stability was noted for the P-based material after steaming at 750 C. The P-content of the material here however was not reported. The two other Cu-SSZ-39 materials were stable during steaming (from PXRD) and behaved similarly, i.e., excellent SCR (e.g., at 500/500/W, F: 250490 C and A: 260450 C, for the postsynthetic N,N-dimethyl-3,5-dimethylpiperidinium based zeolite, compared to Table 8).
RTH, assessed by Jo et al., showed a good fresh performance, but this activity did not stay after hydrothermal aging. (324) Gounder and co-workers investigated the kinetic and structural changes after SCR on AEI, CHA, and RTH zeolites. (363) When comparing rates, in standard SCR (Cu, 250 C), AEI and CHA performed similarly, before and after aging. RTH, however, had 23× lower rates and zero activity after hydrothermal aging. After aging, the RTH framework is still intact (XRD) and porous (physisorption), inferring that the structural changes for the worse happen to the Cu-sites. The study thus confirms the positive role of d6r containing zeolites in terms of protecting the active Cu species during hydrothermal aging. Furthermore, the lower fresh activity for SCR in RTH is likely caused by the 2D nature of its pore system with constrained, asymmetric 8MR windows. These likely limit access, rendering the RTH framework to behave as a 1D SCR catalyst.
Martn et al. tested new IZC routes to ERI and AFX based on large dicationic OSDAs, in both Cu and Fe-forms. Notably, ERI was not a good SCR catalyst, as high-temperatures were needed for the fresh catalyst and aging deteriorated the performance heavily. (198) AFX had already been studied by Fickel et al., but not in wet conditions. At 500/530/W (compared to Table 8), the fresh Cu-SSZ-16 catalyst achieved over 90% NO conversion in a temperature range from 350 to 550 C, while the aged zeolite only went up to 80% at 300350 C. The difference with the dry SCR data from Table 8 logically suggests that deNOx under more realistic, wet conditions is more difficult for AFX, although comparing across reports is difficult (Cu-loading, GHSV, ...).
Zeolites containing the large lta-cavity were also studied for SCR, by different groups (KFI, RHO, UFI, LTA). The team of Hong and co-workers assessed both UFI and LTA frameworks, made with benzylimidazolium-based cations (e.g., Table 7, Entries 1013 for synthesis and Table 8 for SCR data). (172) Especially LTA stood out, and high activity was found initially and retained after hydrothermal aging tests up to 750 C. At 850 C, activity was mostly gone, but this was true for benchmark CHA and MFI as well. A direct comparison to SSZ-13 with the same Si/Al ratio, after 750 C aging, showed a clear pattern of LTA outperforming CHA. The authors continued their work and found that for a perfectly exchanged LTA-zeolite, even better stability and SCR activity after aging occurred. Figure 29 compares data from different LTA and CHA zeolites, before and after a severe 900 C aging. The severity of the aging is known to destroy a lot of the SSZ-13 activity. Yet, LTA, with the right amount of Cu, is highly stable. This is likely the best hydrothermal aged SCR catalyst reported to date. Figure 29, part a, shows that having an overexchange, e.g., Cu/Al of 0.65, is deleterious for the SCR performance of the LTA after the high-temperature aging. Yet, values close to 0.40.5 Cu/Al, render LTA zeolites stable against aging and still highly performing from 250 to 550 C. The most stable SSZ-13 material tested (series b, Figure, 29) has a lower Cu/Al ratio (of 0.15), rather than a higher. For SSZ-13, it was already known that higher Cu/Al ratios are not always optimal for surviving the aging, as for example Cu/Al 0.28 vs 0.35 already caused a large difference after aging in the dry SCR runs by Fickel et al. on Si/Al = 6 materials. (244) The optimal SSZ-13 catalyst fails to attain even 50% of NO conversion after high temperature aging. Finally, three different Si/Al ratios of LTA, with optimal exchange near 0.5 were tested as well, clearly showing that the improved SCR effect only holds true for the least aluminous materials (Si/Al = 16 and 23, Figure 29c). Rietveld refinement indicated that Cu2+ ions were located only at the center of single-6MR, and it was surmised that they serve not only as active center but also as a dealumination suppressor. (364) Figure 29 Figure 29. Performance in SCR for Cu-LTA, compared to Cu-SSZ-13. NO conversion as a function of temperature over the (left) fresh and (right) 900 C-aged forms of: (a) Cu-LTA-16-0.14 (square), Cu-LTA-16-0.32 (dot), Cu-LTA-16-0.48 (triangle) and Cu-LTA-16-0.65 (rhombus). (b) Cu-SSZ-13-16-0.15 (green), Cu-SSZ-13-16-0.34 (brown), and Cu-SSZ-13-16-0.49 (red). (c) Again Cu-LTA-16-0.48 (red triangle), this time with Cu-LTA-11-0.48 (green), Cu-LTA-23-0.50 (blue). Reaction conditions: 500/500/W, (as in Table 8), while hydrothermal aging was performed under flowing air containing 10% H2O at 900 C for 12 h. The last two values of the catalyst identification correspond to the Si/Al and Cu/Al ratios of the catalysts, respectively. Adapted with permission from ref (364). Copyright 2017 Wiley.
Interestingly, the low temperature SCR with Si/Al = 23 materials (thus with the least amount of Cu, see Figure 29 part c, blue, from left to right) improved upon aging, hinting at stabilization or relocation of low-temperature active sites during the aging, rendering them more active. The same authors studied this phenomenon in-depth, and they demonstrated that it originates from the migration of Cu+ ions present inside the sod-cages (against d4r windows) to vacant single-6MR during the hydrothermal aging (Figure 30). The sod-cages could be seen as a useful catalyst reservoir releasing active sites during SCR.
Figure 30 Figure 30. Cu-LTA SCR site proposal and catalytic conversions after aging (a) Structure of the fresh, dry Cu-LTA-23-0.50 catalyst with 2 different sites labeled as Cu(1) and Cu(2). Colors: red, O; blue, Cu; yellow, Si; Al is not represented in this figure. (b) Numbers of Cu ions at single-6MR () and Cu ions inside sod-cages () per unit cell of Cu-LTA-23-0.50 vs hydrothermal aging temperature. The NO conversions at 320 C (viz. dip in Figure 29c) of fresh and aged catalysts are given as a bar diagram. Reproduced with permission from ref (365). Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society.
Cu-KFI for SCR was patented by Reichinger et al.; (366) while recently, a thorough study was published by Kim et al. (359) Low temperature activity and decent performance are two excellent features of Cu-KFI. The aged performance was tested for two Cu-loadings, and the highest one prevailed (shown in Table 8). The report directly compared to SSZ-13, with the latter yielding a slightly better performance. However, one should keep in mind that this KFI-zeolite is made without OSDA and thus, potentially, very cheap. (359) Further testing in more stringent conditions, longer aging, and repeated cycles is due. The other lta-cage containing zeolite, RHO, has not been tested adequately. Cu-RHO was briefly tested for SCR by Ke et al., in the light of their new synthesis with the Cs-crown-ether complex leading to rho materials with higher Si/Al ratios. However, no aging experiments were given, rendering SCR assessment rather difficult. (330) Given the interesting findings of the Hong group for LTA, high Si/Al RHO zeolites could yield surprising results. Finally, of note is that a few of the small-pore zeolites, i.e., ERI, LEV, CHA, and DDR, were already included in the list of tested materials featured in a patent by Andersen et al. (2,346)
3.2.4. Fe-Zeolite Catalyzed SCR
The above discussion clearly highlights the extraordinary performance of CHA, AEI, LTA, and KFI-zeolites in copper-based SCR. A few of the 8MR zeolite materials have also been investigated using Fe cations as active centers, i.e., CHA, AEI, AFX, and ERI. Fe-SSZ-13 was assessed by Peden and co-workers. (357) Later, a comparison of reaction kinetics with Fe- and Cu-based zeolite was made. (356) Fresh Fe-SSZ-13 was on average less active than the Cu-version in standard SCR under wet conditions (see Figure 31 comparing both zeolites, in fresh and aged conditions). Although a serious drop in activity ensued for the Fe-version after aging, it interestingly retained more activity than the Cu-material above 500 C. A full discussion of Fe-species, their loading effects, and transformation, in SSZ-13, is found in further work by the Peden group. (367,368) Figure 31 Figure 31. Comparing Cu and Fe-SSZ-13 in standard, wet SCR before (fresh) and after hydrothermal aging. Conditions in inset. Adapted with permission from ref (356). Copyright 2015 Elsevier.
Fe-SSZ-39 was assessed by Martn et al. (entry in Table 8), and a one-pot method for introducing Fe into the small-pore material was presented. Ferric nitrate was added to the N,N-dimethyl-3,5-dimethylpiperidinium OSDA-based IZC synthesis. (358) The classic SSZ-39, postsynthetically exchanged via ferrous sulfate, was also compared, but it performed worse than the one-pot zeolite after aging. Clearly, the way of introducing Fe matters, especially since Fe needs to be carefully ion-exchanged. Fe-ERI and Fe-AFX were briefly looked into by Martn et al. as well (Table 8), but no aging was performed, and the feedstock ppm concentration of NO was low, compared to the work with Fe-SSZ-13. (198)
3.2.5. SynthesisStructureActivity Observations
Since the detailed study of SCR entails testing many different conditions (e.g., aging and hydrothermal stability), and the dynamic nature of the active site of the classic catalyst is still under elucidation, it is understandable that few true synthesisstructureactivity relations have been reported (opposed to for example MTO, see section 3.4). The greatest number of structureactivity relations has been detailed for Cu-SSZ-13, and the reader is referred to the above-mentioned reviews in this context. Not often do these studies rely on synthetic variation other than Si/Al ratios, that is easily varied in SSZ-13, and Cu-content (Cu/Al). (369) On the other hand, CHA zeolites made via new synthetic routes (e.g., see Table 5 or Figure 14), such as Corma and co-workers TEA-based (Si/Al = 8) material, (226) or the solvent-free CHA zeolite (Si/Al = 5) made with N,N,N-dimethylethylcyclohexylammonium (Figure 14) of the Xiao group, (212) are often tested in SCR, to see if the material can match the activity of a classic SSZ-13.
Interestingly, the way Cu (or Fe) is introduced into the zeolite can offer a synthetic challenge.
Beale and co-workers compared the classic ion-exchange route versus a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) based ion-exchange. (370) The latter is performed using a setup where precursor salt and zeolite are in close contact (glass-wool) and heated in an inert flow at 250 C. The CVD method yielded only half the Cu-loading as the classic wet exchange, and its SCR was abysmal. While the copper sites were found for the CVD material and they were like those obtained from ion exchangei.e., the Cu2+ center on the outside of the d6r subunits of the CHA structure (e.g., see Fickel et al., (196) but note that these are dry, nonworking condition coordinated species)a secondary inactive CuAlO2-like phase was present. Another solid-state ion-exchange method at higher temperature did yield active SCR catalysts. (371) The approach by Ren et al., concerning the use of a Cu-TEPA complex for directing CHA-synthesis, delivers Cu as active SCR site to the cages. (213) The SCR activity of the fresh sample on a 1000/1000/D feedstock was above 90% NO conversion in the zone of 175450 C, for a Si/Al ratio of 4 and, concomitantly, a high Cu-loading (9.5 wt %). The coupling between Cu loading and Si/Al through synthesis, in the first report, shows a reduced degree of freedom in choosing Cu and Al content separately. However, later, the group reported Cu-content control and better SCR features. (372) Martinez-Franco et al. followed in this path but combined ADAM with Cu-TEPA, that allowed more control over Si/Al and Cu/(Si+Al) ratios and obtained decent SCR performance and good hydrothermal stability. (372) Martn followed the same strategy for AEI, yielding one-pot Cu-SSZ-39, mentioned above. (186) In an interesting side-note, Yamada et al. focused on bead-milling SSZ-16 zeolites and then subjecting them to postmilling crystallization, rending <100 nm large crystals. These showed faster and more homogeneous (in the crystal) ion-exchange, due to accessibility, when subjected to Cu2+, but no SCR was reported. (373) The effect of morphology and particle sizes in SSZ-13 was investigated, following three modified synthesis procedures, based on ADAM as OSDA. (362) More classic >1 μm zeolites were compared to 450 and 260 nm sized particles. The latter, based on longer aging in the synthesis, already show mesoporosity in physisorption, deriving from interparticle adsorption. The SCR performance of the different-sized zeolites, with similar Si/Al and Cu/Al (0.15) ratios, was very similar. This is attributed to the extraordinary stability of the Cu ionframework Al pairs, against steaming, independent of particle size. This method could however help in depositing more Cu-SSZ-13 active species, on SCR setups based on wash-coated layers of zeolite upon a support. Access to thinner (from smaller zeolite particles), more active layers there could improve mass and heat transport.
Finally, a mesoporous SSZ-13 was studied, that was based on desilication by base leaching. Using the mildest leaching conditions (0.1 M NaOH), microporosity was somewhat reduced (0.36 to 0.23 cm3·g1), and mesopores were created (0.23 cm3.g1). Si/Al and Cu/Al ratios of this material and the parent (nondesilicated) were similar, but the treated materials showed a remarkable improvement in the low temperature SCR regime (1000/1000/D), e.g,. a 2-fold increase in NO conversion at 150 and 250 C (said to derive from improved accessibility). (374)
3.2.6. Conclusions from NH3SCR of NOx with 8MR Zeolites
Small-pore zeolites are essential to lean-burn diesel engine exhaust cleaning catalyst technology. Cu-SSZ-13 is already commercial, and its performance is linked to its excellent stability under hydrothermal conditions. Detailed studies to understand the full mechanistic aspects and catalytic cycle of this system are still published regularly. The discovery of the SSZ-13 zeolite (4) thus led to great progress in exhaust cleaning technology. The CHA zeolite is however made with ADAM, and this OSDA is quite costly. The excellent SCR performance has thus motivated researchers to look for alternative CHA synthesis recipes, and in turn brought great innovation in the synthesis field.
Apart from CHA, AEI is an excellent topology for SCR as well, and studies unraveling its performance are underway. Similarities in CHA and AEI performance and stability have led many to hypothesize that desirable properties are derived from the d6r-only nature of the frameworks. For the AFX zeolite, also d6r-only, decent SCR performance was noted. The effect of the size of the cavity, large in AFX, could be a topic of future research (this is for instance crucial in MTO chemistry, section 3.4.3). When considering the other d6r-only topology with related but even larger cavities (see Figure 10), i.e., SFW, interesting structureactivity relations could be unraveled. Synthetic access to SFW-zeolites is not straightforward, but recently a new route has been detailed. (66,137) At this time, an SCR study on SFW is lacking.
Finally, a very recent breakthrough in small-pore zeolite based SCR warrants a highlight. New synthetic access to LTA-zeolites with Si/Al ratios in the range of 1150 (135,172) has led to the discovery of an unprecedentedly active and stable SCR catalyst, based on full Cu exchange (Cu/Al 0.5) and a remarkable stability in steaming up to 900 C (Figure 29). The LTA framework lacks d6r units, but single-6MR are present, e.g., the faces of the sod-cavity, and these were found to be active cation hosting sites (centered in the single-6MR, inside the large lta-cavity). Furthermore, time will tell if the synthesis of this material is cost-effective (fluoride route) and a potential competitor for Cu-SSZ-13. It is worth noting that KFI, also constructed using only d6r building blocks, has lta-cages as well. A first SCR assessment proved to be promising, but synthetic access to KFI with Si/Al ratios significantly larger than 4 is lacking. This is remarkable given the fact that KFI (ZK-5) was the first synthetic zeolite (Barrer).
3.3. Partial Oxidation of Methane to Methanol
3.3.1. Introduction to Methane-to-Methanol with Transition Metal-Exchanged Zeolites
Panov et al. reported the decomposition of N2O at low temperature using Fe-exchanged ZSM-5 in 1990 with release of N2. The oxygen was deposited onto the catalyst to form a highly reactive oxygen-Fe. Subsequently contacting the oxidized material with methane at room temperature resulted in the production of an adsorbed methanol precursor. (375) Recently, the active Fe-site for this reaction was reported in the form of an α-FeII against a single-6-ring of for example BEA. (376) In 2005, Groothaert et al. documented the first activity for methane partial oxidation to methanol with O2 on Cu-zeolites. (106) The structure of the Cu-active complex was supposedly elucidated in 2009 by researchers in Stanford and Leuven. (377) The accepted catalytic cycle, featuring a dimeric copper species (mono(-μ-oxo-)-dicopper), is seen in Figure 32. After activation in O2, the active site is formed, which can then react with a subsequent feed of CH4. After stoichiometric reaction, a strongly adsorbed partially oxidized methane product is formed and the site is deactivated, requiring reactivation with O2. The adsorbed product can be recovered as methanol by liquid extraction or steaming. (378) A review by Vanelderen et al. points out the biomimetic links between such Cu-zeolites and Cu-methane monooxygenases. (105) Figure 32 Figure 32. Proposed reaction cycle on Cu-ZSM-5 for O2 activation and CH4 hydroxylation. Reproduced with permission from ref (378). Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
Besides MFI, a plethora of medium and large pore Cu-zeolites have been proposed for this reaction, notably MOR. (107,379) An overview on the coordination chemistry of copper in zeolite shows that Cu2+ preferentially coordinates in 6MR (as in some SCR-zeolites), with 1, 2, or 3 Al T atoms. (380) Some of these species then autoreduce under inert atmosphere at high temperature, to Cu+, before the reaction with O2 to form the active dimer (Figure 32).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the properties that make zeolites promising support materials for CO2-ODHP catalysts, and critically evaluate the various acidity modification techniques, such as dealumination and weakening methods. How do these modifications contribute to optimizing catalytic performance, and what are the key considerations in selecting and implementing these strategies for different types of zeolites used as supports?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 