<quotes>
Influence of boria loading on the acidity of B2O3/Al2O3 catalysts for the conversion of cyclohexanone oxime to caprolactam

Boron oxide catalysts supported on alumina have been prepared with boria loadings in the range 020 wt.-%.
These materials were characterized by B.E.T. surface area measurements, X-ray diffraction and temperature-programmed desorption of ammonia and were used as catalysts for the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to caprolactam by passing the oxime vapour through a reactor containing the catalysts at 300C.
The surface areas of the samples decreased as the boria loading was increased, and all catalysts tested for the rearrangement reaction diminished in activity with time-onstream.
There was a direct relationship between the amount of coke which formed on the surface and the loss in catalytic activity.
This loss was least for the highest boron oxide loading tested, and this catalyst also featured the least amount of coke formation.
Selectivity to caprolactam was associated with the presence of surface acidic sites of intermediate strength.
A correlation was observed between the concentration of these surface sites and the selectivity to caprolactam.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study indicates that the acidity of B2O3/Al2O3 catalysts, which affects their performance in converting cyclohexanone oxime to caprolactam, is influenced by the boria loading. As the boria loading increases, the surface areas of the catalysts decrease, leading to a decline in activity over time due to the formation of coke. The highest boron oxide loading tested showed the least coke formation and maintained the highest catalytic activity. Moreover, the presence of surface acidic sites of intermediate strength correlates with selectivity towards caprolactam production.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究表明，B2O3/Al2O3催化剂的酸性对其将环己酮肟转化为己内酰胺的性能有影响，这一酸性受到氧化硼负载的影响。随着氧化硼负载的增加，催化剂的表面积减小，导致随时间下降的活性，这是由于表面焦炭的形成。测试的最高氧化硼负载催化剂显示出最少的焦炭形成和最高的催化活性。此外，表面中等强度酸性位点的存在与对己内酰胺的选择性相关联。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
