<quotes>
The role of CO2 in the dehydrogenation of propane over WOxVOx/SiO2 Isabelle Ascoop a, Vladimir V. Galvita b,, Konstantinos Alexopoulos b, Marie-Franoise Reyniers b, Pascal Van Der Voort a, Vitaliy Bliznuk c, Guy B. Marin b a Department of Inorganic and Physical Chemistry, Center for Ordered Materials, Organometallics and Catalysis (COMOC), Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281-S3, 9000 Ghent, Belgium b Laboratory for Chemical Technology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 914, 9052 Ghent, Belgium c Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Ghent University, Technologiepark 903, 9052 Ghent, Belgium a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 5 November 2015 Revised 18 December 2015 Accepted 19 December 2015 Keywords: Propylene Oxidative dehydrogenation Reverse water gas shift Supported metal oxides
CO2 Reaction mechanism DFT a b s t r a c t A series of WOxVOx catalysts supported on porous silica, with W/V molar ratios between 0 and 0.6, are examined for propane dehydrogenation in the presence and absence of CO2 from 500 C to 600 C and at atmospheric pressure. Catalysts characterization using temperature programmed reduction (H2-TPR),temperature programmed oxidation (CO2-TPO), Raman spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy shows that the combination of the two metal components allows retention of VOx dispersion during the reaction.
CO2 has the ability to oxidize V2O3 to V2O4 and participates in the oxidative dehydrogenation of pro- pane to propylene. When the reaction is carried out with D2 present in the feed together with C3H8 and CO2 (D2:C3H8:CO2 = 1:1:1), only 45% of the resulting water contains D2O. This confirms that the reac- tion follows the oxidative dehydrogenation route of propane but is also accompanied by the reverse water gas shift reaction in combination with the non-oxidative dehydrogenation route. Moreover, one of the major roles of CO2 is the suppression of the formation of surface carbon. A partially reduced vana- dia dimer was used to represent the active site and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were per- formed. This allowed to confirm that propane dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 can proceed simultaneously via direct oxidative dehydrogenation and non-oxidative dehydrogenation followed by the reverse water gas shift reaction. According to the DFT-calculated Gibbs free energy profile at 600 C, the activation of the secondary CAH bond of propane (EDFT,act = 158 kJ/mol) is rate-limiting, while re-oxidation of the catalyst with CO2 is potentially much faster.
The catalyst with a W/V = 0.1 M ratio has the highest C3H6 average turnover frequency but higher selec- tivities were obtained with W/V = 0.6. In agreement with the value predicted from DFT, the experimental apparent activation energy for all investigated W/V ratios is similar and varies from 127  11 kJ/mol to 147  12 kJ/mol with W/V molar ratios between 0 and 0.6. 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
No relevant quotes found.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
没有找到相关引用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
