<quotes>

[1] "Differences in the concentration of the individual Fe species and acid sites were related to the activity and time-on-stream behavior of Fe-zeolites in decomposition of N2O and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene with N2O."
[2] "The presence of high concentration of Brnsted sites and large crystal size of FeH-ZSM-5 stimulated oligomerization of formed propene decreasing its yield and increasing retention of polyolefins up to polyaromatic coke."
[3] "As for low concentration of Lewis sites present, their contribution to oligomerization processes cannot be excluded."
[4] "It can be concluded that a clear and similar decrease in TOF of N2O decomposition and concentration of Fe(II) in cationic sites from FeH- to steamed Fe(H)-ZSM-5st zeolites (compared on evacuated samples), and an increased population of Fe(III)-oxo species,particularly of Td-coordinated Fe(III) (Tables 3 and 5) indicate that the most active sites for N2O decomposition are Fe(II) ions in cat- ionic sites coordinated to framework rings containing an Al pair."
[5] "Conversion of propane with N2O occurs through its hydroxyl- ation to propanol over an Fe(III)AO complex, followed by imme- diate dehydration to propene (Eq. (4)), which could be further transformed over acid sites to various oligomers, aromatics, and to low hydrocarbons by their cracking, and on redox Fe sites to var- ious oxygenates of polyolefins, and carbon oxides."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The activity and time-on-stream behavior of Fe-zeolites in decomposing N2O and oxidatively dehydrogenating propane to propene with N2O were linked to the concentration of individual iron species and acid sites.

2. High concentration of Brnsted sites and large crystal size in FeH-ZSM-5 facilitated the oligomerization of propene, which reduced its yield and increased the retention of polyolefins up to polyaromatic coke.

3. The contribution of low concentration of Lewis sites to oligomerization processes was acknowledged.

4. It was concluded that the most active sites for N2O decomposition in Fe-zeolites are the Fe(II) ions in cationic sites coordinated to framework rings containing an Al pair, after steaming.

5. The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with N2O proceeded through its hydroxylation to propanol over an Fe(III)AO complex, followed by immediate dehydration to propene. This propene could be further transformed to various oligomers, aromatics, and low hydrocarbons through cracking, and on redox Fe sites to various oxygenates of polyolefins, and carbon oxides.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 铁-沸石中单个铁物种和酸位的浓度与氮氧化物分解和丙烷在氮氧化物辅助下的氧化脱氢行为的活性和时间流行为有关联。

2. 高浓度的Brnsted位点和FeH-ZSM-5的大晶体尺寸促进了丙烯的聚合，这降低了其产量并增加了聚烯烃的保留，直至聚芳烃焦炭。

3. 认可了低浓度Lewis位点对聚合反应的贡献。

4. 结论是，经过蒸煮后，在沸石中分解氮氧化物最活跃的位点是框架环中含两个Al原子对的离子位点上的Fe(II)离子。

5. 丙烷与氮氧化物的氧化脱氢过程是通过丙烷的羟基化生成丙醇，然后立即脱水生成丙烯。生成的丙烯可以进一步转化为各种聚合物、芳香族化合物和低碳氢化合物，通过裂解，以及在还原性Fe位点上转化为各种聚烯烃的氧衍生物和二氧化碳。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
