<quotes>
300-500 is the temperature range used for the thermodynamic calculations of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2. The results highlight the enhanced potential of C3H8 as compared to its lighter and heavier homologues (C2H6 and C4H10, respectively).

The Gibbs Free Energy (ΔG) of each reaction in the modelled, complete reacting system of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 also indicate that further cracking of C3H6 will affect the ultimate yield and selectivity of the final products.

An increase in the C3H8 partial pressure produced an inhibition of C3H8 conversion but, importantly, a promising enhancement of C3H6 selectivity. This phenomenon can be attributed to competitive adsorption on the catalyst between the generated C3H6 and inactivated C3H8, which inhibits any further cracking effect on C3H6 to produce by-products.

The increase of the overall GHSV can also decrease the C3H8 conversion to a similar extent, but the further cracking of C3H6 cannot be limited.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The temperature range of 300-500 is utilized for the thermodynamic analysis of the dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of carbon dioxide. This range highlights the superior potential of propane compared to its lighter and heavier homologues, ethane (C2H6) and butane (C4H10), respectively. The Gibbs Free Energy (ΔG) calculations for each reaction in the modelled system indicate that further cracking of propene (C3H6) influences the final product yield and selectivity. An increase in propane partial pressure leads to a reduction in its conversion but simultaneously enhances the selectivity of propene. This occurs due to competitive adsorption on the catalyst between the produced propene and deactivated propane, preventing further cracking of propene into byproducts. Increasing the gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) also reduces propane conversion by a similar magnitude but fails to constrain the further cracking of propene.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
300-500度用于丙烷在二氧化碳存在的脱氢反应的热力学计算。这一温度范围显示了丙烷相对于其较轻和较重的同系物（乙烷C2H6和丁烷C4H10）的优势。模型系统中每个反应的吉布斯自由能（ΔG）计算表明，丙烯（C3H6）的进一步裂解会影响最终产物的产率和选择性。增加丙烷分压导致其转化率降低，但同时提高了丙烯的选择性。这是由于催化剂上产生的丙烯与失活的丙烷之间的竞争吸附，阻止了丙烯进一步裂解为副产品。提高气体小时空间速度（GHSV）也以相似的幅度减少了丙烷的转化率，但未能限制丙烯的进一步裂解。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
