I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


This is an Accepted Manuscript, which has been through the Royal Society of Chemistry peer review process and has been accepted for publication.
Accepted Manuscripts are published online shortly after acceptance, before technical editing, formatting and proof reading.
Using this free service, authors can make their results available to the community, in citable form, before we publish the edited article. We will replace this Accepted Manuscript with the edited and formatted Advance Article as soon as it is available.
You can find more information about Accepted Manuscripts in the Information for Authors.
Please note that technical editing may introduce minor changes to the text and/or graphics, which may alter content. The journals standard Terms & Conditions and the Ethical guidelines still apply. In no event shall the Royal Society of Chemistry be held responsible for any errors or omissions in this Accepted Manuscript or any consequences arising from the use of any information it contains.
Accepted Manuscript Faraday
Discussions www.rsc.org/faraday_d Faraday
Discussions Royal Society of Chemistry This manuscript will be presented and discussed at a forthcoming Faraday Discussion meeting.
All delegates can contribute to the discussion which will be included in the final volume.
Register now to attend! Full details of all upcoming meetings: http://rsc.li/fd-upcoming-meetings This is an Accepted Manuscript, which has been through the Royal Society of Chemistry peer review process and has been accepted for publication.
Accepted Manuscripts are published online shortly after acceptance, before technical editing, formatting and proof reading.
Using this free service, authors can make their results available to the community, in citable form, before we publish the edited article. We will replace this Accepted Manuscript with the edited and formatted Advance Article as soon as it is available.
You can find more information about Accepted Manuscripts in the Information for Authors.
Please note that technical editing may introduce minor changes to the text and/or graphics, which may alter content. The journals standard Terms & Conditions and the Ethical guidelines still apply. In no event shall the Royal Society of Chemistry be held responsible for any errors or omissions in this Accepted Manuscript or any consequences arising from the use of any information it contains.
Accepted Manuscript View Article Online View Journal This article can be cited before page numbers have been issued, to do this please use:  X. DU, B. Yao, S. Gonzalez-Cortes,
V. Kuznetsov, T. Xiao, Peter. P. Edwards and H. Al-mergren, Faraday Discuss., 2015, DOI: 10.1039/C5FD00062A.
Faraday Discussions
Paper This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015 Faraday Discuss.
Please do not adjust margins Please do not adjust margins a.
King Abdulaziz City of Science and Technology (KACST) - Oxford Centre of Excellence in Petrochemicals, Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 3QR, United Kingdom. E-mail:peter.edwards@chem.ox.ac.uk; Tel: +44(0)1865 272660; Fax: +44(0)1865 272690 b.
SINOPEC Shanghai Petrochemical Company LTD., Shanghai, 200540, China c. Petrochemicals Research Institute (PRI), King Abdulaziz City of Science and Technology (KACST), .Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, P.O. Box 6086, Riyadh 11442, Saudi Arabia Received 00th January 20xx, Accepted 00th January 20xx
DOI: 10.1039/x0xx00000x
www.rsc.org/ Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Propane by Carbon Dioxide: A Medium-Temperature Thermochemical Process for Carbon Dioxide Utilisation
X. Du,a B. Yao,b S. Gonzalez-Cortes,a V. L. Kuznetsov,a Hamid AlMegren,c T. Xiao,a* P. P. Edwards,a*
The dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 is an attractive  catalytic route for  C3H6 production. In studying the various possibilities to utilise CO2 to convert hydrocarbons using the sustainable  energy source of  solar thermal energy  , thermodynamic calculations were carried out for the dehydrogenation of C3H8 using CO2  for the process operating in the temperature range of 300-500. Importantly, the results highlight the enhanced potential of C3H8 as compared to its lighter and heavier homologues (C2H6 and C4H10,respectively ). To be utilised in this CO2 utilisation reaction The Gibbs Free Energy  ( ) of each reaction in the modelled, complete reacting system of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 also indicate that further cracking of C3H6 will  affect the ultimate yield and selectivity of the final products. In a parallel experimental study, catalytic tests of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 over 5wt%-Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts operating at 500, atmospheric pressure, and for various C3H8  partial pressures and various overall GHSV (Gas Hourly Space Velocity) values. The results showed that an increase in the  C3H8 partial pressure produced an inhibition of C3H8 conversion but, importantly, a promising enhancement of C3H6 selectivity. This phenomenon can be attributed to competitive adsorption on the catalyst between the generated C3H6 and inactivated C3H8, which inhibits any further cracking effect on C3H6 to produce by- products. As a comparison, the increase of the overall GHSV can also decrease the C3H8 conversion to a  similar extent, but the further cracking of C3H6 cannot be limited.
1. Introduction
In an attempt to ameliorate the burgeoning growth in greenhouse gas emissions, there are currently intense efforts,world-wide, aimed at the utilisation of CO2, particularly in its conversion to fuels and high-value chemical products1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
Chemical processes aimed at the  utilisation and conversion of CO2 are, of course,  driven in a thermodynamic sense by the difference in Gibbs Free Energy between the resulting final chemical products, and CO2 and the targeted reactants at the relevant experimental conditions.  However CO2 being a highly stable molecule will require a substantial amount of energy, effective catalysts and effective reaction conditions for any chemical conversion processes of CO2 into fuels or high-value chemical products.
Thus probably all chemical reactions for CO2 conversion and utilisation are endothermic and will consume considerable amounts of energy.  If such energy is provided by fossil fuels, the net effect based on any well-to-wheels analysis of the process will invariably result in a net production of CO2; this situation could only be deemed beneficial from a climate mitigation perspective if the necessary input process energy is provided from renewable or sustainable sources.
The motivation behind this work, therefore,  is to identify and develop specific chemical utilisation processes for CO2 that can be achieved by the application of relatively easily-accessible solar thermal energy and associated thermochemical  processes, using so-called "Low and Medium Temperature Thermochemical Processes", typically operating for temperature ranges of T 250 and T 250-500, respectively.8 Utilising solar thermal energy at these lower temperatures for thermochemical processes than the widely-utilised High Temperature Process regime9 (T1000) creates highly interesting and important challenges for catalysis science. Coupling and optimising the catalyst chemistry of CO2 chemical reactions in the temperature/energy range of ca 300-500 with the engineering challenges of cheap, solar thermal collectors may allow the prospect of accessible, sustainable CO2 utilisation.  These coupled challenges therefore provide a high level of opportunity for modern catalysis science and engineering.
As an improved reaction of the dehydrogenation of C3H8, the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 ( ) has been heavily studied over the last decade.10,11,12,13,14,15 In this promising reaction, CO2 acts as a mild oxidant to combine the dehydrogenation of C3H8 with a reverse Page 1 of 14 Faraday Discussions Faraday Discussions Accepted Manuscript Published on 26 June 2015. Downloaded by New York University on 31/08/2015 20:17:49.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/C5FD00062A
Paper Faraday Discussions 2  Faraday Discuss.
This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015 Please do not adjust margins Please do not adjust margins water gas shift (              ), and hence, the equilibrium of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 can be shifted to the product side. Moreover, CO2 may also reduce the coking effect of catalyst by coke gasification (          ). Competitive adsorption among C3H8, CO2 and generated gaseous water can also explain the relatively lower initial conversion of C3H8, the reduced coking effect, and higher stability of catalysts in the CO2 atmosphere.[16] In this paper, the advantages of specifically selecting C3H8 as the feedstock for CO2 utilisation are advanced for the  lower temperature requirements, as compared to both its lighter and heavier alkane homologues, C2H6 and C4H10, respectively.
Furthermore, in seeking the possibility to convert alkanes with the energy source from accessible solar heating technology, the temperature range to be targeted  in thermodynamic calculations has been localised in the range 300-500 which can be easily achieved, for example,  by  high pressure steam from a solar heating system.
The shift of the equilibrium state by CO2 in the dehydrogenation of
C3H8
has been identified from a thermodynamic analysis.17,18,19 However, the reaction systems modelled previously  rarely take into consideration the competing side reactions and by-products, The dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 can be significantly  affected by various competing side reactions which are deleterious  to the targeted C3H6 yield,selectivity and indeed to the stability of the operating catalyst.
Hence in this paper, the thermodynamic analysis was operated across a more comprehensive reaction system which covered all the possible by-products together with the generation of carbon- particularly important in a consideration of catalyst operating lifetimes When considering the side reactions for the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2, the major cause of by-products is the further cracking effect on C3H6 20, and the competitive adsorption from CO2 is claimed to be an effective way to inhibit that process.16 Our analysis reveals that the availability of active sites on the catalyst surface does indeed play a critical role in the reaction system. To observe the different performance properties of a catalyst when reactants are saturated, to the availability of active sites, the reactions were operated over a ZrO2-supported Cr2O3 catalyst with careful control of the various partial pressures of C3H8 but keeping a constant C3H8/CO2 ratio. The reaction results exhibited high C3H6 selectivity by inhibiting the selectivity of by- products, which is promising result if these processes are to be applied in any larger, scale up industrial process.
2. Thermodynamics and (selected) chemical
reactions of carbon dioxide In Figure 1 we illustrate the underlying thermodynamic considerations for the chemical utilisation of CO2, where the Gibbs free energy of formation of CO2 and various related substances are shown for comparison. Any attempt at utilising CO2 as a chemical reactant must therefore take account of the relative stability (Gibbs free energy) of the CO2 utilisation reaction products, as compared to CO2 and the other reactant(s) Both contributing terms (   and    ) for the Gibbs free energy are not favourable in converting CO2 to other molecules.
The carbon-oxygen bonds are strong and substantial energy is needed for their dissociation and subsequent reduction. Similarly,the entropy term (   ) typically makes little or no contribution to the thermodynamic driving force for any CO2 utilisation reaction.
The resulting Gibbs free energy of the CO2 chemical utilisation reaction,  , provides information as to the ultimate yield of reaction products at equilibrium, through the relationship
.
From Figure 2, however, the attractive option that that the Gibbs free energy changes of CO2 reaction becomes increasingly favourable by moving to higher members of the alkane homologous series. One notes, of course, that a ready solution for CO2 utilisation is its conversion to the more reactive CO via the reverse water gas shift reaction (             ), and subsequent use of syngas chemistry to yield the desired products. However, this attractive route clearly needs a ready source of H2 and ideally a source of sustainable H2 derived from non-fossil fuel routes. In the absence of hydrogen from low cost, low (zero) carbon sources, this process will yield a net CO2 emission for the total wheel-to-wheel analysis.
Our research, then, looks in detail at the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 by CO2 as a potential prospect for CO2 utilisation in temperature and reaction conditions where the ultimate application of solar thermal energy may be a promising technology. This is a specific example of the broader challenge facing any CO2 utilisation technology ; namely due to the inevitable input energy required  to convert CO2 to useful products, reducing CO2 emissions through CO2 utilisation will only be possible if the energy inputs are from renewable sources. We believe that Low-to Medium Temperature Solar Thermochemical processes offer considerable opportunities in that regard and the research outlined here-setting out the complete thermodynamic analysis together with a catalytic chemistry study - may present a way forward for CO2 utilisation
3. Thermodynamic calculations and simulations
3.1 Methods
In order to fully understand the thermodynamic basis of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2, in connecting also with the solar thermal technology which is normally set close to 500 in the form of high pressure steam, the standard change of reaction in Gibbs free energy , of the dehydrogenation of C2-C4 alkanes with CO2 utilisation ( ) were calculated in the temperature range of 300-500. The cracking of C1-C4 alkanes and olefins to form carbon (
) were also included in these calculations in this temperature range to indicate the potential coking ability on operating catalysts of each substances.
Here,of each single reaction in the temperature range of 300-500 was calculated as following:
Page 2 of 14 Faraday Discussions Faraday Discussions Accepted Manuscript Published on 26 June 2015. Downloaded by New York University on 31/08/2015 20:17:49.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/C5FD00062A
Faraday Discussions Paper This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015 Faraday Discuss.  3 Please do not adjust margins Please do not adjust margins
In the functions above,is the standard molar enthalpy of formation,is the standard molar entropy, while      is the parameters of molar heat capacity at constant pressure. The property parameters can be looked up from the chemical properties hand books, and these parameters of the related substances are list in Table 1 below.
3.2 Thermodynamic advantages of the dehydrogenation of
C3H8 in the presence of CO2 Figure 3 exhibits the standard change of reaction in Gibbs free energy ( ) of the reactions being compared. In the temperature range of 300-500, all dehydrogenation reactions show a similar trend. The highest is found for the process to dehydrogenate C2H6 with CO2 indicating  that it is  much harder to operate this reaction as compared to  other low-n alkanes at 300-500.
Importantly, ,does not  keep falling  as the carbon number of alkane increases, and to dehydrogenate C3H8 with CO2 appears more feasible  than some C4 reactions, for example The of alkane and olefin cracking to generate carbon and H2 are  shown in Figure 4, The  C4 alkanes  have multiple curves because of their constituent isomers. In general, the lower
indicates a higher possibility of cracking. Hence,the olefins show much higher cracking possibility than any alkanes,which imply that the selectivity of target products will be greatly affected by further cracking of olefins. For instance, C3H6 will be further cracked to lower level hydrocarbons or even carbon, so the selectivity will be reduced. It is also obvious that CH4 has the highest resistance to coking, and as a sequence of stepwise mechanism of hydrocarbon decomposition, it will be a major by-product in these reaction systems when looking at olefins only, it is obvious that the carbon number is the most important indicator of the cracking possibility. With the similar of dehydrogenation of alkane with CO2, C3H6 has much higher resistance to cracking than any isomers of butene. Although C2H4 has even higher resistance to subsequent cracking, it is even more difficult for C2H6 to be activated with CO2 when the temperature is kept below 500.
From this analysis, , the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 is recognisably  the best alkane  to be targeted for a chemical utilisation process for CO2 operating in this temperature range,-a range  specifically chosen for ready-availability of solar heating technology for these conditions
3.3 Modelled calculations of the dehydrogenation of C3H8
in the presence of CO2 In reality, of course, the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 is not a simple single reaction but a multiple reaction system, as shown in Table 2, mainly coupling the traditional dehydrogenation of C3H8 (reaction 1) and reverse water gas shift (reaction 2).
In this system, (1) and (2) are the main reactions considered; (3) and (4) are further cracking of C3 species where lighter by-products are formed; (5) is the reaction to gasify the carbon deposition.
The of reaction (1), (2), (3) and (5) are shown in Figure 5,while the ones of hydrocarbons cracking (reaction 4) are already displayed in Figure 4. From 300-500, only the cracking of C2 and C3, including reaction (3), can reach to a negative value of ,which means these reactions are thermodynamically favoured. On the contrary, the decomposition of CH4 is not favoured in this temperature range. Considering C3H8 is the feedstock in this system and the stepwise mechanism of hydrocarbons to be decomposed,the generation of CH4 can be an important indicator to measure the degree, and extent of side reactions during the reaction process.
CO2, as a mild oxidant, is not favoured to gasify the formed carbon deposition. Hence, CO2 is always applied in order to shift the equilibrium without increasing the temperature.   It is obvious that all other reactions in this system depend strongly on the conversion of C3H8 in reaction (1). Thus, when considering only reaction (1), this is a decomposition reaction which is favoured under lower partial pressure of C3H8. With the equilibrium constants calculated from
at the temperature range of 300-500, the conversions of C3H8 under different partial pressure is calculated as shown in Figure 6.
[
] The C3H8 conversion is observed to be significantly  affected by the partial pressure of C3H8 within the temperature range of 300- 500,It is for this reason that the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 should be operated with very low partial pressure of C3H8 when designing experiments.
Apart from the improvement of catalysts, higher C3H6 selectivity can also be achieved by changing the conditions of reaction. A general way to inhibit the reaction extent is to limit the contact time of reactants on a catalyst surface by increasing the space velocity of gas flow.21 As a comparison we model this and also increase the partial pressure of reactants operating under these conditions.
4. Experimental
4.1 Catalyst preparation
To prepare the 5wt% of Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst by precipitation method, ZrO2 (Alfa-Aesor, 90m2/g, 99%) was pre-heated at 600 for 6 hour before being grinded and sieved to 125μm in particle size.
Then, Cr(NO3)3-9H2O precursor (99%, Sigma Aldrich) was dissolved into distilled water, and this solution was mixed with the groundZrO2 support and stirred at room temperature for 24 hours.
To achieve Cr2O3-ZrO2, the as prepared suspension was dried to obtain a slurry or paste, which was finally calcined at 600 for 6 hours in a muffle furnace using a heating ramp of 10 C/min. The solid sample was ground to obtain fine particles 125μm.
4.2 Catalyst Characterisation
All the samples, including ZrO2 support, were characterized with high resolution X-ray Diffraction (XRD) using a PANalytical XPert PRO diffractrometer with CuK radiation (45kV, 40mA).
When being scanned, samples were flat loaded in the custom-built sample holders and scanned from 20to 302θwith a step size of 0.0084and a scanning speed at 0.017778s-1.
The amount of carbon deposition on the spent catalyst was measured via the thermo gravimetric analysis (TGA). The instrument employed was a TA Instrument, SDT Q-600, using flowing air at 100ml/min from 50 to 1000 with a ramp rate of 10/min. The TGA curves were also derived as D-TGA to show the rate of weight losses of samples Page 3 of 14 Faraday Discussions Faraday Discussions Accepted Manuscript Published on 26 June 2015. Downloaded by New York University on 31/08/2015 20:17:49.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/C5FD00062A
Paper Faraday Discussions 4  Faraday Discuss.
This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015 Please do not adjust margins Please do not adjust margins
4.3 Catalyst Testing
The stability test of C3H8 dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 was operated in an M-R-10A micro-reactor (KUNLUN YONGTAI Company, China) over the Cr-based catalyst prepared as above. All tests were operated under atmospheric pressure and 500 for 5 hours, and the C3H8/CO2 mixture, whose mole ratio was kept at C3H8/CO2 =1:2. As shown in Table 3, the conditions of tests differed from each other by two variables, the mole fractions of C3H8 (and CO2) and overall gas hourly space velocity (GHSV). N2 balance was applied to dilute the gas mixture. Considering that the reactions were operated under atmospheric pressure, the partial pressure of C3H8 in R-4800x2 and R-4800x3 was increased, and the GHSV of C3H8 was changed to the same level as R-9600 and R-14400 respectively.
The composition of outlet gas was tested by an online Gas Chromatography (PerkinElmer, Clarus 580 GC), and the conversions of C3H8 and CO2, the selectivity of products, and the carbon balance in gaseous products can be determined with the following equations:
5. Results and Discussion
5.1 Catalytic test results
The C3H8 conversion and C3H6 selectivity of the reaction under different C3H8 partial pressures and overall GHSV are shown in Figure 7. The results reveal effective C3H8 conversions at each specified condition while the C3H6 selectivity drops at the beginning of reactions. The results with different mole fractions of C3H8 were displayed with solid symbols and the conclusion drawn from the data in these figures is an inhibition of C3H8 conversion, but also an improvement in C3H6 selectivity. However, with the same increase of C3H8 fractional GHSV (by increasing the overall GHSV), the C3H8 conversion was inhibited to a similar extent while the C3H6 selectivity decreased also. These comparative results indicate that even though the C3H8 conversion was similarly inhibited via the two routes to increase the C3H8 fractional GHSV, the underpinning mechanisms were fundamentally different.
Figure 8 exhibits the production of CH4, the main by-product.
The initial selectivity of CH4 was decreased from 6% to 3% as an increase of C3H8 fractional GHSV. The CH4 selectivity can roughly indicate the cracking capability of catalyst on higher level hydrocarbons, which indirectly exhibits the extent of further cracking effect on C3H6 during the reaction.
5.2 Discussion on the changes of C3H6 selectivity.
The conversion of reactants and the mass balances of carbon and oxygen elements are shown in Table 4. In contrast to the high stability of the C3H8 conversion, the CO2 conversions dropped drastically over the first 5 hours. This may be due to the various and different sites for C3H8 and CO2 to be adsorbed on the catalyst surface respectively; C3H8 is usually attached to Cr species while CO2 can be adsorbed at the interface between Cr2O3 dopant and ZrO2 support.22 The high level of C-Balance indicates the low generation of solid and liquid C-containing product,; this confirms the high stability of C3H8 conversions in each test. The O-balance, which was higher than 100% at the end of the test, indicates additional,extraneous  oxygen  must have entered into the gaseous phase during the reaction, and the oxygen source can be attributed to the reduction of high valance state chromium species (Cr6+/Cr5+) on the catalyst surface.23  Weckhuysen et al.24 claimed that Cr6+ plays as a precursor for the Cr dehydrogenation centres, and the reduction of Cr species is assumed to be one of the primary deactivation mechanisms.
Table 5 is a compilation of the selectivity of gaseous products.
The reduced level of C2Hx production as compared to that of the selectivity of CH4 was observed). This experimental trend matched the prediction (highlighted in Figure 4) that CH4 is much more difficult to be thermally cracked at 500 than corresponding C2 molecules. The decrease of CO yield was not as much as the trend of CO2 conversion; we believe this is due to the carbon gasification by reducing the chromium species (Cr6+/Cr5+) on catalyst surface,which matches the observed increasing  O-balance.
The XRD patterns of 5wt%-Cr2O3/ZrO2 before and after the catalytic tests are displayed in Figure 9, and the pattern of the ZrO2 support is also shown here as reference. The peak at 2θ=36.18is corresponds to the 1-1-0 phase of Cr2O3 with rhombohedral crystal symmetry. No peak shift or new peaks were observed from the post-reaction catalyst, which indicated that no phase change occurred during the catalytic test. Importantly, this also matched the high stability of C3H8 conversions, as shown in Figure 7.
Thermo gravimetric analysis
(TGA)
results and the corresponding derivative weight -to - temperature (D-TGA) plots are displayed in Figure 10. The weight loss starting from 200 we attribute to the combustion of amorphous carbon in air. The integrated area of the derivative weight equals to the weight loss,which displayed more coke formed with an increase of the C3H8 fractional GHSV.
In general terms, the mechanism of C3H8 dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 involves the primary activation of C3H8 on the catalyst surface, while CO2 provides a contribution to the reaction equilibrium shift by oxidising H2 generated from the C3H8 dehydrogenation (via the reverse water gas shift reaction,). From the macro perspective, the average contact time for each C3H8 molecule is shortened with the higher C3H8 fractional GHSV, and this is the cause of a decreased C3H8 conversion by optimising both methods to modify the C3H8 fractional GHSV. However, the observed changes of C3H6 selectivity indicate that only increasing the partial pressure of reactants can effectively inhibit the further cracking of C3H6. This arises because the competitive adsorption between C3H6 and other substances are strengthened from the micro perspective Page 4 of 14 Faraday Discussions Faraday Discussions Accepted Manuscript Published on 26 June 2015. Downloaded by New York University on 31/08/2015 20:17:49.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/C5FD00062A
Faraday Discussions Paper This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015 Faraday Discuss.  5 Please do not adjust margins Please do not adjust margins Conclusions With the aim of attempting to (ultimately) correlate  the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 with the energy source from solar heating technology, thermodynamic calculations were operated for chemical processes operating in the temperature range 300-500. An important outcome is the great potential of C3H8 as compared to its lighter and heavier homologues (C2H6 and C4H10, respectively) from both the perspective of CO2 activation and also coking resistance across this temperature range. The of each reaction in our thermodynamic modelling  of the dehydrogenation of C3H8  in the presence of CO2 also indicated that neither the reverse water gas shift nor the coke gasification with CO2 are favoured at 300-500 A series of catalytic tests were carried out over 5wt%- Cr2O3/ZrO2 at various C3H8 partial pressure and overall GHSV. It was shown that the increase of C3H8 partial pressure is highly beneficial for the enhancement of C3H6 selectivity. Meanwhile, the C3H8 conversion was sacrificed due to the competitive adsorption between the produced C3H6 and inactivated C3H8 molecules, which was the major reason for the inhibition of further cracking of C3H6.
As a comparison, the increase of the overall GHSV can also decrease the C3H8 conversion to the similar extent. However, the further cracking of C3H6 cannot be limited because only the contacting time of C3H8 on the catalyst surface was shortened from this micro perspective.
From the aspect of the ultimate application of this particular CO2 utilisation processes, we believe that the enhancement of selectivity of the (target) C3H6 product, whilst sacrificing some of the reactants ultimate conversion is acceptable. The efficiency can be improved by a cycle system involving the reuse of the unconverted feedstock by separating from the outlet mixture and subsequently cycling back to the inlet mixture. It is recognised that this kind of cycle system is beneficial to the reactions with low conversion but very high selectivity. The high thermo-stability of the present catalyst makes it attractive to scale-up to a moving bed or even a fluid bed reactor for catalyst regeneration.
We believe that the results presented here are promising in terms of the underpinning catalyst science for establishing the potential industrialisation of the process of CO2 utilisation through C3H8 dehydrogenation. This type of CO2 utilisation, operating in the relatively low temperature range of 300-500 - and easily accessible by solar thermochemical routes, could help shift the focus of CO2 interest from the disposal of an inconvenient by- product  typified by the process of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) - towards the production and use of CO2 as a commodity chemical in Carbon Capture and Utilisation (CCU).  However, one must stress again that any proposed CCU process to be realistic for emission reduction potential can only be beneficial if any necessary energy input is from renewable sources. As noted here, our view is that solar thermal chemical processes for CO2 utilisation, accessible across these temperature ranges, offer very considerable potential in that important regard.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do advanced in situ and ex situ analytical techniques, including XRD, XANES, EXAFS, and ADF-STEM with EELS, synergistically contribute to our understanding of the structural properties, oxidation states, spatial distribution, and morphological characteristics of active sites in Fe3Ni1/CeO2 and Fe1Ni3/CeO2 catalysts, and what are the key differences and implications of these findings for catalyst performance and design?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 