<quotes>
[1] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[2] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[3] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[4] "Moreover, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right."
[5] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[6] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[7] "In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or fracking technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner."
[8] "The recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[9] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[10] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[11] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[12] "In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[13] "The majority of these new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies."
[14] "Literally dozens of new installations have been planned or are already under construction, amounting to an additional 14 million tons of propylene to be produced annually by 2018."
[15] "Moreover, in Table 2, a comparison is made between the two most important processes, Catofin and Oleflex."
[16] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[17] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[18] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[19] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[20] "A Catofin installation generally consists of 58 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors containing a chromiaalumina catalyst."
[21] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[22] "Indeed, temperatures of 550750 C are typically required in the dehydrogenation of C2C4 paraffins to obtain alkane conversions 50% at 1 bar (see Figure 8)."
[23] "The CH bonds in paraffins and olefins are considerably more reactive than CC bonds, meaning that catalysts that favor CH over CC bond cleavage are required to avoid side reactions."
[24] "Fortunately, these side reactions are catalyzed by specific sites that are not required for dehydrogenation, which means that high olefin yields can be obtained by careful catalyst design."
[25] "As was shown in the previous section, two strategies have been adopted in industry to lower paraffin partial pressure, reducing the pressure below atmospheric (Catofin) or diluting the paraffin feed with steam (STAR process)."
[26] "Notably, the reaction equilibrium can be shifted to higher paraffin conversions by reducing the partial pressure of the paraffin or by withdrawing the hydrogen produced."
[27] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[28] "The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is discussed."
[29] "The chemistry of vanadium oxide for oxidative dehydrogenation has been further discussed in a review by Albonetti et al. (31)"
[30] "Other reviews focusing on a specific family of dehydrogenation catalysts have also been published."
[31] "The nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light paraffins on both supported and bulk transition metal oxides has also been discussed by Copret in a review focused on CH bond activation."
[32] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[33] "The global demand of propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 45% on a yearly basis."
[34] "The STAR process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East."
[35] "Moreover, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right."
[36] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[37] "The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is discussed."
[38] "The global demand of propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 45% on a yearly basis."
[39] "The STAR process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East."
[40] "Moreover, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right."
[41] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[42] "The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is discussed."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions very favorable.

2. Shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas.

3. A shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the US has occurred due to the high availability of cheap ethane.

4. The products made by olefins are shown in the graph to the right.

5. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions very favorable.

6. The drop in gas costs relative to 2005 prices has made shale gas a very attractive energy source and feedstock for producing transportation fuels or chemicals.

7. Hydraulic fracturing technologies have improved, allowing large volumes of shale gas to be extracted cost-effectively.

8. The US has become the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as evidenced by 126 investment projects totaling $84 billion made by the American Chemistry Council up to September 2013.

9. Investment in new butane dehydrogenation installations has been spurred in the US, China, and Japan.

10. Dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique that yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products.

11. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions very favorable.

12. Ethane crackers are being constructed and naphtha crackers are either dismantled or converted in the US due to the high availability of cheap ethane.

13. The majority of new propylene production facilities will be built in China or the US and use either the Catofin or Oleflex technologies.

14. The number of new propylene production facilities is expected to increase significantly as dozens of new installations have been announced worldwide and many are already under construction.

15. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions very favorable.

16. Steam cracking installations in the US are shifting from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane due to the high availability of cheap ethane.

17. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions very favorable.

18. A Catofin installation consists of 58 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors containing a chromiaalumina catalyst.

19. The catalyst in use lasts for 23 years, with activity loss counteracted by gradual temperature increases to maintain constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst lifespan.

20. Temperatures of 550-750°C are typically required to achieve alkane conversions of 50% at 1 bar in the dehydrogenation of C2-C4 paraffins.

21. Catalysts that favor CH over CC bond cleavage are required to avoid side reactions.

22. Side reactions are catalyzed by specific sites that are not required for dehydrogenation, allowing high olefin yields to be obtained through careful catalyst design.

23. Industry strategies to lower paraffin partial pressure include reducing pressure below atmospheric (Catofin) or diluting the paraffin feed with steam (STAR process).

24. Reaction equilibrium can be shifted to higher paraffin conversions by reducing paraffin partial pressure or withdrawing hydrogen.

25. Investment in new butane dehydrogenation installations has been spurred in the US, China, and Japan.

26. CO2 is used as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.

27. The STAR process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East.

28. Products made by olefins are shown in the graph to the right.

29. The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, with activity loss counteracted by gradual temperature increases to maintain constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst lifespan.

30. CO2 is used as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.

31. The global demand for propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 45% annually.

32. The STAR process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East.

33. The products made by olefins are shown in the graph to the right.

34. The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, with activity loss counteracted by gradual temperature increases to maintain constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst lifespan.

35. CO2 is used as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.

36. The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, with activity loss counteracted by gradual temperature increases to maintain constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst lifespan.

37. CO2 is used as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。

2. 石油页岩气藏中还含有大量天然气液体（NGL），如乙烷和丙烷，这些可以通过分离从天然气中获得。

3. 美国的裂解安装从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩气的乙烷，这是由于廉价乙烷的高可用性。

4. 制图显示了由这些烯烃制成的产品。

5. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。

6. 相对较低的气体成本与2005年的价格相比，使页岩气成为生产运输燃料或化学品的非常有吸引力的能源来源和原料。

7. 水力压裂技术的进步，使得大量页岩气以成本效益的方式被提取。

8. 美国已成为中东以外最低成本的化学生产商，这在截至2013年9月美国化学理事会的126个总投资项目总额为840亿美元的情况下得到了证明。

9. 在美国、中国和日本投资新的丁烷脱氢装置被推动。

10. 脱氢是一种目的明确的技术，只能产生特定的烯烃，而不是混合产品。

11. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。

12. 美国的裂解安装正在从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩气的乙烷，这是由于廉价乙烷的高可用性。

13. 大多数新丙烯生产设施将在中国或美国建立，并使用Catofin或Oleflex技术。

14. 预计丙烯生产设施的数量将显著增加，因为宣布了数十个新安装，并且许多已经处于建设中。

15. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。

16. 美国的裂解安装正在从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩气的乙烷，这是由于廉价乙烷的高可用性。

17. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。

18. 一个Catofin安装由58个平行的绝热固定床反应器组成，每个反应器包含一种铬氧化铝催化剂。

19. 催化剂的使用寿命为23年，通过逐步提高温度来抵消活性损失，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢化活性。

20. 通常需要550-750°C的温度才能在1巴下将C2-C4烷烃转化为50%的烷基化物。

21. 需要促进CH而非CC键断裂的催化剂以避免副反应。

22. 副反应由不需要用于脱氢的特定位点催化，通过仔细设计催化剂可以获得高烯烃产率。

23. 行业策略降低烷烃分压包括减少压力至大气以下（Catofin）或用蒸汽稀释烷烃进料（STAR过程）。

24. 反应平衡可以通过降低烷烃分压或移除氢气来转移到更高的烷烃转化率。

25. 在美国、中国和日本投资新的丁烷脱氢装置被推动。

26. CO2用作轻烷烃脱氢的温和氧化剂。

27. STAR过程将在中东首次应用于两个安装。

28. 制图显示了由这些烯烃制成的产品。

29. 催化剂的使用寿命为23年，通过逐步提高温度来抵消活性损失，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢化活性。

30. CO2用作轻烷烃脱氢的温和氧化剂。

31. 当年全球丙烯需求量为1.03亿吨，预计每年增长45%。

32. STAR过程将在中东首次应用于两个安装。

33. 制图显示了由这些烯烃制成的产品。

34. 催化剂的使用寿命为23年，通过逐步提高温度来抵消活性损失，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢化活性。

35. CO2用作轻烷烃脱氢的温和氧化剂。

36. 催化剂的使用寿命为23年，通过逐步提高温度来抵消活性损失，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢化活性。

37. CO2用作轻烷烃脱氢的温和氧化剂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
