<quotes>
3.1.
Catalyst characterization The
SEM
images in Fig. 1 showed that there were large morpho- logical differences between
TS-C
and
TS-H.
TS-C
comprised solid cubic particles with smooth surfaces (Fig. 1a),which is a morphol- ogy that is commonly reported for particles of
SAPO-34.
In contrast,the surfaces of
TS-H
(Fig. 1b and c) had plentiful 50 to 500 nm macropore openings.
From a large number of observations using
SEM,
it was observed that the pore distribution on the
TS-H
sur- face had regularity,that is,they were observed to be well-ordered macropores with a unique structure which differed from those pre- viously reported for mesoporous [21] and layered [8]
SAPO-34.

3.2.
Diffusion rates Typical response curves of propene diffusing out from
TS-C
and
TS-H
at
40 C
are shown in Fig. 5,which showed that there was a large difference in the diffusion rates inside the two samples.
The gas diffusion out from
TS-H
was clearly much faster than from
TS-C.
Curve fitting of the response curves with the diffusion equa- tion gave the apparent diffusion coefficient of propene in
TS-H
as
1.1
× 1013 m2/s (Table 1) and showed that it was one order of mag- nitude larger than that in
TS-C.

3.3.
MTO
reaction The conversion of methanol over the two catalysts and their selectivities to the products of the
MTO
reaction,including coke and gaseous products,measured by
TGGC
are shown in Figs. 6 and
7.
In the experiment,the conversion was kept low in order to approx- imate a differential reactor so that the conversion can be used to give a quantitative comparison of the activities of the two sam- ples.
The conversion was calculated as moles of product per mole of reactant (sum of moles of carbon in all products including gaseous products and coke divided by moles of carbon in the methanol at
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The hierarchical SAPO-34/18 zeolite has a distinct morphology compared to the conventional SAPO-34. The SEM images revealed that TS-C consists of solid cubic particles with smooth surfaces, while TS-H displays numerous 50 to 500 nm macropore openings on its surface. The macropores in TS-H are well-ordered and form a unique structure that differs from previously reported mesoporous and layered SAPO-34. The diffusion rates of propene from TS-H were significantly higher than from TS-C, indicating that the presence of macropores in TS-H reduces the diffusion distance within the zeolitic phase, resulting in improved catalytic performance. In the MTO reaction, TS-H exhibited higher selectivities to propene and butenes, lower selectivities to propane and coke, leading to a longer catalyst lifetime and higher yields of alkenes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
SAPO-34/18分子筛的结构与常规SAPO-34存在明显差异。扫描电子显微镜（SEM）图像显示，TS-C由带有光滑表面的固态立方体颗粒组成，而TS-H表面布满了50至500纳米的大量大孔开口。TS-H的大孔具有规则排列的独特结构，与之前报告的介孔和层状SAPO-34不同。TS-H中的丙烯扩散速率远高于TS-C，这表明TS-H中大孔的存在缩短了大分子在分子筛相内部的扩散距离，从而提高了催化性能。在甲醇转化为烯烃（MTO）反应中，TS-H对丙烯和丁烯的选择性更高，对丙烷和焦炭的选择性更低，导致催化剂寿命延长以及更多的烯烃生成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
