<quotes>
[1] "The method did not need to use extra template or demetallation procedures to produce the hierarchical structure."
[2] "The hierarchical structure reduced the diffusion distance inside the zeolitic phase because the void space made it equivalent to being comprised of small zeolitic crystallites, which gave a catalytic performance akin to that of nanosized zeolite particles."
[3] "Reac- tivity studies that used a thermogravimetryGC combination that simultaneously measured coke in the zeolite in addition to the gaseous products from the methanol-to-olefins process showed that the hierarchical structure and low acid site density resulted in a longer lifetime, lower selectivities to coke and propane and higher selectivities to propene and butene."
[4] "Since the particle size of TS-H was about the same as that of TS-C, and since their crystalline phases were the same (which would mean that the diffusion rates were the same inside the crystalline phases), these data indicated that the effective diffusion path in TS-H was significantly reduced by the presence of macropores in the particle."
[5] "Many data sets of catalyst activity reported in the literature use only the gaseous products to calculate reaction rates because there was no online collection of coke data. This would underestimate the activity and overestimate the selectivity of gaseous products if the coking rate was not negligible. When the coke selectivity is not low enough to be ignored, the conversions to all products including coke should be used to get the accurate measure of catalyst activity and product selectivities."
[6] "The slower coke deposit rate on TS-H would be due to its lower acidity, since coke has to be formed by oligomerization, which needs a high density of acid sites."
[7] "The second factor of the diffusion rates makes use of the consideration that when the diffusion distance of alkenes inside the particle is long, this can result in the further conversion of these molecules into coke."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The hierarchical structure was created without using additional templates or demetallation procedures.
2. The reduced diffusion distance within the zeolite phase led to a catalytic performance similar to that of nanoparticles.
3. The hierarchical structure and lower acid site density led to a longer catalyst lifetime, lower coke and propane selectivity, and higher propene and butene selectivity.
4. The presence of macropores in the TS-H particle significantly reduced the effective diffusion path length.
5. Including the coke accumulation data in the calculation of catalyst activity provides a more accurate measure of the activity and product selectivities.
6. The lower coke deposition rate on TS-H was attributed to its lower acidity, as coke formation requires a high density of acid sites.
7. The longer diffusion distance of alkenes inside the particle increases the risk of further conversion into coke.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 无需额外模板或去金属化过程即可产生分级结构。
2. 分级结构减少了择形分子在择形分子相内部的扩散距离，催化性能类似于纳米级择形分子颗粒。
3. 分级结构和较低的酸性位密度导致催化剂寿命更长、焦炭和丙烷选择性降低、丙烯和丁烯选择性提高。
4. TS-H 粒子中的大量孔隙显著缩短了有效扩散路径长度。
5. 包括焦炭积累数据在内的催化剂活性计算提供了更准确的活性和产品选择性的测量。
6. TS-H 上较低的焦炭沉积速率归因于其较低的酸性，因为焦炭形成需要高密度的酸性位点。
7. 颗粒内烯烃较长的扩散距离增加了进一步转化为焦炭的风险。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
