<quotes>

[1] "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a contemporary example of such a challenging reaction. While propene is conventionally produced via steam cracking of large hydrocarbons in naphtha, the more recent trend to use shale gas as feeds to steam cracker units greatly increases the availability of low-cost ethene but also results in a gap between demand and supply of propene, as well as other higher olefins (2, 3). This disparity motivates the exploration of on-purpose propene technologies."
[2] "Despite non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation being the emerging technology used today, ODHP has the potential to improve reaction efficiency over its non-oxidative counterpart because of favorable thermodynamics (exothermic, lower reaction temperatures) and enhanced catalyst stability (prevention of coke deposition on the catalyst surface)."
[3] "The key scientific challenge that must be overcome remains,however, the prevention of the facile over-oxidation of propene product into more thermodynamically stable CO and CO2 (COx)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in current propylene production methods, which rely on steam cracking of large hydrocarbons, include a gap between demand and supply of propene and other higher olefins due to the increased availability of low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a potential on-purpose propene technology. ODHP presents advantages over non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation due to favorable thermodynamics, including exothermic reactions and lower reaction temperatures, as well as enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition on the catalyst surface. However, ODHP also presents a significant challenge in preventing the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, which are more thermodynamically stable.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战在于，依赖于大型烃类蒸汽裂解的工艺导致丙烯和其他高阶烯烃的供需差距，这是因为页岩气作为原料大量生产低成本乙烯。丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)通过提供潜在的丙烯定向生产技术来解决这些问题。与非氧化丙烷脱氢相比，ODHP由于有利的热力学特性，包括放热反应和较低的反应温度，以及通过防止催化剂表面焦炭沉积而增强的催化剂稳定性，具有优势。然而，ODHP也面临着防止丙烯过度氧化为更热力学稳定的CO和CO2的重大挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
