<quotes>

[1] "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a contemporary example of such a challenging reaction. While propene is conventionally produced via steam cracking of large hydrocarbons in naphtha, the more recent trend to use shale gas as feeds to steam cracker units greatly increases the availability of low-cost ethene but also results in a gap between demand and supply of propene, as well as other higher olefins (2, 3). This disparity motivates the exploration of on-purpose propene technologies."
[2] "Despite non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation being the emerging technology used today, ODHP has the potential to improve reaction efficiency over its non-oxidative counterpart because of favorable thermodynamics (exothermic, lower reaction temperatures) and enhanced catalyst stability (prevention of coke deposition on the catalyst surface)."
[3] "The key scientific challenge that must be overcome remains, however, the prevention of the facile over-oxidation of propene product into more thermodynamically stable CO and CO2 (COx)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in current propylene production methods, particularly steam cracking, include a gap between demand and supply of propene and other higher olefins due to the increased availability of low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a potential on-purpose propene technology. ODHP presents advantages over non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation due to favorable thermodynamics, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP also presents the significant challenge of preventing the over-oxidation of propene into more thermodynamically stable carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide (COx).

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战，特别是蒸汽裂解，包括由于页岩气带来的低成本乙烯增加，导致丙烯和其他更高烯烃的需求与供应之间存在差距。丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）通过提供潜在的丙烯定向生产技术来解决这些问题。与非氧化丙烷脱氢相比，ODHP由于有利的热力学，包括在较低温度下进行的放热反应，以及通过防止焦炭沉积增强的催化剂稳定性，而具有优势。然而，ODHP也存在防止丙烯过度氧化成更热力学稳定的二氧化碳和一氧化碳（COx）的重大挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
