<quotes>

[1] "The production of light olefins by alkane dehydrogenation is practiced commercially, but because of its endothermicity, it requires high reaction temperatures to achieve economically attractive yields.4 High reaction temperatures cause catalyst deactivation by sintering5 and coke formation.6 While carbon deposits can be effectively oxidized during regeneration in air, it is more difficult to achieve redispersion of Pt.7 In fact, heating Pt/Al2O3 under oxidizing conditions leads to sintering of Pt, forming large Pt particles.8 To achieve redispersion of Pt, it is necessary to add halogens (such as, Cl2, HCl, CCl4, or F2) so that the small particle size of Pt in the initial catalyst can be restored.9 Herein, we explore an alternative support, CeO2, that is unique in its ability to trap Pt atoms in ionic form.10 The CeO2 support facilitates redispersion, restoring the atomic dispersion of Pt without the need for corrosive halogens. Furthermore, the redox properties of CeO2 allow the use of water vapor, which almost completely eliminates the coke deposition traditionally seen during propane conversion at high reaction temperatures."
[2] "The coke content on the spent PtSn catalysts was investigated at the end of the first cycle by performing thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) in flowing air and elemental analysis using a CHN analyzer (TableS4). Both techniques gave similar carbon contents. The coke deposited on the sample is reported in Table1. All of these catalysts show very low coke content of <1wt% after a 6h run at 680C. This is due to the co-feeding of water vapor to the catalyst.14 When no water vapor was fed to the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst, the coke content increased from 0.5 to 2.8wt% and the conversion dropped."
[3] "The catalysts undergo calcination in flowing air at 800C to disperse Pt and Sn. In the as-prepared PtSn/CeO2 catalyst (Figure2b), we see atomically dispersed species as well as subnanometer clusters with an average diameter of 0.6nm (Figure2b; FigureS6)."
[4] "The spent catalyst readily reverts to an atomically dispersed state after oxidation treatment without the need for added chlorine."
[5] "The ability of mobile Pt to reduce the dispersed Sn species is similar to that seen previously where Pt was found to reduce PdO to form bimetallic PtPd particles.19 What is unique about the CeO2 support is that these PtSn clusters do not grow in size during reaction at steady state (Figure2d). In contrast, the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst presents particle sizes about 8nm in diameter (FigureS12). The primary mechanism for sintering of the PtSn catalyst is Ostwald ripening at high temperatures. The CeO2 support slows the process of ripening since it is able to trap the Pt atoms."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a commercial process for the production of light olefins, such as propene, but it requires high reaction temperatures due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. High temperatures can cause catalyst deactivation by sintering and coke formation. Carbon deposits can be oxidized during regeneration, but it is difficult to redispense Pt. Heating Pt/Al2O3 under oxidizing conditions leads to sintering of Pt, forming large Pt particles. To achieve redispersion of Pt, halogens are usually added. An alternative support, CeO2, can trap Pt atoms in ionic form, facilitating redispersion without the need for corrosive halogens. The redox properties of CeO2 allow the use of water vapor, which almost completely eliminates coke deposition during propane conversion at high temperatures.
2.Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can impact the efficiency of the PDH process. The spent PtSn catalysts show very low coke content of <1wt% after a 6h run at 680C due to the co-feeding of water vapor to the catalyst. When no water vapor was fed to the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst, the coke content increased from 0.5 to 2.8wt% and the conversion dropped.
3.The as-prepared PtSn/CeO2 catalyst contains atomically dispersed species as well as subnanometer clusters with an average diameter of 0.6nm.
4.The spent catalyst readily reverts to an atomically dispersed state after oxidation treatment without the need for added chlorine.
5.The CeO2 support is unique because it can trap Pt atoms, preventing the PtSn clusters from growing in size during reaction at steady state. In contrast, the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst presents particle sizes about 8nm in diameter. The primary mechanism for sintering of the PtSn catalyst is Ostwald ripening at high temperatures. The CeO2 support slows the process of ripening since it is able to trap the Pt atoms.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一种商业过程，用于生产轻烯烃，如丙烯，但由于反应的吸热性质，它需要高温。高温会导致催化剂失活，通过烧结和焦炭形成。碳沉积物可以在再生过程中被氧化，但很难重新分散Pt。在氧化条件下加热Pt/Al2O3会导致Pt烧结，形成大Pt颗粒。为了实现Pt的再分散，通常添加卤素。替代支撑，CeO2，可以将Pt原子捕获在离子形式，促进再分散，无需腐蚀性卤素。CeO2的氧化还原性质允许使用水蒸气，几乎完全消除了在高温下丙烷转化过程中通常看到的焦炭沉积。
2.Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成会影响PDH过程的效率。在680C下运行6小时后，PtSn催化剂的焦炭含量非常低，<1wt%，这是由于向催化剂共喂水蒸气。当没有水蒸气喂入PtSn/CeO2催化剂时，焦炭含量从0.5增加到2.8wt%，转化率下降。
3.制备的PtSn/CeO2催化剂含有原子分散的物种以及平均直径为0.6nm的亚纳米簇。
4.在氧化处理后，催化剂很容易恢复到原子分散状态，无需添加氯。
5.CeO2支撑是独一无二的，因为它可以捕获Pt原子，防止PtSn簇在稳态反应过程中增大。相比之下，PtSn/Al2O3催化剂的颗粒尺寸约为8nm。PtSn催化剂烧结的主要机制是高温下的奥斯特瓦尔德熟化。CeO2支撑减缓了烧结过程，因为它能够捕获Pt原子。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
