<quotes>
[1] "The structure, active species, and properties of dispersed metal catalyst materials have been of great interest in heterogeneous catalysis for many years."
[2] "The catalytic activity of the dispersed metals on the supports is influenced by many factors such as relative amount of metals present, extent of dispersion, chemical nature of the support, and strength of interaction between support and the metal."
[3] "Recently, much attention has been focused on CeO2-based materials for their applications in automotive exhausts, oxygen storage capacity, and stabilization of dispersed metals."
[4] "Several investigators have reported the noble metal-ceria interaction and its effects on catalytic activities."
[5] "Our recent study5 showed that Pd2+ ions are dispersed on CeO2, and catalytic activity of ionically dispersed Pd on CeO2 is much higher than dispersed Pd metal particles on Al2O3."
[6] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[7] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[8] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[9] "Recently, much attention has been focused on CeO2-based materials for their applications in automotive exhausts, oxygen storage capacity, and stabilization of dispersed metals."
[10] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[11] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[12] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[13] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[14] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[15] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[16] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[17] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[18] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[19] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[20] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[21] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[22] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[23] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[24] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[25] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[26] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[27] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[28] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[29] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[30] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[31] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[32] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[33] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[34] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[35] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[36] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[37] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[38] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[39] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[40] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[41] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[42] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[43] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[44] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[45] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[46] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[47] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[48] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[49] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[50] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[51] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[52] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[53] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[54] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[55] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[56] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[57] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[58] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[59] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
[60] "In the past few years, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis has been used extensively for probing the local structure and identification of the active species of Pd supported on Al2O3, niobia, LaAl2O3, zeolite, and carbon materials."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature discusses the use of extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis for probing the local structure and identifying active species of palladium (Pd) supported on various materials, including aluminum oxide (Al2O3), niobia, lanthanum aluminum oxide (LaAl2O3), zeolites, and carbon materials. This technique has been extensively applied in recent years to understand the properties and catalytic activities of Pd supported catalysts.

It is stated that in the past few years, EXAFS analysis has been used to extensively probe the local structure and identify the active species of Pd supported on various materials. The text highlights that this technique is crucial for understanding the behavior and performance of dispersed metal catalysts in heterogeneous catalysis. It also mentions that Pd-based catalysts are active for reactions such as NO reduction and CO and hydrocarbon oxidation, and that the presence of Pd in the lattice of ceria-based catalysts has been shown to enhance methane combustion activity.

The study focuses on the structure, electronic structure, and chemical properties of a Pd/CeO2 catalyst prepared by the solution-combustion method. The catalyst is characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and EXAFS spectroscopy. The XRD analysis reveals the absence of diffraction lines corresponding to Pd or PdO, suggesting the formation of a solid solution of Ce1-xPdxO2-δ. XPS studies confirm that Pd is in a highly ionic +2 state, while EXAFS analysis shows that Pd2+ ions are substituted for Ce4+ sites with oxide ion vacancies around Pd2+ ions. The authors propose that the Pd2+ ions stabilize in the Ce4+ site, leading to a strong PdCeO2 interaction, forming a Ce1-xPdxO2-δ solid solution with Pd2+O2-Ce4+ linkages.

The EXAFS analysis further suggests that the Pd2+ ions are incorporated into the CeO2 lattice, creating oxide ion vacancies. This is supported by the fact that the coordination number of Pd is lower than in PdO, indicating the presence of oxide ion vacancies around Pd2+ ions. The authors conclude that the higher catalytic activity of the combustion-synthesized 1 at. % Pd/CeO2 catalyst for CO oxidation is attributed to the interaction of Pd2+ ions with the CeO2 support, which can now serve as an oxygen-exchange site due to the oxide ion vacancies.

In summary, the EXAFS analysis plays a crucial role in elucidating the local structure, chemical state, and interactions of Pd in various supported catalysts, providing insights into their catalytic performance and enhancing the design of more efficient catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献讨论了扩展X射线吸收精细结构（EXAFS）分析在研究Pd在各种材料上的局部结构以及识别活性物种中的应用，包括铝氧化物（Al2O3）、niobia、镧铝氧化物（LaAl2O3）、沸石和碳材料。这种技术在近年来得到了广泛的应用，以理解分散金属催化剂的性质和催化性能。

文献提到，在过去的几年里，EXAFS分析被用来广泛地探查Pd在不同材料上的局部结构并识别活性物种。文中强调，这项技术对于了解异质催化中分散金属催化剂的行为和性能至关重要。它还指出，基于Pd在氧化铈基催化剂晶格中的存在能够增强甲烷燃烧活性的研究结果。

该研究聚焦于通过燃烧合成方法制备的Pd/CeO2催化剂的结构、电子结构和化学性质。催化剂通过X射线衍射（XRD）、X射线光电子能谱（XPS）和EXAFS光谱进行表征。XRD分析显示不存在Pd或PdO的衍射线，这表明形成了Ce1-xPdxO2-δ型固溶体。XPS研究表明，Pd处于高度离子化的+2状态，而EXAFS分析显示Pd2+离子取代了Ce4+位点，并且周围有氧离子空位。作者提出，Pd2+离子稳定在Ce4+位点，导致PdCeO2强相互作用，形成Ce1-xPdxO2-δ固溶体，具有Pd2+O2-Ce4+连接。

进一步的EXAFS分析表明，Pd2+离子被集成到CeO2晶格中，产生氧离子空位。这由Pd的配位数低于PdO的事实支持，表明Pd2+离子周围有氧离子空位。作者得出结论，燃烧合成的1 at. % Pd/CeO2催化剂的CO氧化活性较高是由于Pd2+离子与CeO2支持的相互作用，这导致由于氧离子空位而成为氧交换位点。

总之，EXAFS分析在揭示Pd在不同负载催化剂上的局部结构、化学状态和相互作用方面发挥着关键作用，提供了对它们催化性能的见解，并促进了更高效催化剂的设计。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
