<quotes>

[1] "Compared with benzene, toluene has a larger molecular size of 0.54 nm. Its alkylation with benzyl alcohol over hierarchically mesoporous mordenites and microporous mordenites confirmed the superiority of the introduced mesopores."
[2] "The results indicated that the acid-washing after base treatment can significantly increase the external surface area of the samples, which resulted from the complete removal of the deposited aluminum species from the framework."
[3] "The external acid sites in mesoporous ZSM-5 were more accessible for the guest molecules, leading to a nearly 5-fold increased catalytic activity than that of microporous ZSM-5 in the aromatic benzylation."
[4] "The introduction of mesopores into the zeolites or reducing the zeolite crystalline size can efficiently overcome the diffusion limitations and significantly accelerate the mass transfer to and away from the catalytic centers, thus reducing the possibility of secondary reactions which cause coke formation and catalyst deactivation."
[5] "The superior catalytic performance of hierarchical Beta zeolite (N-Beta) was due to eliminated diffusion constraints contributed by the intercrystalline mesopores."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The larger molecular size of toluene compared to benzene influences its alkylation with benzyl alcohol when using hierarchically mesoporous and microporous mordenites, highlighting the benefits of introduced mesopores.
2. Acid washing after base treatment significantly enhances the external surface area of samples by removing deposited aluminum species from the zeolite framework.
3. External acid sites in mesoporous ZSM-5 offer greater accessibility to guest molecules, resulting in a 5-fold increase in catalytic activity compared to microporous ZSM-5 in aromatic benzylation.
4. Incorporating mesopores into zeolites or decreasing zeolite crystalline size mitigates diffusion limitations, accelerating mass transfer to and from catalytic centers and minimizing secondary reactions like coke formation and catalyst deactivation.
5. The enhanced catalytic performance of hierarchical Beta zeolite (N-Beta) is attributed to the elimination of diffusion constraints due to intercrystalline mesopores.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 甲苯与苯基乙醇的烷基化反应中，介孔蒙脱石和微孔蒙脱石证实了引入介孔的优势，因为其分子尺寸大于苯。
2. 酸洗后进行碱处理，显著增加了样品的外部表面积，这是由于从框架中完全去除沉积的铝物种的结果。
3. 在芳香基苄基化中，介孔ZSM-5上的外部酸位点对客体分子具有更高的可及性，导致其催化活性比微孔ZSM-5高出约5倍。
4. 将介孔引入到沸石中或减少沸石晶粒尺寸可以有效克服扩散限制，加速向和远离催化中心的物质传输，从而降低导致焦炭形成和催化剂失活的二次反应的可能性。
5. 层状结构的β沸石（N-Beta）的增强催化性能归因于消除由介晶间介孔带来的扩散约束。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
