<quotes>

[1] "The catalytic performance for the catalytic cracking reactions of bulky molecules are strongly correlated with the accessibility of the catalytically active sites, which is decided by both the pore size and the pore connectivity in the zeolites."
[2] "For example, hierarchical ZSM-5 aggregates, synthesized by the addition of surfactant, exhibited excellent catalytic activity in LDPE cracking. The improved catalytic performance in the reactions involving large molecules was attributed to the improved accessibility to the active sites."
[3] "The introduction of mesopores into zeolites allows for bulky sulfur compounds, such as DBT and 4,6-DMDBT, to enter the zeolite micropores, thus improving accessibility to the active sites."
[4] "Such a novel hierarchically porous structure offering accelerated mass transport and improved accessibility to active sites can not only increase catalytic activities and lifetime of OMMS-ZSM-5 in the bulky-molecule cracking process and methanol-to-olefins reaction (1007) but also greatly enhance catalytic performances of OMMS-Beta in gas-phase and liquid-phase acid-catalyzed reactions involving bulky molecules."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The catalytic performance in cracking reactions of bulky molecules is significantly influenced by the accessibility of active sites, which depends on the pore size and connectivity in zeolites. 

2. Hierarchical ZSM-5, when synthesized with surfactant addition, showed enhanced catalytic activity in LDPE cracking. This improvement was attributed to better access to active sites due to improved accessibility.

3. The inclusion of mesopores in zeolites enables larger sulfur compounds to enter the micropores, thereby enhancing access to active sites for reactions.

4. The unique hierarchical porous structure of OMMS-ZSM-5 and OMMS-Beta not only increases their catalytic activities and lifetime in the cracking of large molecules but also boosts their performances in acid-catalyzed reactions involving bulky molecules.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 大分子的催化性能在很大程度上依赖于分子筛中的孔径大小和孔隙连通性，决定了活性位点的可接近性。

2. 在通过表面活性剂合成的分层ZSM-5中，表现出优异的LDPE裂解活性。这种改善归因于对活性位点的改进可接近性。

3. 在分子筛中引入介孔结构使较大的硫化物能够进入微孔，从而提高活性位点的可接近性。

4. OMMS-ZSM-5和OMMS-Beta的独特分级孔结构不仅增加了它们在大分子裂解过程和甲醇转化为烯烃反应中的活性和寿命，而且还大大提升了它们在涉及大分子的气相和液相酸催化反应中的性能。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
