<quotes>
[1] "In Situ Crystallization of the Active Composite Partners Hierarchically porous Zeolite composites can be prepared by partial crystallization of mesoporous molecular sieves such as MCM-41 in the presence of appropriate microporous structure-directing agents."
[2] "Ex Situ Crystallization of the Active Composite Partners Hierarchically structured zeolite composites can also be prepared by first impregnation of mesoporous silicas (SBA-15) (433) or mesoporous cellular foams (MCFs) (227) with zeolite seeds and then hydrothermal treatment."
[3] "Complete Crystallization of Active Composite Partners Ideally, a hierarchically porous catalyst should possess both macropores and mesopores of uniform pore size within the macropore walls which in turn need to be constructed from tunable microporous zeolite units."
[4] "In conclusion, many templating routes were attempted to introduce meso- or macropores into zeolites during the past decades, and they can generally be divided into either direct templating or indirect templating routes."
[5] "The postsynthesis of hierarchical zeolites with high structural stability and the design of such multimodal porous zeolitic materials with a better understanding of the cooperation between different pore systems still remain great challenges."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Hierarchically porous zeolite composites can be prepared through in situ crystallization of mesoporous molecular sieves, like MCM-41, with appropriate microporous structure-directing agents.
2. Ex situ crystallization of zeolite composites can be achieved by impregnating mesoporous silicas or cellular foams with zeolite seeds followed by hydrothermal treatment.
3. Hierarchically porous catalysts ideally contain uniform macropores and mesopores within the macropore walls, which are made from tunable microporous zeolite units.
4. Templating routes, both direct and indirect, have been attempted to introduce meso- or macropores into zeolites over the past decades.
5. Challenges remain in synthesizing hierarchical zeolites with high structural stability and designing multimodal porous materials with a better understanding of pore cooperation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在原位条件下，可以通过介孔分子筛（如MCM-41）与合适的微孔结构导向剂结晶来制备具有分级孔结构的沸石复合材料。
2. 通过浸渍介孔硅或多孔泡沫状材料中添加沸石种子并随后进行水热处理，可以实现离散位点结晶制备沸石复合材料。
3. 理想的分级孔催化剂应包含在大孔壁内的均匀孔径大小的微孔和介孔，这些孔由可调的微孔沸石单元组成。
4. 过去几十年里，已经尝试了直接和间接的模板化途径来引入介孔或大孔到沸石中。
5. 在合成具有高结构稳定性的分级沸石以及设计具有更好孔隙合作理解的多模式多孔材料方面仍存在挑战。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
