I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The liquid-phase catalytic conversion of bulky molecules mainly takes place on the external surface of microporous zeolites and is an important probe reaction to evaluate the structural advantages of hierarchical zeolites. The FriedelCrafts (FC) alkylation is one of the most important approaches to produce value-added aromatic compounds in industry via the formation of new carboncarbon bonds between aromatic hydrocarbons and other aromatic agents. (726) Among these alkylations, the benzylation of aromatic hydrocarbons (benzene, (162,574,576) toluene, (577) and mesitylene, (249,409,560,561,575,578) etc.) with benzyl alcohol (BA) or benzyl chloride (BC) in the liquid phase can produce diphenylmethane and substituted diphenylmethanes, which are important intermediates widely used in pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, fine chemicals, dyes, and many other chemicals. (727) These reactions can be catalyzed by Lewis or Brnsted acids. Zeolites, such as H-ZSM-5, (562,563) H-Beta, (564) HY, (565) and H-SAPO-5, (566) have been widely used in benzylation reactions due to their strong acidity, shape selectivity, and high hydrothermal/chemical stability. However, microporous zeolites are less active and deactivate rapidly in the benzylation of bulky reactants due to their relatively small micropore size. (567570) Besides, as the contacting time of the reactants with the catalysts increases, further alkylation and isomerization of the alkylated products can occur. Polyalkylation, isomerization, transalkylation, dealkylation, and polymerization are all the possible side reactions under the normal reaction conditions. Thus, it is very important to choose appropriate catalysts to decrease these side reactions. Christensen et al. (563) demonstrated that the mesoporous zeolite catalyst had higher benzene conversion (18% vs 15%) and higher selectivity to ethylbenzene (83% vs 74%) than conventional zeolites in the catalytic alkylation of benzene with ethene, although the conventional zeolite catalyst had almost twice as many acidic sites as the mesoporous zeolite catalyst. This activity difference can be attributed to improved mass transport in the mesoporous zeolite. Thus, hierarchically porous zeolites could be the ideal catalysts for the FC alkylation involving large molecules due to the facile diffusion through the meso-macropores, high stabilities, low apparent activation energy of the crystalline zeolite frameworks, and easy accessibility of acid sites to bulky reactants. (329,571,572)
4.1.1.1.1. FC Alkylation Using Benzyl Alcohol (BA) as the Aromatic Agent
A hexagonally ordered mesoporous molecular sieve with a 1.7 nm thick wall of crystalline MFI-like microporous framework exhibited much higher catalytic conversion (44 wt %) in alkylation of benzyl with benzyl alcohol than both conventional Beta zeolite (19 wt %) and ordered mesoporous amorphous materials Al-MCM-4 (8 wt %). (162) This was due to the abundant accessible external acid sites in the as-synthesized mesoporous molecular sieves, as compared with Al-MCM-41 or conventional zeolite Beta. The acid number was characterized by titration of the zeolites using triphenylphosphine oxide (TPPO) as the probe molecule while the acid strength was measured by 31P magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (MAS NMR). (728,729) The bulky TPPO molecules are too large for the 12-member-ring micropores and thus can only reach the external acid sites on the mesopore surfaces. It was found that the 31P NMR chemical shift of TPPO increased with increasing binding affinity toward Brnsted acid sites. (728) The crystalline mesoporous molecular sieves titrated with TPPO exhibited 31P NMR signals up to 55.7 ppm compared with 44.3 ppm for Al-MCM-41, indicating that the mesoporous molecular sieves exhibit stronger acid sites than Al-MCM-41. Conventional zeolite Beta also showed NMR signals up to 55.7 ppm, but the amount of the strongest external acid sites was less than that of crystalline mesoporous molecular sieves. When the mesoporosity was introduced into bulky Beta zeolite resulting in the formation of mesoporous Beta zeolite with a nanosponge morphology, improved catalytic turnovers and extended lifetime in benzene alkylation with benzyl alcohol were observed. (574) The benzene conversion remained as high as 80 wt % even after 50 h. In contrast, the purely microporous Beta zeolite gave a benzene conversion of less than 20 wt % and deactivated rapidly after about a 10 h reaction (Figure 34). The high catalytic performance was attributed to the higher concentrations of accessible external acid sites on the large accessible surface due to the introduction of mesopores in the Beta zeolites. The 31PMAS NMR measurements proved that the quantity of the strongest external acid sites of mesoporous molecular sieves is much larger than that of bulky Beta zeolites. (162) These accessible active sites could catalyze the alkylation reactions even after active sites inside the zeolite micropores were deactivated. Similar results were observed for hierarchically porous zeolites with other morphologies, such as MFI nanosheets, MTW nanosponge, and MRE nanosponge. (574) Li et al. (576) prepared a series of hierarchically mesoporous mordenites by three different methods, which are acid leaching followed by base leaching (the samples HMOR-A1 treated with 72 mL of 0.2 M NaOH and HMOR-A2 treated with 87 mL of 0.2 M NaOH), soft templating using [3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl][hexadecyldimethylammonium] chloride (the sample HMOR-TPHAC), and hard templating using carbon black (the sample HMOR-carbon). The HMOR-A1 and HMOR-A2 had highest BET surface area (524 vs 530 m2 g1), which are 1.4 times higher than that of H-mordenites (378 m2 g1) and 1.7 times higher than that of HMOR-carbon (317 m2 g1). They further compared their catalytic performances in the liquid-phase alkylation of benzene with benzyl alcohol. The conversion of benzyl alcohol over HMOR-A1 and HMOR-A2 was near 100% after 3 h, but the conversion of benzyl alcohol on HMOR-TPHAC and HMOR-carbon was less than 3%. This was because diphenylmethane which was formed has a large size, and the conventional mordenite does not provide enough space for this molecule to diffuse through the micropores while the introduced mesopores enabled diphenylmethane to escape from the mordenite crystal.
Figure 34 Figure 34. (A) Schematic representations of the FC alkylations taken at the external active sites and internal active sites of zeolites. (B, C) Conversion of benzyl alcohol over bulk Beta, nano-Beta, nano-Beta with external-acid poisoning by triphenylphosphine, and nano-Beta with micropore blocking by coke, plotted as a function of reaction times: 01 h (B) and 0120 h (C). Adapted with permission from ref (574). Copyright 2014 Elsevier.
Compared with benzene, toluene has a larger molecular size of 0.54 nm. Its alkylation with benzyl alcohol over hierarchically mesoporous mordenites and microporous mordenites confirmed the superiority of the introduced mesopores. (577) Hierarchically porous mordenites were prepared by a sequential post-treatment method based on a commercial mordenite with a Si/Al molar ratio of 15. (577) The hierarchically porous mordenites with acidbaseacid treatment (HM-ABA) had a mesopore volume of 0.32 cm3 g1, which was three times higher than that of the parent mordenite (0.10 cm3 g1). The HM-ABA also had the highest external surface area (119 m2 g1), which was more than 3 times higher compared with that of H-mordenites (36 m2 g1) and more than twice compared with that of acid-leached mordenite (49 m2 g1) and acidbase-leached mordenite (58 m2 g1). The results indicated that the acid-washing after base treatment can significantly increase the external surface area of the samples, which resulted from the complete removal of the deposited aluminum species from the framework. The high mesopore volume and external surface area of HM-ABA led to more accessible acid sites and accelerated mass transport. The apparent reaction rate constant for acidbaseacid-leached mordenite (HM-ABA) was 15 times higher than that for H-mordenite and twice those of acid-leached mordenite and acidbase-leached mordenite. (577) Mesitylene has a kinetic molecular diameter of 0.87 nm, which is much larger than the entrance size of micropores in zeolite ZSM-5. Therefore, these bulky molecules cannot penetrate into the inner microchannels of ZSM-5, and the alkylation can happen only on the accessible external surface of the catalyst. (383) The introduction of meso- or macroporosity into microporous zeolites can facilitate the access of mesitylene to more active centers and thus leads to excellent catalytic conversions. Besides, the amount of accessible acid sites is the determinant of the product selectivity since the desired alkylation of benzene to 1-benzyl-2,4,6-trimethylbenzene cannot take place in the micropores whereas the side etherification of benzyl alcohol to dibenzyl ether can. (730) The base treatment of microporous Beta zeolites can significantly increase the accessible framework surface area and thus the number of accessible framework Brnsted acid sites. The hierarchically porous Beta zeolites prepared by base treatment exhibited excellent catalytic properties and remarkable product selectivity in the benzylation of mesitylene. (575) Zhang et al. (573) synthesized self-pillared pentasil (SPP) zeolite by an MFI/MEL intergrowth and used it in mesitylene alkylation (Figure 35A). The orthogonally connected nanosheets created a permanent network of mesopores (Figure 35B). (158) Such nanometer-scale diffusion lengths offered fast transport even for molecules with a small micropore diffusivity. The catalytic properties of SPP zeolites at Si/Al of 253 were compared with those of pillared MFI prepared by hydrothermal synthesis via the cooperative assembly between silica and an organic surfactant functionalized with a diquaternary ammonium group, (158) three-dimensionally ordered mesoporous-imprinted (3Dom-i)) MFI, and three conventional MFI zeolite catalysts with a crystal size of 1.4 μm. The number of accessible acid sites was determined by a titrant molecule, 2,6-ditert-butylpyridine (DTBP), which cannot enter the zeolite micropores. Specifically, 30% and 45% of the acid sites in pillared MFI and SPP, respectively, were accessible by a molecule that cannot penetrate into the internal micropores. But only 2% of acid sites were accessible in a micrometer-sized zeolite crystal. Due to these more accessible acid sites, the pseudo-first-order rate constant for the alkylation of bulky mesitylene by benzyl alcohol increased by more than 2 orders of magnitude (Figure 35C). Jin and co-workers (409,560) systematically investigated the influence of mesopores on product selectivity in the benzylation of mesitylene over different ZSM-5 catalysts with various mesoporosities. Mesoporous ZSM-5 zeolites were obtained by the assembly via ionic interaction between sulfonic-acid-functionalized or nonfunctionalized ZSM-5 zeolite nanocrystals and counter cationic surfactant CTAB under microwave [Meso ZSM-5 (SO3H-CTAB)-MW and Meso ZSM-5 (CTAB)-MW] and hydrothermal synthesis [ZSM-5 (SO3H-CTAB)-HT] and ZSM-5 (HT)] (Figure 36A). Whichever synthesis treatment is used, the sulfonic acid functionalizations of zeolite crystals led to a large surface area and porous volume while microwave treatment induced mesoporosity. The surface area SBET and mesopore volume Vmeso varied as Meso ZSM-5 (SO3H-CTAB)-MW (529 m2 g1 and 0.75 cm3 g1) > Meso ZSM-5 (CTAB)-MW (500 m2 g1 and 0.35 cm3 g1) > ZSM-5 (SO3H-CTAB)-HT (388 m2 g1 and 0.21 cm3 g1) > ZSM-5 (HT) (348 m2 g1 and 0.11 cm3 g1), while the acid strengths were found to be approximately similar to the conversional ZSM-5 [ZSM-5 (HT)]. (409,560) The external acid sites in mesoporous ZSM-5 were more accessible for the guest molecules, leading to a nearly 5-fold increased catalytic activity than that of microporous ZSM-5 in the aromatic benzylation (Figure 36B). (409,560) The selectivity of desired monobenzylated aromatic molecules was determined by the degree of mesoporosity. As a result, mesoporous zeolite ZSM-5 with the larger mesopore volume exhibited increased selectivity toward the desired bulky monobenzylated aromatics than those of microporous ZSM-5, which had dibenzyl ether as a major product due to the diffusion limitation.
Figure 35 Figure 35. Morphology and FriedelCrafts catalytic alkylation properties of the pure-silica self-pillared pentasil (SPP) zeolite particles. (A) Schematic representation of benzylation of mesitylene (MES) with benzyl alcohol (BA). (B) High-resolution TEM image of an SPP lamella viewed across its thin dimension; the FFT from the lamella is consistent with the [010]-zone axis of zeolite MFI. (C) Plots for rate constant and selectivity determination for mesitylene alkylation reactions over zeolite catalysts: 1.4 μm commercial MFI, 3DOm-i MFI, pillared MFI and SPP (Si/Al = 253). Reproduced with permission from ref (573). Copyright 2012 The American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Figure 36 Figure 36. (A) Various ZSM-5 catalysts with different degrees of mesoporosity prepared by different synthesis methods. (B) Benzylation of mesitylene (MES) with benzyl alcohol (BA) over various ZSM-5 catalysts. Adapted with permission from ref (560). Copyright 2012 Elsevier.
4.1.1.1.2. FC Alkylation Using BC as an Aromatic Agent
Dai et al. prepared hierarchical mordenite zeolite nanorod bundles by using organosilane functioned fumed silica as the silicon source. (578) The organic moiety linked on the surface of fumed silica inhibited the growth of zeolite crystal into a large size, leading to the assembled nanorod bundles. Samples prepared by organosilane functioned fumed silica with different ratios gave different BET surface areas, external surface areas, and mesoporous volumes. (578) The size of mordenite nanorods decreased as the organic function degree increased, leading to samples with a higher mesoporous volume (0.15 cm3 g1) and larger external surface area (148 m2 g1). The hierarchical mordenite nanorod bundles exhibited increased accessible active sites and thus increased benzylation (78.9 wt %) as compared with conventional mordenite (13.4 wt %). A similar phenomenon was observed for the spherical-like self-assemblies of ZSM-5 nanocrystals with controllable hierarchical architectures, which were prepared by using organofunctionalized mesoporous silica as the silica source. These spontaneously stacked nanocrystals had a large accessible surface area, and therefore, 67% of the Brnsted acid sites were accessible to bulky molecules. These hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite nanocrystals showed significantly high benzyl chloride conversion in the benzylation of mesitylene, and the reaction rate increased by more than 50 times as compared to that achieved by conventional ZSM-5. (561)
4.1.1.2. FriedelCrafts Acylation of Arenes
The FriedelCrafts (FC) acylation of arenes is an important industrial process to synthesize aromatic ketones, which are widely utilized in pharmaceuticals, fragrance products, fine chemicals, and so on. (731) It involves the reaction of an aromatic hydrocarbon with acylating agents such as acyl chlorides (ACs) and acid anhydrides (AAs) in the presence of acid catalyst. (732) Recently, economical and ecofriendly heterogeneous solid catalysts have gained more attention. (733,734) Among these materials, zeolites exhibit a high activity in FC acylation due to their strong acid sites and high stability. (735737) Zeolite Beta and Y are known to be the most efficient catalysts for the FC acylation of aromatic compounds due to their relatively large 12-membered-ring micropores. (582,738) However, they still suffer from fast deactivation due to the adsorption of heavy products and the permanent deposition of carbonaceous substances. This problem can only be solved by introducing mesopores into the zeolite framework. (739) The FC acylation of anisole with acetic anhydride produced p-methoxy acetophenone (p-MAP) and o-methoxy acetophenone. All the catalysts showed a selectivity >99% for the product p-MAP. p-MAP yield based on the initial amount of acetic anhydride was thus used to compare the catalytic performance. (579) Hierarchical zeolite Beta was rapidly synthesized within 4 h with a high yield using a layered silicate precursor (H-kanemite) as the silica nutrient (Figure 37A). (579) The obtained hierarchical zeolite Beta consisted of self-sustaining macron-sized zeolitic aggregates assembled by uniform nanosized crystals and possessed relatively narrowly distributed intercrystalline mesopores around 20 nm with a high pore volume and external surface area. Their catalytic properties were investigated in the FC acylation reaction and were compared with commercially available or traditional Beta zeolites. Traditional Beta with Si/Al of 20 (T-Beta-20) and conventional Beta with Si/Al of 20 (C-Beta-20) gave 20% and 30% yield of p-MAP in 30 min, respectively. It reached 26% and 35% in 1 h, and 33% and 43% in 3 h, respectively. In contrast, the hierarchical Beta zeolites with Si/Al of 20 (N-Beta-20) gave an enhanced yield of p-MAP, which reached 45%, 50%, and 57% in 30 min, 1 h, and 3 h, respectively. The highly improved catalytic performance of hierarchical Beta zeolite (N-Beta) was due to eliminated diffusion constraints contributed by the intercrystalline mesopores (Figure 37B).
Figure 37 Figure 37. Morphology and FriedelCrafts acylation catalytic properties of the hierarchical Beta zeolite nanocrystals. (A) TEM image of the hierarchical Beta zeolite nanocrystals with HTEM image inset. (B) Comparison of p-methoxyacetophenone (p-MAP) over hierarchical Beta, traditional, and commercial Beta zeolites in the acylation of anisole with acetic anhydride. Adapted with permission from ref (579). Copyright 2017 Elsevier.
Similar results were obtained by Kore et al. (580) Hierarchical Beta zeolites with inter-/intracrystalline mesoporosity exhibited excellent activity and selectivity for the synthesis of a wide range of aromatic ketones. Generally, conventional MFI zeolites were not suitable for the FC acylation due to their relatively small 10-memberd-ring micropores. To solve this problem, Kim et al. (190) synthesized MFI zeolite nanosponges with disordered intracrystalline macropores. The abundant acid sites on the large external surface areas served as excellent catalytic active centers for the conversion of bulky aromatic compounds in the acylation of anisole with acetic anhydride. The hierarchically porous ZSM-5 zeolite thus exhibited a much higher anisole conversion (>80 wt %) when compared with micron-sized ZSM-5 crystals (14 wt %), which was attributed to the improved accessibility of the reactant molecules to the acid sites and the enhanced diffusion of the reactant/products through the intercrystalline mesopores. (582,583) Yan et al. (581) systematically reviewed the catalytic applications of hierarchical zeolites in a series of liquid-phase FC acylation reactions, focusing on hierarchical ZSM-5 and Beta prepared by different methods. The nanohierarchical materials exhibited a higher catalytic activity than conventional zeolites in all liquid-phase reactions. The reduced crystal size of nanozeolites in the hierarchically porous zeolites provided short diffusion channels and thus increased the conversion rate of the reactants. Besides, the deactivation rate of nanozeolites was greatly reduced because the short diffusion path in hierarchically porous zeolites aggregated by nanozeolites allowed the fast transport of reactants/products and prevented coke deposition in the micropores.
The catalytic applications of hierarchical zeolites in the liquid-phase FC alkylation and FC acylation are briefly reviewed. Hierarchical zeolites are more active and more selective than the conventional zeolites in these liquid-phase reactions, thus making them appropriate for the conversion of a bulky molecule. Moreover, the abundant accessible active sites are decisive in the liquid-phase reactions. Therefore, efforts should be made to develop hierarchical zeolite materials containing both exciting structures and an increased external surface.
In conclusion, the FriedelCrafts (FC) alkylation and the acylation of arenes are both important approaches to produce value-added aromatic compounds in industry. Zeolites are widely used in the FC reactions due to their strong acidity, shape selectivity, and high hydrothermal/chemical stability. However, conventional zeolites with relatively small micropores are less active and deactivate rapidly in FC reactions due to the serious adsorption of heavy products and the permanent deposition of carbonaceous substances in their relatively small micropore size. Thus, hierarchically porous zeolites are the ideal catalysts for FC reactions involving large molecules due to the facile diffusion through the meso-macropores and easy accessibility of acid sites to bulky reactants.
4.1.2. Beckmann Rearrangement
Zeolites with additional large pore systems are common strategies to reduce diffusion limitations in diffusion-controlled catalytic reactions. (85) Vapor-phase Beckmann rearrangement reactions are usually carried out over zeolite catalysts. The introduction of additional porosity, such as mesoporosity, into zeolites seemed to be the best choice. The Beckmann rearrangement of ketoximes into amides is known as a fundamental chemical reaction in organic synthesis. (740) One of the most important rearrangement reactions used in industry is the conversion of cyclohexanone and cyclododecanone oximes into ε-caprolactam and ω-laurolactam, which are widely used as raw materials for the production of polyamides such as nylon-6 and nylon-12. (584) Hierarchically porous (HP) SAPO-34 zeolite was synthesized by a one-pot soft templating method using dimethyl octadecyl[(3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl] ammonium chloride (DMOD). (585) The rodlike mesopores were interconnected within the micropores. The HP SAPO-34 contained both isolated weak Brnsted acid sites (red diamond, Figure 38A) and silanol sites within the mesopores (blue circle and square, Figure 38A). The obtained hierarchical zeolites showed excellent catalytic properties in the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to ε-caprolactam (Nylon-6), but their microporous counterparts showed lower catalytic activities and shortened lifetimes. The comparison shown in Figure 38B indicates that the conversion of the cyclic oxime over the microporous SAPO-34 significantly decreased (90% to about 40%) as the oxime size increased, while HP SAPO-34 retained almost 100% conversion, in spite of the cyclic oxime size. Similar results were also observed with hierarchical Beta zeolite, formed by the aggregates of nanozeolites with an additional mesoporosity. (584) Besides, hierarchically porous Silicalite-1, which contained Silicalite-1 nanocrystals and mesopores (520 nm), exhibited a high catalytic performance in the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to εε-caprolactam. (586) Under the same reaction conditions, hierarchically porous Silicalite-1 exhibited both higher conversion of cyclohexanone oxime (97% vs 60%) and higher selectivity (92% vs 42%) of ε-caprolactam as compared to conventional Silicalite-1. The high catalytic activity was attributed to the presence of hierarchical porosity for increasing the diffusion rate of the reactants (cyclohexanone oxime) and products (ε-caprolactam) in Beckmann rearrangement. (586) Erigoni et al. (587) further evaluated the catalytic performances of the desilicated ZSM-5 zeolites with different Si/Al ratios in the conversion of cyclohexanone oxime to ε-caprolactam. They found that the hierarchical catalysts exhibited an increased selectivity toward ε-caprolactam, compared with the microporous H-ZSM-5 zeolite. The superior catalytic performance was due to the improved diffusion and the enhanced accessibility of acid sites through the intracrystalline mesopores.Figure 38 Figure 38. (A) Graphical illustration of a hierarchically porous SAPO-34 catalyst containing isolated silanol sites (a) within the mesopores and isolated Brnsted sites (b) in the micropores. Catalytic performance of microporous SAPO-34 and hierarchically porous SAPO-34 (HP SAPO-34) in the vapor-phase Beckmann rearrangement of (B) cyclohexanone oxime and (C) cyclooctenone oxime. Adapted with permission from ref (585). Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society.In conclusion, the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime is a reaction that either proceeds on the external surface of zeolites or is severely diffusion-limited, thus benefiting from an additional larger-pore transport system in the zeolites. The hierarchically porous zeolites show high selectivity to ε-caprolactam along with an increased reaction rate. The largest improvement in catalytic performances was found in these well-connected mesopores within the microporous framework which are accessible to the external surface.
4.1.3. FischerTropsch Synthesis Process
The FischerTropsch synthesis (FTS) process is a widely used heterogeneous catalytic process for the production of clean hydrocarbon fuels or chemicals from syngas (CO + H2) derived from nonpetroleum feedstocks such as natural gas, coal, or biomass. (741) Recently, the FTS process has attracted great interest due to the global demand to reduce the dependence on petroleum for producing fuels and chemicals. The key challenge for FTS is the control of product distributions, which are typically unselective and generally follow the AndersonSchulzFlory (ASF) distribution. (742) Numerous studies have been carried out to synthesize efficient FTS catalysts with high C5+ selectivity. (743) Co nanoparticle (NP)-supported catalysts are widely used due to their high selectivity toward n-paraffins, and the acidic zeolites are commonly used as carriers for FTS catalyst. (743746) However, severe diffusion limits in conventional zeolites lead to high CH4 and C2C4 selectivities. (747) Thus, hierarchically porous zeolites are considered to be promising supports in bifunctional FTS catalysts, which provide improved product selectivity toward long-chain hydrocarbons. Besides, sintering, which is the main cause of deactivation for cobalt-based FTS catalysts, (748,749) can be prevented by maximizing the spatial distribution of active-phase crystallites over the support surface. (749,750) Thus, the availability of accessible surface area is crucial when designing stable FTS catalysts. Sartipi and co-workers (593,594) reported that the large external surface areas of hierarchically mesoporous MFI zeolites enabled the large loading amounts of Co NPs and improved their accessibility to reactants, thus leading to high catalytic activity in the FTS process and low selectivity of short-chain hydrocarbons (<C4) when compared with the microporous counterparts. Hierarchically porous ultrastable Y (USY) and Y zeolites were also used as catalytic supports for FTS. (588,589) The mesoporous H-USY zeolites used as supporting materials for Co NPs can improve catalytic activity. (588) The increased mesopore surface areas of the hierarchical zeolites enabled a larger loading of cobalt onto the samples (593,594) and improved their accessibility to reactant molecules, thus ameliorating the activity and selectivity performance of the bifunctional reactions in comparison with their microporous counterparts. (751) Peng et al. (589) further reported the advantages of mesoporosity in FTS. The Co-supported mesoporous Y zeolites exhibited an improved catalytic conversion as compared to Co-supported microporous Y zeolites. The MCM-22 molecular sieve, a layered zeolite with MWW structure, was constructed by layers linked together along the c-axis by oxygen bridges and having two independent multidimensional pore systems. Besides, its special thin platelet morphology resulted in high external surface area. (590,591) This new micro- and mesoporous material with controlled acidbase properties was also employed as a support for Co NPs. (752) Co/MCM-22 contained a smaller and uniform Co nanocluster than the sample using amorphous SiO2 as carriers (Co/SiO2). Co/MCM-22 exhibited the highest selectivity to long-chain hydrocarbons (C5+) when using MCM-22 supports with the appropriate Si/Al ratio. The higher C5+ selectivity was attributed to particular properties of the Co particles, indicating that the structure of the MCM-22 played an important role in determining and controlling the selectivity in FTS. (752) ITQ-2 and ITQ-6 zeolites were prepared by the delamination of layered zeolite precursors with the MWW (MCM-22) and FER (ferrierite) structure, respectively. ITQ-6 contained a larger fraction of accessible external surface than ITQ-2, which was due to the distinct rearrangement of the layers in the two materials that originated from the different structures and dimensions of the zeolitic layers in ITQ-2 and ITQ-6. These delaminated zeolites, with a very high external surface area of more than 600 m2 g1, were found to be efficient supports for dispersing active metal phases. (592) For a comparison, a mesoporous silica MCM-41 and a commercial amorphous SiO2 were used as supports. MCM-41 had a narrow distribution of pores in the mesopore range. The pore diameter of MCM-41 calculated by the BJH method was observed to be 3.1 nm while the delaminated ITQ-2 and ITQ-6 zeolites exhibited a wide pore-size distribution ranging from micro- to macropores. The Co-supported pure-silica ITQ-2 and ITQ-6 exhibited a much higher reducibility (8889 wt %) as compared to MCM-41 (38 wt %). The C5+ selectivities over the Co-supported ITQ-2 and ITQ-6 were approximately 72%, which were much higher than those using mesoporous silica MCM-41 (Co/MCM-41, 45 wt %) and amorphous SiO2 as supports (Co/SiO2, 65 wt %).Constructing a special hierarchically porous zeolite catalyst with a coreshell structure is another effective way to increase the selectivity toward desired products. He et al. (595) developed a hierarchically porous ZSM-5 zeolite with a coreshell structure by coating the H-ZSM-5 membranes on the surface of the preshaped Co/SiO2 pellets. The prepared hierarchically porous zeolite with a coreshell structure exhibited an improved selectivity toward light hydrocarbons and efficiently inhibited the formation of long-chain hydrocarbons of C11+. Besides, the catalyst was stable in a 100 h test reaction. Kim et al. (596) prepared Co NP-encapsulated mesoporous zeolite nanosponge (Co/NS-MFI) for FTS. The zeolite support was constructed by disordered stacking of 2.5 nm thick MFI zeolite nanolayers, which had a narrow mesopore distribution centered at 4 nm. The Co/NS-MFI exhibited a similar CO conversion (11.2 vs 11.3 mmol h1) as compared to the conventional alumina-based catalysts (Co/γ-Al2O3). However, the product distributions were completely different. Co/NS-MFI showed an increased selectivity toward branched hydrocarbons in the gasoline range (C5C11) while Co/γ-Al2O3 exhibited higher selectivity toward hydrocarbons in the diesel range (C12+). The high selectivity of the Co/NS-MFI catalyst to gasoline-range hydrocarbons was due to the highly accessible strong Brnsted acid sites in the hierarchically porous zeolite support. (597) From the above results, it is believed that the ultrathin zeolite frameworks and additional porosity due to the stacking of these nanolayers offered a short diffusion path for branched hydrocarbons. (596) Similarly, Han et al. (598) realized the large loading amounts of Co NPs on mesoporous ZSM-5 (Co/MFI-NS) and Beta zeolite nanosponges (Co/Beta-NS), resulting in Co nanowires or networks that filled throughout the mesoporous channels (Figure 39AC). The catalytic conversion rate of these samples was measured in the FTS reaction. For a comparison, an ordered amorphous mesoporous aluminosilicate (MCM-41) was used to support the same amount of Co. Figure 39D indicates the FTS catalytic performance depending on the Co loading on the catalysts. This result showed that the Co/NS-zeolites achieved much higher CO conversion rates as compared with the Co/MCM with the same Co loading. The excellent catalytic activities of these supported mesoporous zeolite nanosponges indicated that a large portion of the surfaces was accessible for high catalytic activity through the zeolitic micropore apertures located on the mesopore wall. (598) Figure 39 Figure 39. STEM images of (A) 30 Co/Beta-NS and (B) 30 Co/MFINS (insets are corresponding high-magnification STEM images). (C) Schematic illustration of Co/zeolite nanosponge participating in FischerTropsch synthesis and the diffusion pathway for reactants and products. (D) CO conversion rates in FischerTropsch synthesis plotted vs the Co loading amount on Beta-NS, MFI-NS, and MCM-41. Adapted with permission from ref (598). Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society.In conclusion, the FTS is a structure-sensitive reaction exhibiting maximum catalytic activity when the cobalt particle diameter is in the range 46 nm. Hierarchically ordered porous zeolites having a high surface area and a narrow pore-size distribution have been used as supports for preparing Co-based FTS catalysts with the aim of improving Co dispersion and controlling the product distributions by confining the cobalt particles inside the mesopores. The introduced meso- or macropores in the hierarchically porous zeolites also improved their accessibility to reactant molecules, benefiting the activity and selectivity of the FTS reactions compared to their purely microporous counterparts. Thus, hierarchically porous zeolites with large surface areas, ordered and uniform mesopores, and abundant meso- or macropores are desired catalysts for FTS synthesis.
4.1.4. Hydroconversion Process
The hydroconversion processes, including hydrocracking (HDC), hydroisomerization (HDI), and hydrodesulfurization (HDS), require bifunctional catalysts containing both acidic and metal functions. The balance between these two functions plays a key role in the design of novel hydroconversion catalysts. Nanozeolites and hierarchically porous zeolites have been widely used as supports due to their appropriate acidic properties, improved molecular transport properties, and high metal dispersion.
4.1.4.1. Hydrocracking Process
Unlike fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) which produces gasoline from heavier oil fractions based on a monofunctional acidic catalyst, hydrocracking (HDC) produces high-value middle-distillates (diesel and kerosene) and base oils from the upgrading of vacuum gas oil (VGO), light cycle oil (LCO), and demetallized oil (DMO) fractions by a hydrogen-addition process using a bifunctional (acidic and metallic) catalyst. (753) HDC catalysts are bifunctional catalysts with both hydrogenation and acid functions, in which the acidic components assist in the cracking and isomerization activities while the supported metals assist in hydrogenation activity. (754) Currently, many efforts are made to develop new types of catalysts based on hierarchical zeolites in the HDC reaction. (672,755,756) Introducing mesopores into the zeolites or reducing the zeolite crystalline size can efficiently overcome the diffusion limitations and significantly accelerate the mass transfer to and away from the catalytic centers, thus reducing the possibility of secondary reactions which cause coke formation and catalyst deactivation. (757) Therefore, catalyst supports with open hierarchical pore structures contribute to high catalytic activity.
Hierarchical USY zeolite was prepared using commercially available zeolite HY (Zeolyst, CBV760) as the original material by steaming and acid leaching. (599,307) Base leaching and the following acid-wash were also used on HY, according to the systematic studies of Groen et al. (491) The resultant hierarchical USY zeolite with an intracrystalline trimodal porosity containing micropores (ca. 1 nm, from the zeolite), smaller spongelike mesopores (ca. 3 nm, from base desilication), and large mesopores (ca. 30 nm, from steaming and acid leaching) was used as a cosupport with alumina for the NiMoS2 catalyst in the HDC of VGO. (324) The trimodal porosities in the hierarchical USY zeolite crystals were interconnected in a single zeolite crystal. Owing to the rapid mass transfer of hydrocracking products from the micropores, the secondary cracking was thus almost fully suppressed. (8) The Pt/hierarchical USY zeolite showed high selectivity toward higher-boiling-point fractions and exhibited extremely low coke formation. Besides, the coke formation over the Pt/hierarchical USY zeolite was significantly reduced as compared to that in the commercial catalyst, indicating a higher catalyst stability which is a direct benefit of its enhanced porosity.
Hierarchically porous zeolite with various morphologies, such as coreshell and fibers, were reported. (601,604) For example, hierarchically coreshell structured ZSM-5 composite, containing an ordered mesoporous aluminosilicate shell and a mesoporous ZSM-5 core, was obtained by a one-pot two-step treatment including a controlled desilication in NaOH solution and a self-assembly with the help of a triblock copolymer. (601) The obtained sample contained interconnected mesopores and a gradient acidity distribution from shell to core. Further incorporation of Pt nanoparticles into the mesoporous shell resulted in a highly efficient catalyst for the n-hexadecane hydrocracking (Figure 40A). The catalysts achieved a higher n-hexadecane conversion and a higher C5C11 selectivity than those of Pt/ZSM-5 in the whole reaction time (Figure 40B,C). (601) Hierarchical structured fibers constructed by NiOWO3 and Y zeolite nanocrystals were also used as catalysts for n-heptane hydrocracking. (604) The hierarchically porous zeolite composite fibers showed a high conversion of 98.81 wt % and a low coke amount of 0.40 wt % at 350 C. Such a superior performance was attributed to the enhanced accessibility due to the nonwoven mesh/network of catalytic hierarchically porous fibers which prevent the agglomeration of the zeolite nanoparticles. The nanosized nature of zeolite, the shape of the fibrous catalyst, and the mesoporous character of the hierarchically porous zeolite composite fibers accelerated diffusion and improved accessibility of the reactants to the catalyst active sites as proven by the high total n-heptane conversion and high hexane and isohexane selectivity in n-heptane hydrocracking.
Figure 40 Figure 40. (AC) Morphology and catalytic properties of the hydrocracking of n-hexadecane over Pt/MZAT0.2-PI0.02@MSA: (A) SEM images of pristine MZAT0.2-PI0.02@MSA with insets showing the schematic of the coreshell composite comprising a mesoporous ZSM-5 core and an Al-containing mesoporous silica shell together with HRTEM images of Pt/MZAT0.2-PI0.02@MSA and the size distribution of Pt particles; (B) conversion of n-hexadecane vs time on stream; and (C) the selectivity of C5C11 vs conversion over Pt/ZSM-5 and Pt/MZAT0.2-PI0.02@MSA. Adapted with permission from ref (601). Copyright 2014 The Royal Society of Chemistry. (D, E) Morphology and catalytic properties of the hydrodesulfurization of refractory 4,6-dimethyldibenzothiophene over CoMoS2/NTS-1: (D) SEM images of the NTS-1 sample with the inset of TEM images of CoMoS2/NTS-1; (E) dependence of the 4,6-DMDBT conversion on reaction time over various catalysts. Adapted with permission from ref (611). Copyright 2017 Elsevier. (F, G, H) Morphology and catalytic properties of the hydroisomerization of n-dodecane over hierarchical Pt/SAPO-11 catalysts: (F) SEM images of SAPO-11-H1 with insets of schematic of the hierarchical SAPO-11 together with HRTEM images and corresponding electron diffraction; (G) conversion of n-dodecane vs temperature; and (H) the selectivity to isomers vs conversion over Pt/SAPO-11 catalysts of C5C11 vs conversion over Pt/ZSM-5. Adapted with permission from ref (600). Copyright 2017 The Royal Society of Chemistry.
In conclusion, the hydrocracking process is achieved by the initial upgradation of polyaromatics which requires catalysts with efficient catalytic performances and low deactivation and the second hydrocracking process of high-molecular-weight hydrocarbons using a bifunctional and hierarchically porous catalyst (i.e., catalyst possessing both acid and metal functions). Therefore, one of the most important factors in the hydrocracking process is the choice of catalyst. Hierarchically porous zeolites with highly interconnected pores and strong zeolite characters are proven to be highly desirable.
4.1.4.2. Hydroisomerization Process
The hydroisomerization process of linear alkanes (n-alkanes) is a key refinery process to transform petroleum fractions into high-octane gasoline. n-Heptane is usually used as a model reactant for fundamental research. (758) The catalysts used for hydroisomerization reactions usually contain two components, i.e., noble metals for hydrogenation and acid sites for skeletal isomerization. However, no catalysts have been practically used for the hydroisomerization process of longer-chain alkanes (C7C8). According to the kinetic studies undertaken on the hydroisomerization of C5C7 alkanes over platinum-containing mordenite, the reaction rate for C5C6 alkanes was primarily constrained by the isomerization process on acid sites while, for n-alkanes (n > 6), it was mainly limited by diffusion. (759) The introduction of mesopores into the catalyst support can efficiently solve the problem. For example, a hexagonal structured mesoporous SAPO-5 was prepared by assembly of SAPO-5 building units and used as the catalyst support for the hydroisomerization of the long-chain hydrocarbon (1-octene). (760) The resulting mesoporous SAPO-5-based catalysts exhibited excellent branched isomer selectivity (2530%) compared to SAPO-5-based catalysts, which showed relatively low selectivity toward branched isomers (5%). Besides, the mesoporous SAPO-5 yielded higher 1-octene conversion (85% 1-octene) than most of the reported microporous SAPO-n. Liu et al. (761) synthesized Beta-MCM-41 composites combining the advantages of both the micropores from microporous zeolite Beta and the mesopores from the MCM-41. The catalysts were used as porous supports and showed excellent catalytic performance in the hydroisomerization of n-heptane. Furthermore, the effects of the micro-mesoporous structure with dealuminated mesopores in the hydroisomerization of n-heptane were investigated. (762) Tao et al. (600) prepared a series of hierarchical SAPO-11 zeolites (samples SAPO-11-H1 to SAPO-11-H12) via the dry-gel conversion of a silicoaluminophosphateorganosilane composite with different compositions. For SAPO-11-H1, it was assembled by nanosheets with thicknesses of 50 nm, which were in turn aggregated by SAPO-11 nanocrystals with sizes of 1050 nm (Figure 40F). The resultant hierarchical SAPO-11 zeolite microspheres had uniform intercrystalline mesoporosity (ca. 4.3 nm). After loading Pt nanoparticles, the catalysts were evaluated in the hydroisomerization of n-dodecane and showed much higher isomerization selectivity than the catalysts that used conventional SAPO-11 as supports (Pt/SAPO-11-C) at the same conversion, indicating that the introduced mesopores in the zeolites can significantly boost their catalytic performances (Figure 40G,H). Kim et al. (763) prepared hierarchically porous SAPO-11 with carbon templating (C2-SAPO-11). The carbon-templated SAPO-11 catalysts showed remarkably enhanced isomerization yields (84%) compared with Pt/SAPO-11 (44%). Thus, it was concluded that the introduction of secondary mesoporosity is beneficial for hydroisomerization. Hierarchically porous BEA zeolite aggregated by nanocrystals was also used as cosupports for the n-hexadecane hydroisomerization reaction. (764) The composite catalysts showed a catalytic activity 3.5 times greater than that of the purely microporous zeolite. Besides, the yield of isomers increased from 35 to 80 wt %.
In conclusion, the hydroisomerization reactions required bifunctional catalysts containing both the noble metals for (de)hydrogenation and the acid sites such as zeolites for skeletal isomerization. However, the narrow micropores in conventional zeolites usually cause severe diffusion limitation on the reactants and products. Therefore, it is of significant importance to shorten the diffusion length and expose more available acid sites. Integrating additional pores into microporous zeolites is an effective strategy to overcome the inherent diffusion limitations and improve the utilization of zeolites.
4.1.4.3. Hydrodesulfurization Process
To comply with strict environmental regulations, the complete removal of highly refractory molecules such as 4,6-dimethyldibenzothiophene (4,6-DM-DBT) from petroleum feedstock and especially from inferior diesel is highly required. The hydrodesulfurization (HDS) process is one of the most effective methods to convert the organic sulfur compounds into hydrogen sulfides. (603) The hydrocracking and hydroisomerization processes summarized above usually involve hydrogenation of sulfur-containing substances. In order to better distinguish the hydrotreating process of sulfur-containing substances and non-sulfur-containing substances, the hydrodesulfurization process is reviewed separately in this section. It is confirmed that noble-metal-supported catalysts have a much better hydrogenation performance than conventional metal sulfides in HDS. (602) γ-Al2O3 is the widely used commercial HDS catalyst support due to its low cost, large surface area, high stability, and excellent formability. (606) However, these commercial HDS catalysts produce diesels that hardly meet the strict specifications of diesel quality from increasingly lower-quality raw diesels. (765) Thus, novel HDS catalysts with high catalytic efficiency are desired. Both the active centers and the supports play an important role in the catalytic performance of catalysts. The pore structures of support materials are considered as the most important factors in deciding the final catalytic performance of the related HDS catalysts. (605) Zeolites have large surface areas that facilitate metal dispersion and unique zeolite frameworks that enable strong metalsupport interactions. (766) Moreover, the active metal clusters can be confined in the microporous zeolite channels. As discussed above, the further introduction of mesopores or macropores into microporous zeolites could significantly accelerate the mass transfer of the reactants and products to and from the active sites, thus making them ideal support or cosupport materials for HDS. (607) Sun et al. (767) were the first to report that the mesoporous Na-ZSM-5-supported Pt catalysts (Pd/MNZ-5) exhibited a much higher HDS conversion (86% vs 3%) than the catalysts that used conventional Na-ZSM-5 as supports (Pd/NZ-5). The sulfur removal by Pd/MNZ-5 was 29 times higher than for Pd/NZ-5. The bulky 4,6-DM-DBT molecule cannot enter the small micropores in MNZ-5; thus, they can only react on the outer surface of the zeolites and cannot reach many active centers. These results indicated that MNZ-5 with mesopores was a better catalyst support in the HDS of 4,6-DM-DBT than NZ-5 without mesopores, thus proving that mesoporosity in the supports played a positive role in sulfur removal. The catalytic performance of Pd-supported mesoporous Y, Beta, and ZSM-5 in the HDS was studied. (768) Mesoporous zeolite Y was prepared by using N,N-dimethyl-N-octadecyl-N-(3-triethoxysilylpropyl) ammonium [(C2H5O)3SiC3H6N(CH3)2C18H37]+ as a mesopore template. After loading Pd on the mesoporous zeolite HY, the catalyst showed a higher catalytic performance in the HDS of 4,6-DM-DBT. Compared with Pd-supported mesoporous zeolites Beta and ZSM-5 (80.0% and 73.4% for Pd/HBeta-M and Pd/HZSM-5-M, respectively), Pd/HY-M showed an improved catalytic performance in HDS of 4,6-DM-DBT (97.3%). The higher activity of Pd/HY-M than those of Pd/HBeta-M and Pd/HZSM-5-M was ascribed to the introduced mesoporosity and the larger micropores of zeolite Y than those of zeolite Beta and ZSM-5. Besides, both theory and experiment confirmed that 4,6-DM-DBT was too large to enter the internal micropores of zeolites ZSM-5 and Beta, but the micropores within zeolite Y are more accessible due to the additional interconnected mesoporosity. (768) Hierarchically porous mordenite made by crystalline nanosheet assemblies (NS-HMOR) with a large external surface area and intercrystalline mesoporous structure was also prepared as a support material in HDS catalysts. (608) After the dispersion of nickel and phosphorus species onto NS-HMOR, the obtained Ni2P/NS-HMOR catalyst exhibited a higher HDS activity (TOF = 1.9 × 103 s1) and better stability in 4,6-DM-DBT HDS than a porous SiO2-supported Ni2P catalyst. The large amount of accessible acidic hydroxyl groups on the NS-HMOR surface facilitated the formation of small Ni2P clusters on the external surface. Besides, the open micropores at the NS-HMOR surface helped to prevent their aggregation. Zhang et al. (611) prepared hierarchically porous zeolite TS-1 with crystalline nanorods (NTS-1) (Figure 40D) having a large accessible surface area. Following the introduction of Co and Mo species and sulfidation, the obtained catalyst (CoMoS2/NTS-1) showed a higher catalytic activity in the HDS of 4,6-DM-DBT than the γ-Al2O3 and binary SiO2TiO2-supported catalysts (Figure 40E).
Generally, zeolite nanocrystals were mixed with mesoporous alumina to form the zeolitealumina cosupport for HDS catalyst. The micro-mesoporous composite materials aim at combining the advantage of microporous and mesoporous materials and overcoming the disadvantages of both the weak acidity in the mesoporous zeolites and the diffusion limits in the microporous zeolites. For example, the as-synthesized ZSM-5 zeolite nanocrystals were enwrapped by mesoporous KIT-6 materials to form a composite support for HDS catalyst. (609) The mesoporous KIT-6 material was reported to possess a large pore diameter of 8 nm (610) and complementary pores between the two main channel systems, (612) which could enhance the accessibility of the active sites. The ZSM-5/KIT-6-supported NiMo sulfides showed a 4,6-DMDBT conversion double that of a conventional NiMo/Al2O3 catalyst under the same reaction conditions. Except the pore size, the morphology and mesochannel in the supports also had a great effect on the catalytic performance. Gao et al. (613) synthesized mesoporous Beta-SBA-15 zeolites with different morphologies, such as platelet (BS-PL), sphere (BS-SP), short-rod (BS-SR), and long-rod (BS-LR), and used them as catalyst supports for the HDS of FCC gasoline. The platelet BS-PL exhibited large pores and short mesochannels that accelerated the mass diffusion. The sphere BS-SP showed higher mesopore volumes that facilitate the bulky reactants to and away from the active sites. However, the short-rod BS-SR and long-rod BS-LR had long mesochannels and fewer mesopore cavities, resulting in a poor diffusion ability. The catalytic results confirmed that the platelet CoMo/Beta-SBA-15 exhibited the highest HDS conversion (97.6 wt %). Such an excellent HDS ability was attributed to the special morphology and appropriate mesochannels of the catalysts.
In conclusion, the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene and its derivatives in the crude oils is an important process for first-stage desulfurization in the refinery industry owing to its high activity, recyclable, and stability together with large sulfur tolerance. Generally, HDS catalysts are synthesized by dispersing active phases on a support. The support, providing high surface area to maximize active phase dispersion and strong acidic sites to give additional reactivity, is decisive for its final catalytic performance. The mesopores and/or the macropores of the catalysts are crucial factors for the dispersion of active metal species and the diffusion of the reactants and the products. Therefore, hierarchically porous zeolite-based supports with interconnected meso- or macropores, large surface area, strong acidity, and high hydrothermal/chemical stability are desired catalysts for the HDS reaction.
4.1.5. Oxidation Reaction
4.1.5.1. Direct Oxidation of Benzene to Phenol
Phenol and its derivatives are important raw materials for drugs, insecticides, and dyes in industry. (769,770) Currently, the dominant industrial route to produce phenol is the environmentally unfriendly partial oxidation of cumene. An alternative process is the direct oxidation of benzene to phenol (BTOP) with nitrous oxide. Almost 100% selectivity toward phenol was reported over Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites in this reaction. (614) However, the sole and relatively small micropores in ZSM-5 zeolite cause poor diffusivity of benzene and phenol, leading to the heavy coke deposition on the micropores and fast deactivation. An efficient solution is to introduce secondary pores into zeolites. Mesoporous Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites were prepared by a hydrothermal process and a subsequent desilication treatment. The resultant zeolites exhibited an improved catalytic performance and increased stability in the BTOP reaction due to the decreased diffusion path and increased accessibility to the active sites. (615) Shahid et al. (616) further subjected the purely microporous ZSM-5 zeolite (HM27) to alkali treatment (HM27_AT) and a combination of post-treatment sequences by steam-acid-alkali treatments (HM27_St_AcT_AT). The SBET and Vmeso of HM27, HM27_AT, and HM27_St_AcT_AT increased from 414 m2 g1 and 0.10 cm3 g1, to 434 m2 g1 and 0.21 cm3 g1, and to 489 m2 g1 and 0.49 cm3 g1. The catalytic performances of these three samples (HM27, HM27_AT, and HM27_St_AcT_AT) were tested in the direct oxidation of benzene to phenol. The HM27_St_AcT_AT sample exhibited not only the highest initial benzene conversion but also a high catalyst stability with time on stream. After 3 h of reaction, the benzene conversion of HM27_St_AcT_AT, HM27_AT, and HM27 decreased from 40% to 24%, 35% to 13%, and 29% to 6%, respectively. The decrease rates in the phenol selectivity of the HM27_St_AcT_AT, HM27_AT, and HM27 sample at 480 C are 9%, 78%, and 99% of its initial value, respectively. The results indicated that dealumination (steam treatment followed by acid treatment) can boost the catalytic performance more effectively than desilication (alkali treatment) in the BTOP reaction. The hierarchical Fe-ZSM-5 zeolite catalysts, which were directly synthesized by adding an amphiphilic organosilane (618,619) and a diquaternary ammonium surfactant (617,620) into a Fe-ZSM-5 synthesis gel, were reported to exhibit much lower deactivation rates compared to conventional Fe-ZSM-5. For example, Koekkoek et al. (620) synthesized hierarchically porous Fe/ZSM-5 zeolite for the first time by the stacking of nanosheets using diquaternary ammonium structure-directing agents [SDAs, [C22H45N+(CH3)2C6H12N+(CH3)2C6H12N+(CH3)2C6H12N+(CH3)2C3H7Br4, C226663·Br4] and [C22H45N+(CH3)2C6H12N+(CH3)2C3H7Br2, C2263·Br2], Figure 41A]. The small size along the b-direction in zeolite nanosheets significantly shortened the intracrystalline pathways, thus reducing the mass transfer limitations caused by the long diffusion paths in the micropores that the reactants and products of similar size had to travel. (617) The hierarchically porous zeolites synthesized by C226663·Br4 (Fe/ZSM-5(4N,360)-st) and C2263·Br2 (Fe/ZSM-5(2N,360)-st) were made by the stacking of nanosheets with a thickness of 68 and 3 nm. Fe/ZSM-5(2N,360)-st produced a higher phenol yield (185.2 mmol g1 after a 24 h reaction) in the selective oxidation of benzene to phenol than both Fe/ZSM-5(4N,360)-st (145.1 mmol g1 after a 24 h reaction) and bulk zeolites Fe/ZSM-5(TPA,360)-st (85.8 mmol g1 after a 24 h reaction, Figure 41B,C). (617) Moreover, the zeolite nanosheets retained more than half of their initial activity after 24 h. The improved catalytic stability was due to the shorter diffusion pathways of coke or coke precursors to the external surface of the hierarchically porous zeolite nanosheets. The carbonaceous coke was mostly deposited in the mesopores. In contrast, diffusion paths to the external surface of bulk zeolite were much longer. The cokes mostly deposited in the micropores. Besides, the formation of coke was largely reduced in the hierarchically porous zeolites made by the stacking of zeolite nanosheets because of the short molecular traffic distances in the zeolite nanosheets. The carbonaceous byproducts were mainly deposited in the mesopores between the nanosheets rather than in the micropores. Contrarily, it was found that the micropore volume in the bulk Fe/ZSM-5 decreased greatly due to the rapid blockage of micropores. Moreover, the secondary reactions were effectively suppressed due to the small length of the zeolite nanosheets in the direction of the straight channels. (620) Hierarchical Fe/ZSM-5 zeolites made of nanosheets were also prepared from a typical synthesis gel for Fe/ZSM-5, in which the conventional structure-directing agent TPAOH was replaced by a silane coupling agent comprising a polar head group with two quaternary ammonium centers and a hydrophobic tail. (621) The resultant hierarchical zeolite had a similar thin sheet morphology as the zeolites reported by the Ryoo group. (157,158) Their crystallinity was equally high as the crystallinity of bulk Fe/ZSM-5 except that the coherent length of the crystals in the b-direction was limited for the sheetlike zeolites. The samples exhibited improved activity and enhanced stability in the BTOP, realizing more than 20 wt % in benzene conversion as compared to conventional ones. (621) Figure 41 Figure 41. (A) Three structure-directing agents used for the synthesis of bulk Fe/ZSM-5 zeolite (tetrapropylammonium hydroxide, TPAOH) and Fe/ZSM-5 zeolite nanosheets [Fe/ZSM-5(4N,360)-st (C226663 Br4) and Fe/ZSM-5(2N,360)-st (C2263 Br2)]. (B) Illustration of the oxidation of benzene to phenol. (C) Catalytic properties of Fe/ZSM-5 zeolite catalysts in the oxidation of benzene to phenol and corresponding TEM images. Adapted with permission from ref (617). Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society.
4.1.5.2. Oxidation Reactions with Peroxides
Titanosilicates are highly active and environmentally friendly catalysts used in a series of industrially important organic oxidation reactions using peroxide as an oxidant, such as the epoxidation of linear alkenes (237,622,625628) and cyclic olefins, (177,771776) the oxidative desulfurization, (200,629633,777787) the hydroxylation of phenol, (467,634,635,788792) and the ammoxidation of cyclohexanone. (194,636641,793795) The most common titanosilicate zeolites are titanium Silicalite-1 (TS-1). (796,797) However, they are limited in catalytic oxidation reactions of the substrates with relatively small molecular sizes due to the medium pores of the 10-membered ring (about 0.50.6 nm pore diameter). The relatively narrow micropores in the TS-1 zeolite limit the diffusion of reactants and products. Thus, the bulky reactants cannot enter into the micropores and diffuse to active sites. (790) The generated larger product molecules cannot diffuse out of the micropores quickly and further convert to undesired byproducts, leading to pore blocking and coke formation. (798) The catalytic applications of titanosilicate zeolites are greatly broadened when the diffusion path length is reduced. To overcome the problems arising from the microporous structure of zeolites, meso- and/or macropores are introduced by either in situ or postsynthesis approaches. (15)
4.1.5.2.1. Epoxidation of Linear Alkenes and Cyclic Olefins
1-Hexene and 1-octene are small linear alkenes without sterically requirements. Wu et al. introduced titanium atoms into the MWW framework using hexamethylene imine or piperidine as structure-directing agents. (622624) The titanosilicate MWW (Ti-MWW) is a medium pore zeolite with a two-dimensional system of 10-ring pores and 7.1 × 18.1 Å supercages. (590) Moreover, the MWW-type lamellar precursor converted into a micro-mesoporous hybrid (346) or formed an assembly of ultrathin nanosheets by delamination, (342) both having active sites highly accessible to the bulky molecules. Thus, the Ti-MWW zeolite produced a conversion of 44.8 wt % in the 1-hexene epoxidation while the conversion over the TS-1 was only 5.8 wt %. (622) Similarly, Kim et al. (625) prepared hierarchical Ti-MCM-36 formed by pillared MWW catalyst which exhibited a turnover number (TON) 3 times higher than that of conventional TS-1 in 1-hexene epoxidation. In 1-octene epoxidation, similar results for 1-hexene were obtained. (626,627) Conventional TS-1 catalysts provided a similar conversion (2.5 wt %) (626) while Ti-MWW catalysts with a hierarchical structure once again exhibited the highest yield of cyclooctene oxide. (627) Furthermore, hierarchical TS-1 zeolite nanocrystals were obtained by the crystallization of silanized seeds. (628) The resultant catalysts exhibited a higher catalytic conversion than their microporous counterparts in the 1-octene epoxidation with TBHP and showed very high oxidant efficiencies and extremely stable 100% epoxide selectivity. . (628) Moreover, hierarchically porous zeolite catalysts are mostly applied in the epoxidation of sterically demanding molecules. The oxidation of bulky molecule 2,4,6-trimethylstyrene is often used as a probe reaction to study the sterical effect. Chen et al. (237) prepared a novel hierarchically micro-meso-macroporous zeolitic TS-1 architecture using a glycerol-assisted quasi-solid-state crystallization process described in section 2. (235,242,243) All pores of over three length scales were incorporated throughout the final solid body to construct a highly interconnected network of well-defined macrochannels with uniform mesoporosity and zeolitic microchannels. The introduced mesopores or macropores were directly accessible from the outer surface of the zeolite crystal and effectively enhanced the molecular transport to/from the active sites. Such full interconnectivity between the various levels of pores in the resultant hierarchical zeolites maximized the benefits of hierarchy in catalytic reactions, thus leading to superior catalytic performances in the oxidation of 2,4,6-trimethylstyrene with a conversion 17 times higher than that of their microporous analogues. Contrarily, the introduced mesopores/macropores are transport-wise ineffective if they are not accessible to the outer surface of the zeolites.
The molecular dimension of cyclohexane is around 5.0 Å, being comparable with the micropore size of medium pore TS-1 zeolites. These molecules suffer from severe diffusion limitations in the 10-membered-ring micropores when compared with 1-hexene. (771) Hierarchical TS-1 with highly connected mesoporous channels was successfully synthesized using poly(vinyl alcohol)-modified carbon nanotubes as hard templates. (772) The catalyst exhibited a much higher catalytic activity than the conventional TS-1 in the epoxidation of cyclohexene. The greatly improved catalytic performance was attributed to the abundant wormlike and fully interconnected mesopores, which made the active sites in the TS-1 zeolite more accessible to the bulky molecules. Furthermore, alkaline treatment of TS-1 also resulted in the formation of hierarchical structures. The well-developed intracrystalline mesoporosity together with the isolated Ti atoms in the tetrahedral framework achieved a cyclohexene conversion 7-fold higher than that of the conventional untreated microporous TS-1 while the selectivity toward epoxide reached as high as 96%. Hierarchically structured Ti-ECNU-7P (Ti-MWW) nanosheets were prepared using boron to assist crystallization and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) to swell and pillar interlayers. (773) The resultant Ti-ECNU-7P contained 2.5 nm thickness zeolite nanosheets with stacked interlamellar mesopores. Besides, such large interlayer spacing cannot be obtained by the conventional hydrothermal method. Due to more accessible active sites on the external surface, hierarchical Ti-ECNU-7 zeolites showed a much higher cyclohexene conversion (29.8 wt %) than Ti-MWW (7.2 wt %).
Cyclooctene is another widely used bulky model substrate to study the steric effect. The cyclooctene molecules cannot enter the micropores of zeolites, and therefore, their further epoxidation can only take place on the external surface of the zeolites. The hierarchically porous titanosilicates with a lamellar structure possessed the active Ti sites on the external surface of the crystalline layers, which are accessible without diffusion restrictions of the micropore system. Their superiority over the conventional TS-1 was noticeable. For example, a hierarchically porous titanosilicate with Si/Ti molar ratio of 30 made by the UTL layers [Ti-IPC1-PITi (30)] was prepared. (774) The resultant Ti-IPC1-PITi (30) had a much higher SBET and Vtot (910 m2 g1 and 0.46 cm3 g1 vs 339 m2 g1 and 0.19 cm3 g1) than the conventional large-pore Ti-BEA catalyst, thus leading to a cyclooctene conversion (35.8% vs 14.0%) much higher than that of Ti-BEA. (774) Hierarchically porous Del-Ti-MWW with a layered structure prepared by delaminating the Ti-MWW precursor was found to have an enlarged accessible surface area, thus leading to a greatly improved catalytic performance for the epoxidation of cyclooctene. (775) Furthermore, hierarchical Ti-Beta zeolite, prepared by simultaneous desilication and titanation, exhibited intracrystalline mesopores and outperformed its microporous counterpart in the liquid-phase epoxidation of cyclooctene. (776) The epoxide yield achieved with the hierarchical sample was nearly 3 times higher than that with the microporous sample. The superior catalytic performance of hierarchical Ti-Beta was assigned to the presence of larger transport pores and the significantly higher accessibility of the active Ti sites.
4.1.5.2.2. Oxidative Desulfurization
The oxidative desulfurization (ODS) reaction of sulfides to sulfoxides or sulfones can be undertaken under mild conditions, which is an effective method to produce fuels with very low sulfur content and considered to be the most promising process to replace the hydrodesulfurization (HDS) process. (777,778) Titanosilicates as catalysts were mostly studied. (779,780) However, their intrinsic small micropores impose serious diffusion constraints on bulky sulfides such as dibenzothiophene (DBT) and alkylated-DBT such as 4,6-dimethyldibenzothiophene (4,6-DMDBT). (781) Earlier studies reported that TS-1 was almost inactive for the epoxidation of the aromatic thiophene molecule and had no catalytic activity toward DBT and 4,6-DMDBT. (200) The development of hierarchical titanosilicates can overcome the constraints presented by solely microporous zeolites. (629) Hierarchically porous TS-1 nanocrystals (HTS-1), prepared by using commercial polymer PVA as a mesoporogen (Figure 42A), contained rich intracrystalline mesopores formed by the stacking of nanocrystals. (630) The steric hindrance of two methyl-groups in 4,6-DMDBT seriously restrained its accessibility to the active site of conventional TS-1. However, the diffusion of 4,6-DMDBT in HTS-1 became easier because the size of mesopores (420 nm) is much larger than that of 4,6-DMDBT, leading to much higher 4,6-DMDBT conversion than that obtained by conventional TS-1 (84% vs 18%, Figure 42B).
Figure 42 Figure 42. (A, B) Morphology and catalytic properties of the oxidative desulfurization of 4,6-dimethyldibenzothiophene (4,6-DMDBT) over HTS-1: (A) TEM images of HTS-1 zeolite; (B) removal rate of 4,6-DMDBT vs time over HTS-1 and CTS-1. Adapted with permission from ref (630). Copyright 2016 Elsevier. (C, D) Morphology and catalytic properties of the cyclohexanone ammoxidation over hierarchical TS-1 zeolite: (C) TEM images of hierarchical TS-1 zeolite; (D) removal rate of cyclohexanone vs time over hierarchical TS-1 zeolite and TS-1-C. Adapted with permission from ref (637). Copyright 2018 Elsevier.
Hierarchical TS-1 catalyst with a smaller mesopore size (23 nm) was prepared through the hydrothermal method by using the green and cheap surfactant Triton X-100 (polyethylene glycol tert-octylphenyl ether) as the mesoporous template. (631) The catalytic performances of the hierarchical TS-1 (HTS-1) and the conventional TS-1 (CTS-1) were compared in the DBT oxidation. It can be seen that the DBT removal rate reached 100% after 3 h for HTS-1 but only 70.8% after 6 h for CTS-1. Obviously, CTS converted bulky DBT at a relatively low rate while the HTS-1 showed a much higher removing efficiency for DBT. It was inferred that the catalytic activity of the catalysts increased as their mesoporous volume and the accessible surface area increased. (631) The enhanced catalytic activity of the HTS-1 catalyst was mainly attributed to the introduced mesopores in the zeolites. These intracrystalline mesopores offered easy accessibility to the active sites and accelerated the mass transport of bulky molecules, thus facilitating the diffusion of DBT and sulfone to the internal active sites through the mesopores and avoiding the rapid deactivation. (632) Hierarchical TS-1 zeolites with larger intracrystalline mesopores (centered around 10 nm) were further obtained from silanized protozeolitic units. These nanounits were not independent and isolated units but presented significant intergrowth, providing hierarchical TS-1 with a high thermal and mechanical stability. The hierarchical TS-1 achieved a DBT conversion of 95% after only 30 min of reaction and a total conversion after 1 h, much higher when compared with the conventional TS-1 (33% DBT conversion after 1 h). Besides, the obtained hierarchical TS-1 showed a much higher DBT conversion than a silylated Ti-MCM-41 (11% DBT conversion after 30 min), which was related to the crystalline nature of titanium active sites in TS-1 zeolite compared with the amorphous Ti environment of the Ti-MCM-41 material. (799) Leng et al. prepared Ti-modified hierarchical mordenites (Ti/MM) via an incipient wetness impregnation technique by using tetrabutyl orthotitanate (TBOT) as the precursor of Ti species. (784) The introduced Ti species were located outside the micropores in mordenite due to the large molecular size of TBOT, leading to easily accessible Ti active sites over Ti/MM. The sulfur removal content over Ti/MM reached 98.6% after 120 min, which was nearly 4 times that of Ti-modified conventional mordenite. (784) Moreover, hierarchical Beta prepared by the post-treatment process was reported to have rich mesoporosity, (575) and the four-coordinated Al atoms in the framework of zeolite Beta could be easily removed by acid treatment and replaced by other metals. (785) Leng et al. (633) thus prepared Ti-containing hierarchical Beta zeolite by the desilicationdealumination process and found that the resultant catalyst exhibited better catalytic performances than that obtained by direct desilication or dealumination. It was attributed to the special post-treatment that provided catalysts with the easier accessibility of highly active sites and richer mesoporosity.
Generally, lamellar zeolites combine the advantages of both the crystalline microporous structure and mesoporous molecular sieves, providing abundant active centers with easy accessibility. Kon et al. (786) compared the catalytic performances of the ODS reaction for various alkyl-sulfides over Ti-MWW and interlayer-expanded Ti-IEZ-MWW. The conversion over Ti-IEZ-MWW (64 wt %) was nearly double that for Ti-MWW (36 wt %), confirming that enlarged porosity by the interlayer expansion can significantly boost the diffusion performance of the bulky diphenyl sulfide molecules in the catalyst of the ODS reaction.
4.1.5.2.3. Hydroxylation of Phenol
Titanosilicate catalysts can catalytically oxidize both aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons to corresponding alcohols, ketones, and phenols. The methyl or hydroxyl substituents on the aromatic rings are beneficial for further hydroxylation. Thus, titanosilicates are promising catalysts for the conversion of phenol hydroxylation to hydroquinone and catechol. Besides, the phenol hydroxylation is a diffusion-controlled reaction. (788) As introducing mesoporosity into microporous zeolite can greatly improve the diffusion performances of zeolite, (789) Tao et al. prepared hierarchical TS-1 zeolite microspheres with a nanorod oriented-assembled structure by a space-confined synthesis method, which exhibited a large external surface and rich mesoporosity. (790) The phenol conversion on such a catalyst (29.8 wt %) was almost 2-fold higher than that on the conventional TS-1 (15.7 wt %), confirming that fast diffusion to and out of micropores and the rich external acidic sites were essential for the improved catalytic performance. Tsai et al. (634) investigated the influence of crystalline size of TS-1 (micrometer-sized μm TS-1 and nanometer sized nm TS-1) and different post-treating methods described in section 2 on the hierarchical pores and the catalytic properties in phenol hydroxylation. Tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) post-treatment generated a hollow structure and increased external surface of μm TS-1 without sacrificing micropores, while selective Si removal by NaOH leaching resulted in hierarchically mesoporous zeolite nanocrystals. The micrometer-sized μm TS-1 catalyst gave a lower conversion and lower selectivity toward dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs) than the nanometer-sized nm TS-1 sample. Moreover, subsequent post-treatment by TPAOH followed by NaOH can create larger pores than the micropores of TS-1 zeolite. A higher titanium amount, faster mass transfer, and larger pore volumes introduced by successive post-treatment greatly improved the catalytic activity of TS-1.
The selective oxidation of 2,3,6-trimethylphenol (TMP) to 2,3,5-trimethyl-p-benzoquinone (TMBQ) is an important reaction since the TMBQ is the key intermediate in producing vitamin E. (635) Hierarchical TS-1 made by the assembly of nanocrystals, possessing randomly arranged mesopores of 26 nm and uniform particle size of 200300 nm, was prepared through a one-step hydrothermal synthetic strategy by utilizing the green and cheap ammonium-modified chitosan (N-2-hydroxy-propyl-3-trimethylammonium chitosan chloride, HTCC) as the mesopore porogen agent. The resultant catalysts were used to evaluate the effects of the mesoporosity on the catalytic performance of the 2,3,6-trimethylphenol (TMP) oxidation reactions. (791) Since the bulky 2,3,6-TMP molecules can hardly diffuse into the micropores, the oxidation of TMP mainly occurs on the external surface of the microporous zeolites or in the larger mesopores of the hierarchically porous zeolites. The TMP conversion and the TMBQ selectivity on the conventional TS-1 were around 2.13 wt % and 59.62%, but it sharply increased to 62.22 wt % and 96.97%, respectively, on the hierarchically porous TS-1, which was also much higher than those of Ti-SBA-15 and Ti-MCM-41. (792) Zhou et al. (467) further prepared hierarchically mesoporous TS-1 zeolite by a simple steam-assisted crystallization method. The resultant catalyst had a high surface area and large mesopore volume, thus providing significantly higher catalytic activity and longer catalytic lifetime than the conventional TS-1 in the selective oxidation of TMP to TMBQ.
4.1.5.2.4. Ammoxidation of Cyclohexanone
The cyclohexanone oxime is the key intermediate for synthesizing ε-caprolactam, which is the monomer for Nylone-6. The TS-1-catalyzed cyclohexanone ammoximation with NH3 and H2O2 was first reported by Enichem Corporation and is considered environmentally friendly with a high selectivity toward cyclohexanone oxime and water as the only side product. (793) However, the relatively short catalyst lifetime of TS-1 in the cyclohexanone ammoximation severely limits its further application in industry. The decreased activity was due to the severe deposition of bulky byproducts on the internal surface. (794) Post-treatments, as described in section 2, can effectively generate hollow zeolite crystals with large external surface area and mesopore volume, which can significantly facilitate the mass transfer of bulky molecules inside the zeolite crystal. (795) For example, hierarchically mesoporous TS-1 hollow crystals were constructed by assembling TS-1 nanocrystalline blocks through a hydrothermal post-treatment method. (636) Compared with the hierarchically mesoporous TS-1 crystals, the hierarchically mesoporous TS-1 hollow crystals exhibited a high cyclohexanone conversion with oxime selectivity up to 100%. The hollow crystalline structure contributed to high surface areas, hierarchical meso-macroporosities, and thus excellent catalytic performances.
The alkali treatment is widely used as an effective method to generate mesopores. For example, hierarchical TS-1 zeolites, prepared by the dissolutionrecrystallization method, exhibited abundant large mesopores on the external surface and small voids homogeneously distributed throughout the crystal. (637) These materials showed 85 wt % conversion after 90 min of the reactions while the conventional TS-1 gave only 35 wt %. The superior catalytic activity was thus due to the enhanced diffusion and the easy accessibility to the catalytic active sites in the presence of open mesopores (Figure 42C,D). Wu et al. (638) demonstrated that the catalyst stability of TS-1 in the cyclohexanone ammoximation was greatly prolonged after the TPAOH treatment. The MFI structure was not destroyed while the intracrystalline mesopores were created, and the pore diameters increased as the TPAOH concentrations increased. The catalysts exhibited more than 98% cyclohexanone conversions and more than 99% cyclohexanone oxime selectivity. Similar results can be found for the triethylamine-treated TS-1 catalysts. (639) Some irregular hollow cavities were created after the treatment by desilication. The catalyst lifetime was significantly prolonged to 30 h, which was 10 times longer than that of the conventional TS-1.
It was reported that Ti-MWW can efficiently catalyze the ammoxidation of cyclohexanone, which gave both cyclohexanone conversion and oxime selectivity over 99%. (640) Besides, Ti-MWW showed a longer catalytic lifetime than other titanosilicates, such as TS-1. (641) However, Ti-MWW suffered from the rapid deactivation due to the deposition of byproducts. To overcome this, Xu et al. (194) coated a mesoporous silica shell over zeolite crystallites by the solgel self-assembling route. The mesoporous silica shell in the novel Ti-MWW@mesoporous-SiO2 composite catalysts efficiently prevented the active zeolite core from rapid coke formation, leading to a stable duration of the catalysts.
In conclusion, the relatively narrow micropores in the conventional zeolites usually impose a severe diffusion limitation on the catalytic oxidation reactions of bulky substrates. The introduction of mesopores or macropores into microporous zeolites is an effective method for the improvement of mass transfer and the accessibility of active sites. The hierarchically porous zeolites with interconnected pores that are accessible to the external surface are mostly desired in the catalytic oxidation reactions.
4.1.6. Transformation of Methanol
Nowadays, with the rapidly rising demand for energy and the scarcity of crude oil resources, it becomes increasingly significant to find alternative energy sources. Among several alternatives, the conversion of syngas (CO + H2), produced via the gasification or reforming process of coal, (800,801) natural gas, (802) or biomass, (803,804) into hydrocarbons is a potential process to provide fuels and raw materials for petrochemicals in the future. (805) The FischerTropsch synthesis (FTS) process, catalyzed by Co- or Fe-based catalysts, is a well-known process for converting syngas to hydrocarbons, such as diesel fuels and waxes (see section 4.1.3). (742) As an alternative to the FTS process, methanol is mass-produced from syngas and converted to a hydrocarbon. Such a methanol to hydrocarbon (MTH) process has been used commercially for a long time and is a key route to produce high-value chemicals from nonpetroleum C1 sources. (806) Almost all petroleum-related chemicals, especially olefin monomers and polymers, can be produced from methanol by this process. (807) The zeolite-catalyzed MTH process exhibited excellent product selectivity as compared with the FT process. (808) Chang and Silvestri first used zeolites to catalyze the MTH process. (809) The MTH process occurred mostly inside the micropores of the zeolite. Thus, the medium- and large-pore zeolites selectively led to the formation of the high-molecular-weight aromatics and paraffins (C5C7), while the small-pore zeolites such as erionite (ERI), zeolite T (Linde Type T), chabazite (CHA), and ZK-5 (KFI) formed lower olefins (C2C4). (810,811) The MTH process was widely used to synthesize several different classes of hydrocarbons, including gasoline-range hydrocarbons (methanol to gasoline, MTG), (157,277,282,642,643,812827) light olefins (methanol to olefins, MTO), (34,236,554,644656,828861) propylene (methanol to propylene, MTP), (90,109,657661,862874) or aromatics (methanol to aromatics, MTA) (662664,875901) depending on the catalyst and/or the process operation conditions. Besides, the methanol dehydration leads to the formation of dimethyl ether (methanol dehydration to dimethyl ether, MTD). (665,666,902,903)
4.1.6.1. Methanol-to-Gasoline-Range Hydrocarbons Process
The zeolite-catalyzed methanol-to-gasoline-range hydrocarbons (MTG) process, first discovered by Exxon Mobil, is complementary to FischerTropsch synthesis for the conversion of methanol to high-octane index gasoline. (812) Various types of zeolites were tested for the production of gasoline; among them, ZSM-5 proved to be the most promising catalyst for the production of high-quality gasoline. (813815) The unique interconnected micropore systems in ZMS-5 zeolites allow for the gasoline-range hydrocarbons to diffuse out. (816) However, they suffered from the drawbacks of high coproduction of environmentally unfriendly aromatic compounds, especially 1,2,4,5-tetramethylbenzene, (817,818) and the frequent necessity for regeneration due to their fast deactivation caused by coke formation. (819) Successive efforts were put into the development of new MTG zeolite catalysts to suppress the formation of aromatics. Di et al. (820) synthesized a ZSM-5/MCM-48 aluminosilicate composite material by a simple two-step crystallization process, in which the precrystallized colloidal zeolite was added into a synthesis system of MCM-48. After the second crystallization, the ZSM-5 phase in the composite was interconnected with the mesostructured MCM-48 phase. The obtained catalyst possessed a high catalytic activity, improved selectivity toward C5C10, and reduced formation of aromatics and carbon depositions, which were attributed to the enhanced mass transfer properties in the hierarchically micro-mesoporous ZSM-5/MCM-48 composite catalysts.
The slow transportation of the reactants and products in the relatively small micropores of the zeolite are the main causes for the short catalyst life. (277) The introduction of additional pores can significantly boost the diffusion rate of molecules in the zeolites, thus leading to a prolonged catalyst life. (821) The hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite was directly prepared by hydrothermal treatment of a clear solution made by mixing anhydrous sodium aluminate, tetraethyl orthosilicate, tetrapropylammonium hydroxide, and deionized water without using an additional template or zeolite seeding crystals. (282) The influence of intercrystalline mesoporosity on the catalytic performance in the MTG reactions was carefully investigated. The intercrystalline space referred to the network of voids generated by the aggregation of microporous ZSM-5 nanocrystals, which were directly accessible from the outer surface of the zeolite aggregates. The resultant ZSM-5 with interconnected porous hierarchy exhibited almost 100 wt % methanol conversion and 59% selectivity toward the gasoline-range hydrocarbons. Its coke formation was less than 2 wt % after 24 h of reaction, while the conventional ZSM-5 zeolite exhibited nearly 8 wt % carbon deposition. For zeolites with an interconnected hierarchy, the mesopores in the microporous crystals should be directly accessible from the outer surface of the zeolite crystal to ensure that the synthesized hierarchically porous zeolite is effective for mass transport. For example, Fathi et al. (642) studied the catalytic performance of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolites with intracrystalline mesopores. The presence of intracrystalline mesopores generated by the post-treatment of HZSM-5 catalyst using CaCO3, Na2CO3, and NaOH solutions ameliorated the catalytic performance to produce a higher amount of gasoline-range hydrocarbons. It is interesting to note that the sample treated by Na2CO3 showed the most appropriate acidity and greater catalytic performance among the other treated and untreated samples in the methanol to gasoline reactions. The yield of gasoline C5+ increased by about 43% after 4 h on stream, and the catalyst lifetime extended by about 11.5% when compared with the conventional ZSM-5 catalyst owing to the presence of intracrystalline mesopores. Liu et al. (643) systematically explored the influence of mesoporosity in zeolite Beta on its catalytic performance for the MTH reaction. They found that the mesoporous Beta showed a higher selectivity toward higher aliphatics (C4C7) than that of conventional Beta at both low and high conversions ranging from 20% to 100%. This was attributed to the hierarchically porous structure of Beta, which offered full accessibility of reactants to all catalytically active sites. However, the conventional Beta was easily deactivated due to the fast coke deposition on the outer surface of the catalyst crystals, which impeded access of reactants to interior active sites. Such a hierarchical structure reduced the resident time of methylbenzenes in zeolite micropores and inhibited the propagation of the aromatic-based catalytic cycle. Choi et al. (157) synthesized hierarchical MFI zeolite made of nanosheets that were only 2 nm thick, corresponding to the b-axis dimension of a single MFI unit cell (Figure 43A). In the MTG conversion, the hierarchical MFI zeolites made of nanosheets exhibited an increased catalyst lifetime and deactivated far more slowly than the conventional MFI. The hierarchical MFI nanosheets exhibited a much slower coke deposition rate than conventional MFI (45 vs 170 mg g1 zeolite at 5 days). For the hierarchical MFI zeolites made of nanosheets, the coke formed mainly at the mesopore surface while, for the conventional MFI zeolites, the coke mainly formed inside the micropores (Figure 43B,C). (822,823) The extended catalyst lifetime of the MFI nanosheets was due to the slow deposition of coke exclusively at external surfaces that can be attributed to the improved mass transfer of coke precursors out of the zeolite micropores.
Figure 43 Figure 43. (AC) Morphology and catalytic properties of the methanol-to-gasoline conversion over unilamellar MFI zeolite: (A) SEM image of unilamellar MFI zeolite with a flakelike morphology. The insets are the schematic structure model for the single MFI nanosheet and TEM image of the cross-section of the flake. Coke deposition and catalytic conversion of (B) conventional MFI zeolite and (C) unilamellar MFI zeolite in methanol-to-gasoline conversion. Adapted with permission from ref (157). Copyright 2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. (D, E) Morphology and catalytic properties of the methanol-to-olefin conversion over hierarchically porous SAPO-34 catalysts: (D) SEM image of hierarchically porous SAPO-34 with the inset of a corresponding schematic structure model; (E) methanol conversion variation with time-on-stream over conventional microporous SAPO-34 (SM) and hierarchically porous SAPO-34 (SH2) catalysts. Adapted with permission from ref (849). Copyright 2014 The Royal Society of Chemistry. (F, G) Morphology and catalytic properties of the methanol-to-aromatics conversion over ZSM-5 hollow spheres: (F) SEM image of ZSM-5 hollow spheres. The insets are schematic structure model and TEM image of the cross-section of an individual nanorod crystal. (G) Methanol conversion and time on stream over different ZSM-5 samples. Adapted with permission from ref (662). Copyright 2017 The Royal Society of Chemistry.
4.1.6.2. Methanol to Olefin Process
Light olefins, such as ethylene and propylene, are important raw chemicals in industry. Light olefins are traditionally obtained by the thermal or catalytic cracking of crude oil or by the dehydrogenation of alkanes. The limited crude oil availability calls for an urgent alternative technology. (828) The methanol to olefin (MTO) process is a successful nonpetrochemical route for the production of light olefins from abundant nonoil resources and links the nonpetroleum chemical and modern petrochemical industries together. (829) The MTO process, therefore, exhibits a superior economic advantage over the conventional naphtha cracking process and has been studied over different types of zeolites (ZSM-5, SAPO-34, MOR, etc.).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 