Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Catalyst deactivation: is it predictable?
What to do?
J.A. Moulijn, A.E. van Diepen∗, F. Kapteijn
Department of Chemical Process Technology, Section of Industrial Catalysis, Faculty of Applied Sciences,
Delft University of Technology, Julianalaan 136, 2628 BL Delft, The Netherlands
Abstract
Catalyst deactivation is usually inevitable, although the rate at which it occurs varies greatly. This article discusses the causes
of deactivation and the inﬂuence on reaction rate. Methods for minimising catalyst deactivation, by tailoring catalyst properties
and/or process operations, are presented, as well as reactor conﬁgurations suitable for the regeneration of deactivated catalysts.
Alkane dehydrogenation is used as an example to demonstrate the variety of engineering solutions possible. © 2001 Elsevier
Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Catalyst deactivation; Regeneration; Reactor; Alkane dehydrogenation; Engineering
1. Introduction
What makes a catalyst a good catalyst? Obviously,
a good catalyst shows high activity. A high activity al-
lows the use of relatively small reactors and operation
at mild conditions. However, activity is not the only
crucial property of a catalyst. A high selectivity for the
desired products is often of even greater importance.
Furthermore, it is important that a catalyst retains its
activity and selectivity for some time. Ideally, a cata-
lyst does not change and should have eternal life. In
practice, this is not the case. Depending on the process
used the catalyst cycle life may vary from a few sec-
onds, as in ﬂuid catalytic cracking (FCC), to several
years, as in for instance ammonia synthesis. Catalyst
deactivation is highly relevant for the application of
catalysis and scientiﬁcally it has many challenges. An
∗Corresponding author. Tel.: +31-15-278-6725;
fax: +31-15-278-5006.
E-mail address: a.e.vandiepen@tnw.tudelft.nl (A.E. van Diepen).
excellent introduction is given in the recent book by
Bartholomew and Farrauto [1].
The time scale of deactivation has profound
consequences for process design. Fig. 1 shows the
deactivation time for several processes in the reﬁning
and petrochemical industry. The two most important
applications in environmental catalysis are also in-
cluded. This deactivation time refers to the time after
which a catalyst has lost so much of its initial ac-
tivity that it must be regenerated or replaced. Often
regeneration is possible, but there is a limit. At the
end of the cycle life the catalyst is recycled or, when
this is more economical, disposed. It is obvious that
disposal should be postponed as long as possible and
that recycling is becoming more and more important.
Regeneration technology develops with time. Several
procedures are in use and besides regeneration milder
treatments are used, referred to as rejuvenation.
As can be seen from Fig. 1, the deactivation time
varies greatly for the different processes. At the lower
end, we ﬁnd the FCC process with a deactivation
time of seconds. Deactivation of a hydrodesulfuri-
0926-860X/01/$ – see front matter © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S0926-860X(00)00842-5
4
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Fig. 1. Time scale of deactivation of various catalytic processes.
sation (HDS) catalyst is much slower, depending on
the feed, in the order of months or a year.
The importance of catalyst stability is often under-
estimated, not only in academia but also in certain
sectors of industry, notably in the ﬁne chemicals in-
dustry. In bulk chemicals production, its importance
generally has been acknowledged. In ﬁne chemicals
production, chemists sometimes look upon the cata-
lyst as a reactant: when it does not function anymore,
it is disposed and new catalyst is added. So, it is
understandable that catalyst stability is not always a
point of strong concern. With increasing environmen-
tal awareness this attitude will change.
This article will focus on deactivation in heteroge-
neous catalysis, although catalyst stability is just as
important or even more important in homogeneous
catalysis, see [2]. Table 1 lists some typical cases of
deactivation in industrial processes.
2. Causes of deactivation
Deactivation is a complex phenomenon. Feed
molecules might poison active sites, the catalyst might
produce intermediates and products that are lethal
poisons for the catalyst, the catalyst might not with-
stand the high temperature applied, etc. The length
scale is also relevant: deactivation can be caused
by phenomena on a nanometer scale (clusters at the
surface, micropores in zeolites), micrometer scale
(macropores), several micrometer–millimeter scale
(particles, washcoat) or even meter scale (reactor).
The ﬁve main causes of deactivation are poisoning,
fouling, thermal degradation (sintering, evaporation)
initiated by the often high temperature, mechani-
cal damage and corrosion/leaching by the reaction
mixture. In the ﬁrst two cases, the catalyst might be
regenerated in some way. Sintering, evaporation and
leaching sometimes also can be cured by redispersing
the catalytic material or restoring the active sites by
a chemical vapour deposition (CVD) type treatment.
It should be noted that the causes listed are often not
independent. A good example is the adsorption of
sulphur on a platinum catalyst; sulphur poisons the Pt
sites, and at the same time causes the Pt clusters to be-
come more mobile leading to sintering. In this issue,
Bartholomew [3] discusses the deactivation mecha-
nisms in detail. Fig. 2 shows a schematic represen-
tation of the deactivation phenomena inside a catalyst
particle.
2.1. Poisoning
Poisoning is deﬁned as deactivation by strong ad-
sorption of, usually, impurities in the feed. Strictly
speaking, also reactants and products adsorb at the
catalyst surface and the most strongly adsorbing
components hinder the adsorption of less strongly
adsorbing components. This is not called poisoning
but competitive adsorption and it should be incorpo-
rated in the rate expression. For instance, Langmuir–
Hinshelwood–Hougen–Watson
(LHHW)
kinetic
schemes model this. It is useful to distinguish between
temporary and permanent poisoning. In the former
situation, the poison can be removed, whereas this
is not the case in the latter situation. The distinction
between temporary and permanent poisoning is not
always this clear: poisons that are strong poisons at
low temperature are less harmful in high-temperature
processes. Acetylenes and dienes readily polymerise
to form carbonaceous deposits on catalysts. Higher
temperatures help to remove these deposits by depoly-
merisation. Analogously, in catalytic combustion due
to the high temperatures involved (>1270 K) poison-
ing by traces of sulphur, halogens, etc. is much less
of a problem than in catalytic processes at ‘normal’
temperatures, because these poisons do not adsorb on
the catalyst surface at such high temperatures [4].
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
5
6
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Fig. 2. Major types of deactivation in heterogeneous catalysis.
It is not uncommon that poisoning takes place by
strong adsorption of traces of impurities in the feed.
As adsorption is a fast process the poison molecules
might well be predominantly present in the outer
shell of the particle. A so-called egg-shell distribution
is obtained. This might be viewed as an example of
selective poisoning, but usually this term is limited
to selection in terms of chemistry (i.e. preferential
adsorption on speciﬁc sites). In the case of egg-shell
poisoning, the most accessible sites are poisoned and,
as a consequence, the observed deactivation behaviour
is the same as in selective poisoning. Catalyst poisons
exist in various forms, as is illustrated in Table 2.
Poisoning by sulphur compounds, such as H2S is
encountered in many large-scale processes using metal
catalysts, such as methanation, steam reforming,
Table 2
Examples of catalyst poisons
Type of poison
Examples
Strong chemisorber
H2S
NH3
Surface active metal or ion
Cu in Ni
Ni in Pt
Fe in Pt
Pb or Ca in Co3O4
Pb in Fe3O4
High molecular weight
product producer
Fe (from pipes) on Cu or Si–Al
Acetylenes
Dienes
hydrogenations, and even HDS. A good example
is sulphur poisoning in catalytic processes in the
petroleum reﬁnery. For example, in catalytic reform-
ing the Pt-catalyst adsorbs sulphur very strongly and
the process can only operate when the sulphur level is
very low. Every catalytic reforming unit is preceded
by an HDS unit.
In oxidation, usually air is used as reactant. The
purity of the ambient air might be disappointing.
Besides air pollution components, nature might also
carry undesired components. A good example are
coastal areas where the air contains aerosol particles
and as a consequence Cl-poisoning might occur.
Metals or compounds that are reducible to metals
under reaction conditions may alloy with the active
catalyst metal and reduce its effectiveness [5]. Exam-
ples are Cu in Ni and Ni or Fe in Pt.
Poisoning can also be advantageous. Addition of
a poison gives the option to enhance the selectivity,
although usually at the expense of activity. In the up-
grading of the products of ethane cracking, acetylene
is removed by selective hydrogenation; adding Cu to
the Ni catalyst results in selective hydrogenation of
acetylene, while leaving ethene unaffected [5]. Sim-
ilarly, on a palladium catalyst the addition of a small
amount of Co can improve the selectivity of acetylene
hydrogenation relative to ethene [5]. In such cases, the
term modiﬁer better describes the process than poison.
It is also possible that a strongly adsorbing species
even leads to an increase in activity. In that case one
speaks of a promoter. For instance, in the production
of amines from nitriles by hydrogenation, addition
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
7
of a small amount of an alkali hydroxide to the reac-
tant feed improves the activity of the metal catalyst
and the selectivity to the desired primary amine [6].
More commonly the promoter is incorporated into
the catalyst as it is prepared, e.g. addition of a small
amount of alumina to the conventional iron catalyst
for ammonia synthesis [7].
2.2. Fouling
Fouling covers all phenomena where a surface is
covered with a deposit. Its origin is not always related
to processes on the catalyst. An example is the deposi-
tion of dust, e.g. from combustion residues like ash or
soot or from mechanical wear of upstream equipment.
Another example is the presence of colloidal particles
in the feed, which leads to deposition, e.g. deposition
of asphaltenes in processing of heavy petroleum frac-
tions. In high temperature processes large molecules
can be formed by free radical mechanisms and subse-
quently deposit on the catalyst particles. The injection
of ammonia in selective catalytic reduction (SCR)
of ﬂue gases may lead to ammonium(bi)sulphate
formation due to the presence of sulphur in the fuel.
In the cases above, the catalyst itself probably does
not play a major role. More often, however, the cat-
alyst itself is responsible for fouling by undesired
by-products that lead to deposits. In petroleum pro-
cessing fouling is a major concern. In most of the
catalytic processes in the petroleum reﬁnery fouling
by the deposition of ‘coke’ plays a major role. Coke
is a term that is used in many meanings. Dependent
on the conditions (temperature, partial pressure of
steam, hydrogen, composition of the liquid phase,
etc.) several reactions can occur that lead to coke or
in any case to carbonaceous material. At high tem-
peratures poly-aromatic or even graphitic compounds
are formed that deactivate catalysts. This coke is pro-
duced by unwanted polymerisation and dehydrogena-
tion (condensation) of organic molecules present in
the feed or formed as product. These reactions leave
a layer of highly hydrogen deﬁcient carbonaceous
material on the catalyst surface, making the active
sites inaccessible.
In hydropuriﬁcation of heavy petroleum fractions,
besides coke also metal sulphides are deposited, the
most important being nickel, vanadium and iron sul-
phides. A typical plot is given in Fig. 3, which shows
Fig. 3. Typical three stage activity decline of a residue hydrotreat-
ing catalyst [8].
the linear increase in metal sulphide deposits and the
saturation of the coke deposits. As a result the activ-
ity initially declines fast (stage I), both due to coke
and metal sulphide deposits, after which a phase of
slow deactivation (stage II) is observed due to the
continued deposition of metal sulphides. Finally, pore
plugging leads to fast and complete deactivation of
the catalyst (stage III).
For iron and vanadium in particular the reactions
leading to the deposits are fast (and the diffusion
rates within the particles are relatively slow) and, as
a consequence, non-uniform deposition takes place.
Fig. 4 gives examples of proﬁles measured under
industrially relevant conditions [8].
Coke formation is not limited to petroleum pro-
cessing. For instance, in alkene reactions over acid
sites oligomerisation and alkylation reactions will
occur. When the products do not desorb deactivation is
Fig. 4. The inﬂuence of the pore size on the vanadium deposition
proﬁles for the hydroprocessing of a heavy industrial feedstock [8].
8
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Fig. 5. Schematic of carbon formation on supported metal catalyst.
observed and the deposit might be referred to as
‘coke’.
In metal catalysed reactions of hydrocarbons and
CO layers of carbonaceous material can be formed,
leading to encapsulation of the metal cluster or the
formation of whiskers of carbon with the metal parti-
cle on top (see Figs. 5 and 6). It is a question of taste
whether this is referred to as coke or carbon, although
the latter term is most often used. The carbon can
have spectacular shapes. Under some conditions hy-
drocarbons decompose at the metal surface of small
crystallites and the carbon diffuses through the metal
Fig. 6. Carbon ﬁlaments resulting from CH4 decomposition at
873 K on a prereduced Ni/CaO. Reprinted from [9] with permission
from Elsevier Science.
and forms a carbon nanotube at the other side of
the crystallite. The crystallite is even lifted from the
surface and becomes the head of a growing ﬁlament.
Sometimes the crystallites split up and more ﬁla-
ments are formed. Under hydrogen-rich conditions
this process may be reversible. Continued growth can
lead to complete destruction of the catalyst particle
and even blocking of passages in the reactor. This
phenomenon can also occur at metal surfaces and can
lead to destruction of piping.
2.3. Thermal degradation
Thermal degradation is a physical process leading
to catalyst deactivation because of sintering, chemical
transformations, evaporation, etc. Sintering is the loss
of catalyst active surface due to crystallite growth
of either the support material or the active phase.
Fig. 7 shows a schematic representation of this type
of deactivation.
Initially, the atoms are supposed to be present as
small clusters of atoms (or small metal particles),
termed a monomer dispersion. Surface diffusion of
the atoms will lead to two-dimensional clusters, and
upon further diffusion three-dimensional particles will
be formed (Fig. 7a). These particles can grow into
larger ones through several mechanisms. Particles
might move and coalesce (Fig. 7b) or atoms move
from one particle to another, either by volatilisation
or by surface migration (Fig. 7c).
The most important mechanism for sintering of
small particles often is the movement of atoms rather
than particles; depending on the conditions (temper-
ature, type of surface) atoms will move via a hop-
ping mechanism or via surface diffusion. Sintering
resembles crystallisation: larger particles grow at the
expense of smaller ones. The position of the particle
contributes to sintering. A ‘valley’ position is stable,
while an ‘on-top’ position is highly unstable.
Besides processes on top of the support, also reac-
tions can take place in which the support is directly
involved. An example is alumina-supported cobalt
oxide. At high temperature (>800 K) solid-state diffu-
sion becomes noticeable and Co ions diffuse into the
support generating a spinel [10]. It is not surprising
that in this process catalytic activity is lost.
Thermal degradation can occur in all stages of the
life cycle of the catalyst. It might occur due to local
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
9
Fig. 7. Schematic of the various stages in the formation and growth of particles from a monomer dispersion.
heating during preparation (calcination), reduction
(fresh or passivated catalyst), reaction (hot spots,
maldistribution), or regeneration (coke burn-off).
A prediction of the propensity to sintering could
help in rational catalyst selection and design. At ﬁrst
sight this might seem an impossible task, even more
so because the chemical environment and the presence
of promoters also play a role.
Sintering is strongly temperature dependent. The
underlying mechanism is surface diffusion, or, at
sufﬁciently high temperature, mobility of larger
aggregates. So, it is clear that for a stable system the
diffusion coefﬁcients and the partial pressure should
be low. This leads to a correlation with characteristic
physical properties of the catalyst material.
The melting point plays a central role. It is not ill-
ogical that solid-state diffusion becomes faster when
the temperature is closer to the melting point. The
so-called Tamman and Hüttig temperatures, indica-
tive for the temperature at which sintering may occur,
are directly related to the melting temperature. Upon
temperature increase the mobility of atoms increases.
First, when the Hüttig temperature is reached, atoms
at defects will become mobile. Later, when the Tam-
man temperature is reached, atoms from the bulk will
exhibit mobility, and at the melting temperature, the
mobility will be so high that liquid-phase behaviour
is observed. The following semi-empirical relations
for the Tamman and Hüttig temperatures are recom-
mended for use:
TH¨
uttig = 0.3Tmelting
(1)
TTamman = 0.5Tmelting
(2)
Actually, the temperature at which the solid becomes
mobile depends on several factors such as texture,
size and morphology. -Al2O3 (highly porous) is
much more sensitive to sintering than -Al2O3 (mod-
erately porous). For small particles the temperature
at which mobility occurs may be much lower than
that indicated by the Tamman or Hüttig temperature.
Table 3 gives data of TTamman and THüttig for some
metals and their compounds. The melting point is not
always well-deﬁned, for instance some oxides already
begin to decompose before TTamman or THüttig has
been reached.
From Table 3, it can be understood why ceramic
supports like alumina and silica are generally used
in metal catalysts. They possess high Tamman tem-
peratures and are often referred to as thermostable
supports. Moreover, the small metal clusters often
are anchored to them by chemical bonds, thus avoid-
10
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Table 3
Tmelting, TTamman and THüttig values (K) of metals and their com-
pounds, relevant for heterogeneous catalysis
Compound
Tmelting
TTamman
THüttig
Pt
2028
1014
608
PtO
823
412
247
PtO2
723
362
217
PtCl2
854c
427
256
PtCl4
643c
322
193
Pd
1828
914
548
PdO
1023c
512
307
Rh
2258
1129
677
Rh2O3
1373c
687
412
Ru
2723
1362
817
Fe
1808
904
542
Co
1753
877
526
Ni
1725
863
518
NiO
2228
1114
669
NiCl2
1281
641
384
Ni(CO)4
254
127
76
NiS
1249
625
375
Ag
1233
617
370
Au
1336
668
401
Cu
1356
678
407
CuO
1599
800
480
Cu2O
1508
754
452
CuCl2
893
447
268
Cu2Cl2
703
352
211
Mo
2883
1442
865
MoO3
1068
534
320
MoS2
1458
729
437
Zn
693
347
208
ZnO
2248
1124
675
Al2O3
2318
1159
695
SiO2a
1986
993
596
SiO2b
1883
942
565
a Crystobalite.
b Quartz.
c Decomposes at this temperature.
ing sintering. The so-called structural promoters also
reduce sintering by their high stability: they inhibit
surface migration of the atoms of the active phase. In
a sense, they generate valley positions for the active
phase (compare Fig. 7). So, at ﬁrst sight for metal cat-
alysts the data are not disturbing, except for processes
operating at very high temperature, like catalytic com-
bustion and steam reforming. However, the catalyst
can react with the surrounding medium, which can
lead to formation of relatively volatile compounds.
A well-documented example is the copper catalyst
in methanol synthesis. In the past sintering appeared
to be a real problem at reaction temperature (ca.
500 K). It was found that sintering was promoted by
traces of chlorine present in the feed, which react with
the active surface producing a mobile copper chloride
phase [11]. The data in Table 3 corroborate this.
In the oxidation of ammonia into nitric oxide,
platinum/rhodium gauzes (90% Pt, 10% Rh) are used,
at temperatures up to 1200 K. Table 3 makes it under-
standable that Pt evaporation via the oxide is a major
problem in the process. Rhodium oxide is also formed
and the alloy is slowly decomposed by the formation
of dendritic morphology leading to physical loss of
material. Typically, the gauzes have lives of 50–300
days [12]. The ultimate mobility is evaporation of the
active phase leading to catalyst loss.
A good example illustrating the importance of being
alert is obtained form the ﬁeld of catalytic oxidation
of diesel soot. In that ﬁeld the challenge is to ﬁnd a
catalyst that is active at, say, 700 K. A catalyst was dis-
covered with satisfactory activity. It was based on K,
Cu and Mo, and as a result of the preparation method
used, it contained some Cl. Catalysis in diesel soot
oxidation is difﬁcult to realise because the reacting
system comprises two solid phases (soot and catalyst)
and a gas phase (air). It is not surprising that a prereq-
uisite for catalysis is good contact between the soot
and the catalyst. Table 3 suggest that (oxy)chlorides
are formed that are highly mobile and even volatile.
This explains the high activity, because a good
catalyst-soot contact will be realised. Unfortunately,
also catalyst evaporation has to be expected. In agree-
ment with this interpretation, it was found that for a se-
ries of transition metal chlorides the catalytic activity
increases
with
decreasing
melting
temperature.
This nicely illustrates the power of the correlations
used.
Of course, evaporation is most important in high
temperature processes, the major examples being
steam reforming and catalytic combustion.
In practice, mobility is not always undesired. In
fact, it can be applied to regenerate catalysts in cer-
tain cases. An elegant example is the redispersion of
Pt in reforming catalysts. During reaction the disper-
sion of Pt decreases. However, by a high-temperature
treatment (up to 920 K) in an oxygen-containing gas,
platinum is slightly vaporised because of the forma-
tion of Pt-oxides. Adsorption on active sites of the
support takes place and the dispersion is enhanced.
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
11
In the catalyst, always traces of chlorine are present,
which allow the formation of oxychlorides [13,14].
These probably also play a role. The values of the
Tamman temperature support this interpretation.
2.4. Mechanical deactivation
Mechanical strength is important in giving the cat-
alyst resistance against crushing, e.g. during transport
and loading of the catalyst in the reactor. A packed
bed of catalyst particles will experience strong stresses
in its life cycle: during start up it will be heated and
thermal expansion of the tube will occur, whereas dur-
ing cooling down the opposite will happen. During
catalyst regeneration the expansion and contraction of
the reactor might even be much larger than during
start-up. So, it is no surprise that mechanical degra-
dation is observed: during its life cycle the catalyst is
often tortured in an extremely severe way!
In a ﬂuidised-bed reactor attrition will always occur
and the ﬁnes formed will be carried away with the
product ﬂow. It has been well-documented that in the
DuPont process for the production of maleic anhydride
the development of an attrition–resistant catalyst was
a major issue [15,16]. In a ﬁxed-bed reactor (FBR)
attrition will be less, but the temperature transients
described above should not be underestimated. For a
FBR the consequences of even limited formation of
ﬁnes are very important: enhanced pressure drop and
eventually blocking of the bed.
The shape of the catalyst particles inﬂuences
mechanical strength: a spherical shape is most
favourable. Mechanical strength is also related to
porosity, for instance, macropores will lead to reduced
strength.
In washcoat monoliths the adherence of the coating
to the monolith is very important [17]. For instance,
the washcoat may be fractured and/or separated from
the monolith as a result of thermal stresses. This is par-
ticularly relevant in automotive applications, in which
the catalyst is subject to a wide range of temperatures
during its life, while the temperature change is often
very rapid, resulting in sudden expansion or contrac-
tion, which in turn can lead to thermal shock. A notable
example of the possibility of thermal shock is in the
oxidation of soot from diesel engines. A number of
techniques have been developed to ﬁlter particulates
(soot) from the diesel exhaust [18], but removing
the captured material from, for example, a ceramic
wall-ﬂow monolith is not so straightforward. The
rapid temperature increase resulting from the com-
bustion of the soot may even result in melting of
the ceramic [19]. One of the alternatives is the use
of a SiC ﬁlter, which is highly heat-resistant, coated
with a soot oxidation catalyst, so that continuous
regeneration can take place.
2.5. Corrosion/leaching
The reaction medium can be quite corrosive.
Consider alumina at high or low pH. Above pH = 12
it will dissolve. So, it is not surprising that at a pH
approaching 12 corrosion and leaching occur. The
same applies for a low pH (<3). For extremely high
or low pH carbon should be considered, not alumina.
Another good example is the sulphiding of oxides
when H2S is present in the reaction medium. Oxygen–
sulphur exchange will take place leading to a sulphide
phase. For example, in hydropuriﬁcation of petroleum
fractions a molybdenum oxide phase will be trans-
formed in a molybdenum sulphide phase.
Particularly in liquid-phase catalysis leaching often
is important. This has become painfully clear in the
often enthusiastically reported results on heterogeni-
sation of homogeneous catalysts: more often than not
the system claimed to be active exhibited leaching and
the catalytic activity is due to the leached compounds
rather than the solid phase [20]. A good example of
leaching is solid-catalysed fat hydrogenation. Nickel
is the catalyst of choice, but it is clear that traces ap-
pear in the product. This does not apply to palladium,
which might be a good reason to replace nickel with
palladium.
3. How deactivation inﬂuences the reaction rate
In the simplest case, the catalytic activity is
proportional to the number of active sites
kobs = NTkintrη
(3)
where kobs and kintr are the observed and intrinsic rate
constants for the reaction (per active site), NT the
total number of active sites, and η the effectiveness
factor.
12
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
Catalyst deactivation can be caused by (i) a decrease
of the number of active sites (NT decreases); (ii) a
decrease of the quality of the active sites (kintr
decreases); and (iii) a degradation in accessibility of
the pore space (η decreases).
Due to poisoning the number of active sites
decreases
NT = NT(1 −α)
(4)
where α is the fraction of the sites poisoned.
When poisoning takes place by strong adsorption of
impurities in the feed, the poison molecules might well
be most predominantly present in the outer shell of the
particle, as adsorption is a fast process. This implies
that the diffusion limitations increase (η decreases,
Eq. (3)) and that catalyst deactivation is stronger than
might have been expected.
The intrinsic rate constant, although presented
as a constant, may change as a result of catalyst
poisoning; When an impurity in the feed interacts
with the catalyst, the chemical nature of the catalyst
changes, and thus, the rate constant also changes.
An example is the interaction of H2S with tran-
sition metals leading to the formation of surface
sulphides with a different activity than the original
Fig. 8. Deactivation phenomena, their causes and effects.
metal species. The activity of the catalytic site can
also be completely destroyed (kintr becomes zero for
this site), which results in reduction of the number
of active sites. The catalyst effectiveness is also in-
ﬂuenced by poisoning: for non-selective poisoning it
increases.
Sintering is a function of time and temperature. Em-
pirical correlations have been proposed for the catalyst
activity as a function of both
da
dt = kdam
(5)
kd = kd0 exp

−Ea
RT

(6)
in which a is the catalyst activity and kd the deacti-
vation rate constant. The exponent m in Eq. (5) often
has a value of two.
In general, fouling and sintering do not affect the
intrinsic rate constant. Fouling results in physical
blocking of the active sites and catalyst pores (e.g. by
carbon or dust), and hence, affects both the number
of active sites and the catalyst effectiveness. Sintering
will also affect these variables. Fig. 8 summarises
the phenomena responsible for deactivation and their
inﬂuence on kobs.
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
13
4. Stability too low; what to do?
High conversions are often achieved with the fresh
catalyst, but these conversions drop rather rapidly as
the catalyst adjusts to the operating conditions and
after that decay subsequent deactivation takes place
continuously, although usually at a much slower rate.
What options do we have? What can be done to elim-
inate or in any case reduce the unfavourable decrease
in catalytic activity? And if this is not possible, can
the activity be restored and how?
First, when the cause of deactivation is understood
logical measures can be contrived, to begin with at
the catalyst level. Second, a sound reactor and process
design should be made, in which the deactivation and
its cause are taken into account. Third, good engineer-
ing practice will imply optimisation of the operating
conditions.
4.1. Measures on the scale of the catalyst particle
With respect to eliminating or limiting deactivation,
improving the catalyst is most rewarding. It does not
call for additional capital investment, and therefore,
it is often economical. When poisoning is the prob-
lem, a more robust active phase or support might be
selected. A good example is the replacement of alu-
mina by titania in selective catalytic reduction (SRC).
Alumna forms a surface sulphate with sulphur oxides,
whereas titania is inert. This explains why the former
deteriorates and the latter does not.
Another option is to optimise the catalyst texture. In
hydrodemetallisation (HDM) of heavy petroleum frac-
tions fouling by metal sulphide deposits results in pore
blocking. Therefore, a wide-pore catalyst outperforms
a small-pore catalyst, as the catalyst interior particle
remains available for reaction longer (see Fig. 4).
Proﬁling of the active phase can be attractive. An
egg-yolk proﬁle will protect the active sites against
poisoning and fouling when those processes are
diffusion limited and the main reaction is not.
For the formation of carbon ﬁlaments the carbide
phase might be the intermediate. The formation of
this phase can be prevented by tuning the reaction
conditions or by alloying the metal particles.
Sintering is easier prevented than cured as it is often
irreversible. Sintering can be reduced by structural
promoters or stabilisers. For example, the iron catalyst
used in ammonia production contains oxides like cal-
cium oxide. Alloying can also give spectacular results.
A good example is the classical catalytic reform-
ing process where addition of Re to the Pt/alumina
catalyst leads to strongly improved stability.
As
discussed
by
Bartholomew
[3],
crushing
strengths and attrition resistances of catalysts can be
signiﬁcantly improved, for example by using different
preparation methods.
An example where attrition resistance of the cata-
lyst plays a major role is in the production of maleic
anhydride from butane [15,16]. From the viewpoint
of temperature control (the reaction is highly exother-
mic) a ﬂuidised-bed reactor is much more suitable
than the conventionally used multi-tubular FBR.
However, operation in a ﬂuidised-bed reactor requires
high attrition resistance. One solution is to incorpo-
rate the active catalyst ingredients in a matrix, but
this decreases the activity and might lead to lower
selectivity. A new technology, developed by DuPont,
encapsulates the active material in a porous silica
shell. The pore openings of the shell permit unhin-
dered diffusion of the reactants and products, without
affecting conversion or selectivity.
4.2. Tailored reactor and process design
4.2.1. Relation between time-scale of deactivation
and choice of reactor
It will be clear that the time scale of deactivation
inﬂuences the choice of reactor and need for regen-
eration. Table 4 gives a global indication for solid-
catalysed processes. Fixed-bed reactors are suitable
for catalysts that stay sufﬁciently active for at least
Table 4
Relationship between time scale of deactivation and reactor type
(solid catalysts)
Time scale of
deactivation
Typical reactor type
Years
Fixed-bed reactor, no regeneration
Months
Fixed-bed reactor, regeneration while
reactor is off-line
Weeks
Fixed-bed reactors in swing mode,
moving-bed reactor
Minutes–Days
Fluidised-bed reactor, slurry reactor;
continuous regeneration
Seconds
Entrained-ﬂow reactor (riser) with
continuous regeneration
14
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
a few months. The process must be shut down for
catalyst regeneration or for reloading the reactor
with fresh catalyst. In that case, whenever possible,
regeneration and/or reloading are incorporated in the
periodical (partial) revision of the plant.
Fluidised-bed and slurry reactors are suitable for
fast deactivation, because continuous catalyst replace-
ment, and possibly regeneration, is easy with these
reactors in principle. It should be remarked, however,
that in the case of slurry reactors ﬁlterability of the
catalyst is an important issue, which is often difﬁcult
to solve. In addition, attrition of the catalyst plays an
important role for both reactor types. For extremely
fast deactivation, entrained-ﬂow reactors are em-
ployed, with continuous generation of the catalyst by
cycling between the reactor and the (ﬂuidised-bed)
regenerator, as in FCC.
Exceptions always exist, like the ﬁxed-bed dehy-
drogenation of propane with a deactivation time in the
Fig. 9. Commercial technologies for alkane dehydrogenation.
order of 15–30 min. This process operates in with a
swing reactor.
Depending on the process catalyst stability has to
be assessed. For instance, in ﬁne chemicals production
the stability requested usually is much more modest
than in bulk chemicals production and it generally
does not determine reactor choice. The same reasoning
applies to the reactor used. In slurry and ﬂuidised-bed
reactors the chemical stability is a point of less con-
cern than in FBRs (and monolithic reactors), while
the opposite holds for mechanical stability.
4.2.2. Engineering solutions allowing for
regeneration
Often, there is not one best engineering solution.
This is illustrated by the different reactor and regener-
ation technologies used in, e.g. catalytic reforming of
naphtha [21,22], Fischer–Tropsch synthesis [23,24],
and the catalytic dehydrogenation of alkanes for the
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
15
selective production of speciﬁc alkenes [21,25–29],
see Fig. 9. Because of the fast deactivation by coke for-
mation during the dehydrogenation process, which has
to operate at high temperature, different technologies
have been developed to enable catalyst regeneration.
The UOP Oleﬂex process [26] uses three or four
radial-ﬂow moving-bed reactors, packed with a sup-
ported Pt catalyst, in series with interstage heaters,
similar to the UOP continuous regenerative reforming
process [21,22]. In the regeneration unit the coke is
burned off the catalyst, the platinum is redispersed,
and excess moisture is removed. The cycle time
through the unit is between 2 and 7 days.
A key feature of the Lummus Catoﬁn process [27]
is the principle of storing the needed reaction heat in
the catalyst bed. A supported chromium oxide cata-
lyst is used in this process. Reactors (usually three to
eight in parallel) are alternately on stream for reac-
tion and off stream for regeneration by coke burn-off.
During regeneration by burning the coke off the cat-
alyst, the bed is heated, while this heat is consumed
in the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction during
the on-stream period. The cycle time between reac-
tion and regeneration mode is typically between 15
and 30 min [21]. Regeneration in the Phillips steam
active reforming (STAR) process [29], which uses
multiple catalyst-packed tubular reactors in a ﬁrebox
(similar to steam reforming processes), is also based
on the swing-reactor concept. The catalyst used for
dehydrogenation is a supported platinum catalyst
promoted with tin. Carbon burn-off is required every
8 h [21].
The Snamprogetti–Yarsintez FBD-4 design [25] is
similar to older FCC units with continuous catalyst
circulation between a ﬂuidised-bed reactor and regen-
erator on a 30–60 min cycle [28]. Catalyst returning
from the regenerator, where coke is burned off, to the
reactor supplies the reaction heat. The catalyst used
is a promoted chromium oxide powder with high
attrition resistance.
This example shows that different engineering
solutions are possible for the same problem, depend-
ing on factors such as choice of catalyst, relation
between chosen process conditions and catalyst de-
activation, and maybe most importantly, company
experience; the processes discussed are all based
on technology that was already in use for other
processes.
4.3. Good engineering practice
4.3.1. Feed puriﬁcation
When the feed contains a poison, adequate puriﬁca-
tion is the answer. Usually this will be done upstream
the reactor. It could also be advantageous to proﬁle
the reactor by positioning a layer of material that traps
the poison on top. In the case of fouling inert porous
balls are suitable.
A trivial way of solving the deactivation problem
can be to overdesign the bed. As the catalyst itself
might well be a perfect trap, after start-up the top lay-
ers will be slowly deactivated and in that way protect
the remainder of the bed. This procedure is quite com-
mon: under quasi steady-state conditions the reactor
consists of three parts: a deactivated toplayer, a layer
where full conversion is achieved and an active layer
that is not yet used for conversion. With increasing
time-on-stream the reacting part of the bed moves
towards the end while the deactivated part increases
in size.
4.3.2. Optimising reaction conditions
Obviously, deactivation very much depends on the
reaction conditions. A good example is coke forma-
tion in steam reforming. At high excess of steam
coke deposition is strongly diminished, mainly due to
increased coke removal rate.
The temperature is usually also quite critical. A
good example is the Pd/C catalysed selective hydro-
genation of CCl2F2 into CH2F2. At an H2/CCl2F2
ratio of 12 and a pressure of 0.2 MPa extended
stability studies were performed. Above 500 K de-
activation strongly increased with the temperature.
When the temperature was kept below 510 K a sat-
isfactory stability (on a months scale) was observed
[30].
4.3.3. Optimal conditions as function of
time-on-stream
In practice, the process conditions will be adapted
such that during a certain period of time a stationary
level of activity is maintained. Usually, this is done
by increasing the operating temperature gradually to
compensate for activity loss, often at the expense of
selectivity. It is unavoidable that the higher temper-
ature results in accelerated deactivation. At a certain
time-on-stream (varying from seconds to years),
16
J.A. Moulijn et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 212 (2001) 3–16
deactivation cannot be compensated for any more,
resulting in a fast decline, as shown in Fig. 3.
5. Concluding remarks
Catalyst deactivation is an important issue in the
petroleum reﬁning and chemical industries. It plays
an important part in process design and operation.
The ﬁve main causes of deactivation are: poisoning,
fouling, thermal degradation (sintering, evaporation)
initiated by the often high temperature, mechani-
cal damage and corrosion/leaching by the reaction
mixture. In the ﬁrst two cases, the catalyst might
be regenerated in some way. Sintering, evaporation
and leaching sometimes also can be cured, but here
usually the best strategy is prevention.
Several measures can be taken to decrease the rate
of deactivation, or else, to restore the catalyst activ-
ity. The best action is to improve the intrinsic stabil-
ity by tailoring catalyst properties such as the active
phase, the texture, the diffusion length (particle size,
active phase proﬁle), reaction conditions and phases
present (gas, liquid, near critical). An obvious action
is adequate puriﬁcation of the feed, to prevent poison-
ing and some types of fouling. When those measures
are not sufﬁcient, more chemical reaction engineering
solutions can be applied such as dedicated reactor set
ups with catalyst moving between a reaction zone and
a regeneration zone. This is an example of transient
operation [31], i.e. the catalyst is not kept at the same
place but cycled between two different environments:
in one it acts in the designed way, in the other it is
regenerated.
References
[1] R.J. Farrauto, C.H. Bartholomew, Fundamentals of Industrial
Catalytic Processes, Blackie, London, 1997, p. 265.
[2] P.W.N.M. Van Leeuwen, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001)
61.
[3] C.H. Bartholomew, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001) 17.
[4] M.F.M. Zwinkels, S.G. Järås, P.G. Menon, in: A. Cybulski,
J.A. Moulijn (Eds.), Structured Catalytic Reactors, Marcel
Dekker, New York, 1998, p. 149.
[5] C.S.
Satterﬁeld,
Heterogeneous
Catalysis
in
Industrial
Practice, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill, USA, 1991 (Chapter 6).
[6] C. de Bellefon, P. Fouilloux, Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 36 (3)
(1994) 459.
[7] C.S. Satterﬁeld, Heterogeneous Catalysis in Industrial Prac-
tice, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill, USA, 1991 (Chapter 4).
[8] J.P. Janssens, Characterisation, Testing and Deactivation of
Sulﬁded Catalysts in the Hydrodemetallisation of Vanadyl-
Tetraporphyrin, Ph.D. Thesis, Delft University of Technology,
The Netherlands, 1996 (Chapter 8).
[9] P. Chen, H.-B. Zhang, G.-D. Lin, Q. Hong, K.R. Tsai, Carbon
35 (10/11) (1997) 1495.
[10] P. Arnoldy, J.A. Moulijn, J. Catal. 93 (1985) 38.
[11] G.W. Bridger, M.S. Spencer, in: M.V. Twigg (Ed.), Catalyst
Handbook, 2nd Edition, Manson Publishing, London, 1996,
p. 441.
[12] M.V. Twigg, D.E. Webster, in: A. Cybulski, J.A. Moulijn
(Eds.), Structured Catalytic Reactors, Marcel Dekker, New
York, 1998, p. 59.
[13] L.L. Hedegus, R.W. McCabe, Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 23 (1981)
377.
[14] P. Forzatti, L. Lietti, Catal. Today 52 (1999) 165.
[15] J.J. Lerou, P.L. Mills, in: M.P.C. Weijnen, A.A.H. Drinken-
burg (Eds.), Precision Process Technology, Kluwer Academic
Publishers, Dordrecht, 1993, p. 175.
[16] R.M. Contractor, H.E. Bergna, H.S. Horowitz, C.M. Black-
stone, B. Malone, C.L. Torardi, B. Grifﬁths, U. Chowdhry,
A.W. Sleight, Catal. Today 1 (1987) 54.
[17] T.A. Nijhuis, A.E.W. Beers, Th. Vergunst, I. Hoek, F.
Kapteijn, J.A. Moulijn, Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. (2001) in press.
[18] J.P.A. Neeft, M. Makkee, J.A. Moulijn, Fuel Process. Technol.
47 (1996) 1.
[19] M.V. Twigg, A.J.J. Wilkins, in: A. Cybulski, J.A. Moulijn
(Eds.), Structured Catalytic Reactors, Marcel Dekker, New
York, 1998, p. 91.
[20] M.V. Twigg, R.A. Sheldon, App. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001)
175.
[21] R.A.
Meyers
(Ed.)
Handbook
of
Petroleum
Reﬁning
Processes, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill, 1997.
[22] S.T. Sie, App. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001) 129.
[23] M.E. Dry, Catal. Today 6 (3) (1990) 183.
[24] S.T. Sie, Rev. Chem. Eng. 14 (2) (1998) 109.
[25] P.R. Sarathy, G.S. Suffridge, Hydroc. Process Feb. (1993) 43.
[26] P.R. Pujado, B.V. Vora, Hydroc. Process March (1990) 65.
[27] S. Gussow, R. Whitehead, in: Paper Presented at the 1991
NPRA Annual Meeting, San Antonio, TX, 17–19 March
1991.
[28] N. Calamur, M. Carrera, in: J.I. Kroschwitz, M. Howe-Grant
(Eds.), Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology,
Vol. 20, 4th Edition, Wiley, New York, p. 249.
[29] R.O. Dunn, F.M. Brinkmeyer, G.F. Schuette, in: Paper
Presented at the 1992 NPRA Annual Meeting, New Orleans,
LA, 22–24 March 1992.
[30] A. Wiersma, E.J.A.X. van de Sandt, M. Makkee, J.A.
Moulijn, App. Catal. A: Gen. 212 (2001) 233.
[31] A. Zwijnenburg, A. Stankiewicz, J.A. Moulijn, CEP, Novem-
ber, 1998.
