<quotes>
[1] "Supported metal catalysts modified by addition of a second metal may substantially differ in terms of activity or selectivity from their monometallic counterparts (1)."
[2] "On one hand, Koussathana et al. (2) found that bimetallic PdPt formulations exhibit higher activities than the two pure metals toward the hydrogenation of naphthalene and biphenyl."
[3] "In the case of the hydrogenation of phenylacetylene to styrene, Carturan et al. (4) found that the specific activity of PdPt catalysts is smaller than the sum of individual Pd and Pt in the 10100% Pt range."
[4] "The laser vaporization technique has proven to be a unique way to obtain bimetallic clusters with a remark- ably uniform composition."
[5] "On the other hand, Deganello and co-workers (5) observed that the addition of Pt reduces both the activity and the selectivity of the Pd catalysts in the liquid-phase hydro- genation of 1,3-cyclooctadiene to cyclooctene."
[6] "In this paper, we report on the preparation, the character- ization, and the catalytic behavior of pure Pd or Pt as well as bimetallic PdPt clusters produced by laser vaporization of bulk metals and alloys and deposited on high surface area alumina (γ -Al2O3)."
[7] "The vapor-phase hydrogenation of toluene has been used to test our catalysts since this reaction has been exten- sively studied by the group of Vannice over monometallic Pd/Al2O3 (15) and Pt/Al2O3 (16) catalysts prepared by the incipient wetness technique."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The most commonly utilized synthesis methods for supported bimetallic catalysts include laser vaporization, chemical methods, and physical methods such as impregnation. Laser vaporization stands out due to its ability to produce bimetallic clusters with remarkably uniform composition, independent of any possible support effect.

2. The results concerning the pure metals are in agreement with those of the literature. On the bimetallic catalysts, it has been demonstrated that no synergy between the two elements can be evidenced, the rates being perfectly explained by an additivity of the properties of the two metals.

3. The behavior of the Pd17Pt83 bimetallic system at high temperature, which shows a cooperative effect between Pd and Pt, is interpreted by the ability of Pd to supply hydrogen in sufficient amount, whereas the aromatics remain more strongly bonded on platinum.

4. The uniformity of composition achieved by the laser vaporization technique is attributed to the fact that the clusters are already formed before the deposition, unlike chemical methods where the composition is governed by the respective affinity of the precursors for the support.

5. The addition of Pt reduces both the activity and the selectivity of the Pd catalysts in the liquid-phase hydrogenation of 1,3-cyclooctadiene to cyclooctene, as observed by Deganello and co-workers (5).

6. The vapor-phase hydrogenation of toluene has been used to test the catalysts due to its extensive study over monometallic Pd/Al2O3 and Pt/Al2O3 catalysts prepared by the incipient wetness technique.

7. The laser vaporization technique is adapted to obtain bimetallic catalysts with all kinds of alloys, even with nonmiscible metals like Au Ni (19) or AgNi (31), as it is in principle applicable for this purpose.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 制备支持型双金属催化剂的最常用方法包括激光蒸发、化学方法和物理方法如浸渍。激光蒸发因其能够产生具有明显均匀组成的双金属簇而脱颖而出，独立于任何可能的支持效应。

2. 对于纯金属而言，其结果与文献中的一致。在双金属催化剂上，已证明无法观察到两种元素之间的协同作用，速率完全由两种金属的性质相加解释。

3. 在高温度下，Pd17Pt83双金属系统的协同作用被解释为Pd能够提供足够的氢气，而芳香族化合物则更牢固地绑定在铂上。

4. 激光蒸发技术的均匀性是由于簇在沉积前已经形成，不同于化学方法，其中组成由前体对支持物的亲和力决定。

5. Deganello及其同事观察到，在液相氢化1,3-环辛二烯生成环辛烯的过程中，添加Pt会降低Pd催化剂的活性和选择性（5）。

6. 由于范尼斯特鲁伊小组对使用浸渍技术制备的Pd/Al2O3和Pt/Al2O3单金属催化剂的广泛研究，使用气相苯酚氢化测试催化剂。

7. 激光蒸发技术适用于所有类型的合金，甚至非互溶金属如Au Ni（19）或AgNi（31），因为它原则上适用于此目的。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
