I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757 Review Heterogeneous well-defined catalysts for metathesis of inert and not so inert bonds
C. Thieuleux, C. Copret, V. Dufaud, C. Marangelli, E. Kuntz, J.M. Basset
Laboratoire de Chimie Organomtallique de Surface, UMR CNRS-CPE 9986, 43 Bd. du 11 Novembre 1918, Villeurbanne Cedex 69616, France Abstract The present short review article reports four examples of catalytic reactions realised on relatively well-defined supported catalysts. These catalysts were conceptually designed and prepared by a Surface Organometallic Chemistry (SOMC) approach. They were designed for achieving the olefin metathesis reaction, the ZieglerNatta depolymerisation, the low temperature hydrogenolysis of alkanes and the alkane metathesis reaction. These reactions are related to the metathesis of inert bonds. The first example is the silica-supported rhenium (VII) carbene species [(SiO)Re(C-t-Bu)(=CH-t-Bu)(CH2-t-Bu)] obtained by grafting Re(C-t-Bu)(=CH-t-Bu)(CH2-t-Bu)2 on silica. This catalyst has turned out to be very active in the propene metathesis reaction (initial T.O.F. = 0.25 mol/mol Re/s) after an initiation step involving a cross-metathesis reaction between the neopentylidene ligand and propene.
The silica or silicaalumina-supported zirconium hydride(s) catalyse(s) the depolymerisation of polyethylene into lower oligomers and diesel range hydrocarbons. The depolymerisation reaction mechanism involves a -alkyl transfer which is the microscopic reverse of the Cossee mechanism of olefin insertion into a metal alkyl bond. Moreover, in the case of low-density branched polyethylenes (LDBP), the cleavage of the polymer chain occurs preferentially on the branches of the initial polymer. Therefore, the branched initial polyethylene is transformed into a linear one. Besides, recent advances in NMR spectroscopic techniques have highlighted that the zirconium hydride catalyst contains in fact two surface species: a zirconium monohydride (major) and a zirconium dihydride (minor).
The silica-supported tantalum hydride, [(SiO)2TaH], and the silica-supported zirconium hydrides [(SiO)2ZrH2] and [(SiO)3ZrH] both catalyse the low temperature hydrogenolysis of alkanes but with a major difference between the two metalstantalum hydride is able to cleave the CC bond of ethane whereas zirconium hydrides are not. In fact, the CC bond cleavage reactions go through different pathways:in the case of Zr the pathway of CC bond cleavage obeys a -alkyl transfer mechanism while, in the case of Ta, another pathway is required,which involves either -bond metathesis, oxidative addition or carbene mechanism. Notably, the tantalum hydride catalyst has also been found to be active in the alkane metathesis reaction. During this reaction, two different processes occur simultaneously: the productive alkane metathesis which leads to higher and lower alkane homologues and the scrambling of the initial alkane reagent. 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Rhenium(VII); Tantalum(III); Zirconium(III); Olefin metathesis; Alkane metathesis; Alkane hydrogenolysis; Depolymerisation; Surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC)
1. Introduction
Catalysis is primarily a molecular phenomenon, since it implies the transformation of molecules into other molecules independently of phase consideration (homogeneous or het- erogeneous). In heterogeneous catalysis, the level of un- derstanding is still limited because it is usually difficult to achieve a reliable structure-activity relationship. This dif- Corresponding author. Tel.: +33-472-43-17-93;fax: +33-472-43-17-92.
E-mail address: basset@cpe.fr (J.M. Basset). ficulty arises from the small number of active site(s), a con- cept already introduced in 1927 by Taylor [1]. Despite the impressive number of current physico-chemical tools avail- able to characterise surfaces at an atomic and molecular level, the detection of these active sites is extremely difficult either as such or under working catalytic conditions (detec- tion of reaction intermediates).
In order to achieve a higher level of understanding and eventually find new catalytic systems, it is necessary to pre- pare on surfaces well-defined active sites uniform in com- position and distribution, and thereby generate single-site heterogeneous catalysts. This objective is most crucial for 1381-1169/$  see front matter  2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.molcata.2003.11.028 48
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
Scheme 1. X [78], X2 [78], X3 [78], LX2 [73], LX [5,79], XZ [80]. the catalytic reactions, which are difficult to achieve either in homogeneous or heterogeneous catalysis, and eventually it might help to discover new catalytic reactions, which do not exist either in homogeneous, heterogeneous or even en- zymatic reactions!
The strategy to make these well-defined active sites is based on a number of hypotheses:• Firstly, it is necessary to enter the catalytic cycle via a postulated reaction intermediate (or one of its immediate precursor). Preferably it is necessary to draw a reasonable mechanism derived from molecular organometallic chem- istry and focus on the crucial stable intermediate (when the sites are well-defined and in high concentrations on the surface, it is possible, in principle, to study elementary steps and determine those reaction intermediates). This concept may seem obvious in homogeneous catalysis,but it is not the general rule in heterogeneous catalysis.
Classically in heterogeneous catalysis, the catalyst, which may be an oxide, a sulphide, a carbide. . . or a metal par- ticle, goes through one or several intermediates of the catalytic cycle by means of the reaction of the reagents and products with the surface. A typical example is the oxidation of propene by molecular oxygen on Bi-Mo catalysts [2,3] whose mechanism has been rationalised a posteriori. • Secondly, one has to consider the surface as a classi- cal ligand of co-ordination chemistry such as X-, L- or Z-ligands in the Green formalism. Doing so, one has access to formal oxidation state, electron configuration and electron count of the active metal. Typical examples are given in Scheme 1. Interestingly, by considering the surface as a classical ligand of co-ordination chemistry,it is possible to make electron counts in the same way as in molecular chemistry. This is important since it allows to predict the reactivity of the active site and the mecha- nism by which it will operate (oxidative addition, -bond metathesis, etc.. . . ). • Thirdly, one may eventually use spectator ligands above the surface in order to tune the activity, the selectivity and the life time. • Fourthly, like for enzyme, one may also control the hy- drophobicity or hydrophilicity of the local environment [4] via the presence of organic ligands on the surface at the vicinity of the catalytic site. Several examples developed in the laboratory are given in Scheme 2. • Finally, one has to prove surface structures of relevant catalytic intermediates with the accuracy of both molec- ular and solid state chemistry. This is also a critical point because these two scientific communities have not communicated enough between each other and have implemented their own preference for tools. However, Scheme 2. (a) Olefin metathesis catalyst [81], (b) olefin polymerisation catalyst [80], (c) epoxidation catalyst [82,83], (d) Lewis acid catalysis for transesterification [84].
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
49 working with well-defined surface systems allows to use physical characterisation techniques very efficiently (reliable data) since it is easier to understand a single species than a myriad of them. For example, on single site systems, EXAFS and/or XANES provide reliable coordi- nation numbers, while it is usually a major difficulty for these techniques on ill-defined systems. Regarding solid state NMR, which is also a quite demanding technique (because of its low sensibility), it has been developed into an extremely powerful tool for structural characterisa- tion of inorganic or organic solids, macromolecules and even proteins. Advanced solid state NMR techniques (2D HETCOR, J-resolved and DQ NMR) have been recently implemented in our laboratory in collaboration with the Laboratoire de Chimie in the Ecole Normale Suprieure de Lyon (Prof. Emsley) and has allowed us to observe surface carbenes or carbynes (2D HETCOR) [5], agos- tic interaction (J-resolved 2D NMR) [5] and zirconium dihydrides (DQ 1H NMR) [6].
This approach has been called the Surface Organometallic Chemistry (SOMC) [7]. This discipline of chemistry con- sists in bringing the concepts and the experimental tools of molecular chemistry, especially organometallic chemistry,to surface science and heterogeneous catalysis.
Pioneering work started in the 1960 in polymer chem- istry, but SOMC, in its present form, really addresses the structure of the active sites, its reactivity and its fate during catalysis in order to develop and improve catalysts through structure-activity correlation.
In relation with the meeting metathesis of olefins and related reactions (ISOM XV, Kyoto, July 2003), we have focused on the recent advances in Surface Organometal- lic Chemistry applied to the metathesis of olefins, but also look at the metathesis of more inert bonds, such as CH, CC and HH bonds (elementary steps involved in the low temperature hydrogenolysis and metathesis of alkanes).
As examples, we describe herein the characterisation and catalytic properties of three highly active and selective cat- alysts prepared via the Surface Organometallic Chemistry method developed in the laboratory: I Silica-supported rhenium carbene species for olefin metathesis.
II Silicaalumina-supported zirconium hydride for poly- ethylene depolymerisation.
III Silica-supported tantalum hydride for alkane hydro- genolysis and alkane metathesis.
I. Silica-supported rhenium carbene species for
olefins metathesis Some of the first olefin metathesis catalysts have been prepared by British Petroleum scientists by impregnation of rhenium(VII) oxide on alumina [811]. These Re2O7/Al2O3 catalyst has been extensively studied as it shows a high ac- tivity in olefin metathesis at low temperatures (273373 K) even with some functionalised olefins [12]. Noteworthy,only 2% of the supported rhenium is actually active [13] in the desired reaction. This is probably related to the very specific environment of the active site, which requires probably the proximity of the rhenium atom with a highly acidic aluminium sites of the support. This dual system is necessary both for the initiation reaction, formation of the metallocarbene, and the propagation reaction. The dra- matical influence of the support acidity has been confirmed by the absence of any catalytic activity of Re2O7 supported on silica, a rather non acidic support [1418].
As metallocarbenes have been recognised as key interme- diates in olefin metathesis, the SOMC approach dictates the need to generate a supported rhenium carbene covalently linked to an oxide support [1922]. This would present the obvious advantage of avoiding the initiation step of the met- allocarbene, a still unknown pathway on the classical het- erogeneous catalysts. As complexes of rhenium(VII) having a d0-configuration [23] and containing alkylidene ligands [2430] are some of the best catalysts for olefin metathesis in homogeneous catalytic systems, it has been decided to gen- erate a rhenium(VII) carbene supported on silica by grafting Re(C-t-Bu)(=CH-t-Bu)(CH2-t-Bu)2 [3133] on the sur- face silanol groups [34]. The choice of an alkyl precursor is particularly indicated, given the well-known clean graft- ing reaction undergone by such species. Typically, an alkyl precursor reacts with the silica surfaces reacting silanols,by elimination of an alkane molecule and the concomitant formation of a (SiOM) bond.
Effectively Re(C-t-Bu)(=CH-t-Bu)(CH2-t-Bu)2 reacts with silica partially dehydroxylated at 700 C. By using this dehydroxylation temperature, the reactive sites of the surface consist mainly in isolated silanols. As expected, the grafting reaction leads to the monografted supported species 1 (see Scheme 3(a)) by elimination of one equivalent of neopentane.
This first example of silica-supported rhenium (VII) carbenecarbyne complexe 1 was fully characterized by EXAFS (see Scheme 3(b)), NMR spectroscopies (see Scheme 3(c)) (1D 13C and 1H, 2D HETCOR and J resolved solid state NMR), IR spectroscopy and elemental analysis [34].
This well-defined rhenium heterogeneous catalyst, pre- pared via Surface Organometallic Chemistry was found to be very active in olefin metathesis. When 500 equivalents of propene are contacted with 1 at 25 C the equilibrium with the products of metathesis is reached within less than one hour (see Fig. 1(a), curve 1) and the initial T.O.F. is
0.25 mol/mol Re/s [34].
As reported in Table 1, these catalytic performances are comparable to those observed with the best classical hetero- geneous catalysts.
Moreover, the evolvement of one equivalent of a 1:3 mix- ture of 3,3-dimethylbutene and 4,4-dimethyl-2-pentene (see Fig. 1(a), curve 2 and 3), during the first hour of reaction,50
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
Scheme 3. (a) Chemical reaction. (b) Structure of the supported rhenium catalyst. (c) 13C CP MAS solid state NMR.
Table 1 Catalyst [12] Support
T.O.F.
(mol/mol Re/s) Temperature
(C)
MoO3 Al2O3
0.20
150250
WO3
Al2O3
0.40
350400 Re2O7 Al2O3
0.14
20100 Re2O7 SiO2
0.01
100 SiORe(CtBu) (=CHtBu)CH2tBu SiO2
0.101.00
25 gives a clear molecular insight into the activation process of the rhenium catalyst by a cross-metathesis reaction between the alkylidene ligand and the propene (see Fig. 1(b)).
II. Silicaalumina-supported zirconium hydride for polyethy-
lene depolymerisation In the 1950s, Ziegler and Natta discovered that transition metals could catalyse the polymerisation of propylene or Fig. 1. (a) Amounts of products evolved in the first hour of reaction. (b) Cross-metathesis transition states. ethylene giving access to new paraffinic polymers [3538].
This discovery led to a large scale production of valuable,but non biodegradable polymers. In order to solve the envi- ronmental problem of polymer waste, the depolymerisation of these polyolefins into olefinic oligomers, monomers or useful chemicals is an important field. A SOMC approach of this subject of interest requires a molecular level under- standing of the target reaction.
As the ZieglerNatta polymerisation is based on consec- utive insertions of olefins in a metalalkyl bond [39,40],the depolymerisation reaction could involve successive de-insertions of olefins from the metal-alkyl catalyst (see Scheme 4(a)).
In terms of mechanism, the insertion of an olefin in a metalalkyl bond (elementary step of the ZieglerNatta polymerisation; the well known Cossee mechanism) is the microscopic reverse of the -alkyl transfer [4153] (see Scheme 4(b)). It should be, therefore, possible to use the principle of microreversibility to drive the equilibrated
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
51 Scheme 4. (a) Polymerisation-depolymerisation key-step. (b) Depolymeri- sation via -alkyl transfer, hydrogenation and olefin insertion. elementary step in the reverse direction: -alkyl transfer.
As the olefin polymerisation is thermodynamically very favoured at moderate temperature, the reverse reaction of depolymerisation is really disfavoured at low or moderate temperatures. Therefore, the depolymerisation of poly- olefins is a very challenging goal!
In order to overcome this depolymerisation thermody- namic gap energy (see Scheme 4(b)), it is necessary to cou- ple the desired unfavourable reaction, with a highly favoured one, which would drive the overall system in the required direction. The hydrogenation of the double bond formed in the depolymerisation can be the solution. The overall reaction would become an hydrogenolysis of an alkane macromolecule to produce lower alkanes. Such favourable thermodynamic balance will be the driving force for the -alkyl transfer involved in the depolymerisation step (see Scheme 5).
The catalyst system able to achieve such kind of reaction should therefore be able to polymerise olefins. We chose a silica or silica alumina zirconium hydride-supported species,which were good candidates to fulfil these requirements (in- sertion of olefins [5461], alkane hydrogenolysis [6264]).
Since 1991, the silica-supported zirconium hydrides catalyst have been obtained by the grafting of tetraneopentylzirco- nium molecular complex on partially dehydroxylated silica followed by a treatment under hydrogen [64]. These reac- Scheme 5. G298 (kcal/mol) of the polymerisationdepolymerisation reaction. tions lead to the formation of (SiO)3ZrH 3a [62,63,65,66] as the major supported species (see Scheme 6(a)).
Zirconium hydride species has been analysed by different techniques: IR spectroscopy, EXAFS, 1D NMR spectro- scopies (1H and 13C solid state NMR), GC analysis [66].
Recent advances in solid state NMR spectroscopy tech- niques have allowed us to identify another supported species which seems to be present in smaller but nevertheless significant amounts on the surface: (SiO)2ZrH2 3b [6].
In particular, the characterisation of 3b has been made possible thanks to the development of a 1H 2D double quanta solid state NMR sequence, whose spectra present correlation signals for protons undergoing dipolar through-space inter- actions with other close spins. Therefore, such a sequence permits to identify isolated protons from non-isolated ones.
For the silica-supported zirconium hydrides described above,it has been possible to identify and assign two types of hy- dride resonances: at 10 and 12 ppm to a monohydride and a dihydride, respectively [6].
The 2D double quanta NMR spectroscopy also high- lighted the spatial proximity of the hydrogenosilane species and the zirconium monohydride. These data have ascer- tained the mechanism of the formation of the zirconium hydrides (see Scheme 6(b)), which involves opening the siloxane bridges and formation of (ZrOSi) and (SiH) bonds close to each other.
These two well-defined zirconium hydride complexes supported on silicaalumina [67], already known to catal- yse ethylene or propylene polymerisation [68], have been also found to depolymerise the resulting polymers [69]. The depolymerisation reaction can readily be monitored by IR spectroscopy.
For example, a mixture of 3a and 3b exposed to an ethy- lene pressure (200 Torr, room temperature) leads to the for- mation of polyethylene as observed by IR spectroscopy: the appearance of very intense bands characteristic of polyethy- lene [70] (29702850 cm1) and the concomitant decrease of the band (1635 cm1) attributed to (ZrH) vibrations (see Fig. 2). This polymerisation takes place via the inser- tion of ethylene into the ZrH bond to yield ZrEt bond, fol- lowed by multiple insertions of ethylene into the ZrC bond.
Upon heating this supported polymer at 150 C overnight under H2, the IR spectrum shows the disappearance of the aliphatic chains bands ((CH) 29702850 cm1 and 52
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
Scheme 6. (a) Hydrogenolysis of 2. (b) Mechanism of zirconium hydrides formation.
(CH) 1380 cm1) and the regeneration of the (ZrH) vi- bration band (see Fig. 2), thus demonstrating the reversibil- ity of this process under hydrogen and the possibility to depolymerise polyolefins.
The depolymerisation properties of this catalyst have been further studied by contacting commercial low-density polyethylene
(LDPE)
to zirconium hydride-supported Fig. 2. IR spectra (a) starting hydrides 3a and 3b. (b) After exposure to ethylene overnight at room temperature. (c) After heating at 150 C overnight under H2. species 3a and 3b under 1 bar of hydrogen at 150 C.
For example, this LDPE, initially composed of 23 long branches/1000 carbons and 11 butyl branches/1000 car- bons with Mn = 19,000 and a large polydispersity index (Ip = 7), was transformed into a linear polymer having a higher molecular weight (Mn = 42,000) and a lower Ip value (Ip = 4). The gas phase of the reaction mixture was composed of 46% (weight) of C1 to C8 linear alkanes.
During this process, the LDPE molecular weight number distribution becomes narrower with disappearance of the lower molecular weight numbers, which is consistent with the hydrogenolysis of the branches [71]. This was further confirmed by 13C NMR spectroscopy on the resulting poly- mer which shows the disappearance of the signals attributed to the carbons composing the butyl and the longer branches of the polymer (see Fig. 3) [71].
Based on these results, a mechanism involving a -alkyl-transfer as the key step of the polymer cleavage can be postulated (see Scheme 7):• activation of one CH bond of the polymer by the zirco- nium hydride catalyst leading to Zr-alkyl species;• formation of a Zr-alkyl species having a -alkyl branch through consecutive -H eliminations and olefin reinser- tion;• -alkyl branch elimination to obtain an alkyl-alkene zir- conium complex;• hydrogenation of the Zr-alkyl bond to yield the ZrH species;
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
53 Fig. 3. 13C CP MAS NMR spectra of the initial LDPE and after contact with 3a and 3b at 150 C under H2 during 6 h.
Scheme 7. Polymer cleavage postulated catalytic cycle.
Scheme 8. • reinsertion of the olefin into the ZrH bond to obtain a Zr-alkyl species;• hydrogenation of the zirconium-alkyl bond to regenerate the initial zirconium hydride catalyst.
III. Silica-supported tantalum hydride for alkane
hydrogenolysis and alkane metathesis Alkane hydrogenolysis [72] and alkane metathesis [7375] are catalysed by tantalum hydride species. Such species are prepared by impregnation of the [Ta(=CHtBu) (CH2tBu)3], on partially dehydroxylated silica at room tem- perature (see Scheme 8). The resulted supported complex 4 has been fully characterized by IR spectroscopy, ele- mental analysis, GC analysis, 1H and 13C solid state NMR spectroscopies and EXAFS [73].
The well-defined tantalum hydride disiloxy-species 5 has been consecutively obtained by treatment of 4 under hydro- gen at 150 C (see Scheme 9) [73] and has been character- ized by IR and NMR spectroscopies.
This supported species [(SiO)2TaH] (5) is an active catalyst for alkane hydrogenolysis [72], just as silica- supported group 4 hydrides (SiO)3MH (M = Ti, Zr, Hf) [53,64,66,76], which readily catalyse acyclic alkane hydrogenolysis and polyethylene depolymerisation [69] (as aforementioned). In contrast with these group 4 catalysts,54
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
Scheme 9. which yield methane/ethane mixtures as final products, the tantalum-supported species produces only methane as fi- nal product independently from the nature of the linear or branched initial alkane.
With group 4 metal hydrides, the proposed mechanism of this catalytic reaction involves a -alkyl transfer [4153] as the key step of the CC bond cleavage (vida supra). Since,the tantalum hydride-supported species converts alkanes in- cluding ethane into methane at 150 C, this rules out the -methyl transfer as the unique CC bond cleavage mech- anism in the case of tantalum. Further confirmation of this unique reactivity was obtained by studying the hydrogenol- ysis of 2,2-dimethylbutane catalysed by zirconium hydrides (3a and 3b) and tantalum hydride (5) complexes. The com- parison of the primary products evolved in the gas phase showed that 3a and 3b lead to isopentane [77] (which can be explained by a -methyl transfer pathway (see Scheme 10) as major product of higher alkanes while 5 produces neopen- tane (which can not be obtained by a -alkyl transfer) (see Scheme 10).This comparison clearly shows that another process for the CC bond cleavage takes place during the alkane hy- drogenolysis reaction catalysed by a tantalum-supported species with respect to group 4 catalysts. We suggest that a possible mechanism of the CC bond cleavage involves a four centred transition state although many other elemen- tary steps may also be explained by an oxidative addition Scheme 10. Fragmentation patways via -alkyl transfer mechanism. followed by reductive elimination or a carbene mechanism (see Scheme 11).Besides alkane hydrogenolysis,the silica-supported (SiOSi)(SiO)2TaH [73] catalyses alkane metathe- sis, a new reaction discovered in 1996. This reaction transforms linear or branched alkanes into their higher and lower homologues [74,75]. For example, Fig. 4 represents the distribution of the various products (at 3% conversion) evolved during the metathesis of the first linear alkanes catalysed by 5 at 150 C.The simplest case is the metathesis of ethane. Since this molecule has only one CC bond, it does not present any problem of selectivity. The products of the reaction are mostly propane (44%(mol)) and methane (53%(mol)) in nearly equal amounts with trace amounts of butane (2.4%(mol)) and isobutane (0.6%(mol)). Thanks to 13C labelling experi- ments using monolabelled ethane as reagent and to GCMS analysis, the evolvement of unlabelled, mono-, di- and tril- abelled propane during the reaction is observed. These re- sults prove the redistribution of the 13C atoms in the propane molecules and thus, the cleavage of 13C12C bond of the ethane. These experiments also reveal the presence of an ad- ditional faster process occurring simultaneously to the for- mation of propane. Monolabelled ethane is converted into an 1:1 mixture of unlabelled and dilabelled ethane (see Scheme 12). Such scrambling process can be considered as a degenerative metathesis [75], in contrast with the
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
55 Scheme 11. alkane hydrogenolysis or metathesis mechanisms via -bond metathesis, oxidative addition and reductive elimination pathway and carbenic species.
Fig. 4. Distribution of the various hydrocarbons produced during the metathesis reaction of the first linear alkenes (at 3% conversion), catalysed by [Ta]sH complex at 150 C (ethane, propane, butane, isobutane/Ta ratio, 800, P = 1 atm). productive metathesis which leads to higher and lower alka- nes. This unproductive reaction has a rate which is ca. five times faster than the productive metathesis reaction.
In order to explain the productive and the degenerative metathesis, a specific mechanism of CC bond cleavage and formation can be suggested such as a four centred -bond metathesis transition state, an oxidative addi- tion/reductive elimination pathway or a carbenic mechanism (see Scheme 11).
Scheme 12.
2. Conclusion
The SOMC method developed in the laboratory, whose strategy is a molecular approach to heterogeneous catalysis,has allowed us to design, construct on a surface well-defined catalysts for desired reactions. Some were known and other were unknown. This approach allowed to increase the level of understanding of the mechanisms involved in various cat- alytic reactions.
As example, we have reported here the synthesis, charac- terisation and catalytic activities of three different tailored supported transition metal catalysts, as well as recent ad- vances in the understanding of the catalyst formation and of the catalytic reaction mechanisms.
The single-site silica-supported carbenic rhenium(VII) species [(SiO)Re(C-t-Bu)(=CHtBu)(CH2-t-Bu)] has been tested in the propene metathesis reaction. Its catalytic activity has been found to be high at moderate temperatures (initial T.O.F. = 0.25 mol/mol Re/s). The reaction equi- librium is rapidly reached (within less than one hour) and 56
C. Thieuleux et al. / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 213 (2004) 4757
the catalyst activation process has been elucidated: it is a cross-metathesis reaction of the neopentylidene ligand with the propene.
The well-defined silicaalumina-supported zirconium monohydride (as the major species) and dihydride species [(SiO)3ZrH and (SiO)2ZrH2] have been synthesised and characterized thanks to recent spectroscopic develop- ments. These supported catalysts have been found to be very active in the polyethylene depolymerisation reaction.
This depolymerisation occurs in presence of hydrogen via a mechanism involving a -alkyl transfer elementary step.
The third well-defined supported species reported above was the tantalum hydride catalyst [(SiO)2TaH]. It has been tested in the alkane hydrogenolysis reaction. As the group 4 transition metal catalysts, it catalyses this reaction, but shows a particular activity: it catalytically hydrogenolyzes ethane into methane. This proves that the mechanism of the alkane hydrogenolysis reaction catalysed by tantalum hydride differs from the mechanism proposed for group 4 catalysts. The silica-supported tantalum hydride species is also active in the metathesis of alkane, which transforms an alkane into its higher and lower homologues. This catalytic reaction has been studied using a monolabelled ethane reagent. In particular, these experiments have shown the presence of a simultaneous unproductive reaction during the ethane metathesis process, which consists in a scram- bling of ethane. The mechanism of the alkane metathesis (productive or not) can be related to that of the alkane hy- drogenolysis catalysed by the supported tantalum hydride.
It can be based on a CarbonCarbon -bond metathesis and the formation of a four centred transition intermediate.
Nevertheless an oxidative addition followed by a reductive elimination pathway or a carbenic mechanism cannot be excluded.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the preparation, structure, and catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions, detailing their mechanisms in H/D exchange and alkane metathesis. Include discussions on reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking in these processes.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 