<quotes>
[1] "Mesoporous molecular sieve silicas with wormhole framework structures (e.g. MSU-X,1,2 and HMS3) are generally more active heterogeneous catalysts in comparison to their ordered hexagonal analogs (e.g. MCM-41,4 SBA-35 and SBA-156)."
[2] "The enhanced reactivity has been attributed, in part, to a pore network that is connected in three dimensions, allowing the guest molecules to more readily access reactive centers that have been designed into the framework surfaces."
[3] "All of the wormhole framework structures reported to date have been prepared through supramolecular SoIo3 and NoIo1,2 assembly pathways wherein Io is an electrically neutral silica precursor (typically, tetraethylorthosilicate, TEOS), So is a neutral amine surfactant, and No is a neutral di- or tri-block surfactant containing polar polyethylene oxide (PEO) segments."
[4] "One disadvantage of these pathways, as with other assembly pathways based on TEOS, is the high cost of the hydrolyzable silicon alkoxide precursor."
[5] "Thermally stable mesoporous silica molecular sieve silicas with wormhole framework structures, previously obtainable only from silicon alkoxides, have been prepared from low cost soluble silicate precursors in the presence of non-ionic surfactants as structure directors."
[6] "In a typical synthesis the surfactant and an amount of acid equivalent to the hydroxide content of the sodium silicate solution (e.g. 27% SiO2, 14% NaOH, Aldrich) are first mixed at ambient temperature and then added to the sodium silicate solution to form reactive silica in the presence of the surfactant."
[7] "The retention of a mesoscopic structure was observed up to a calcination temperature of 480 C, but the complete removal of the surfactant at 600 C led either to the extensive restructuring of the silica framework, as indicated by the loss of mesoporosity or the formation of a completely amorphous material."
[8] "Fig. 1 illustrates the powder X-ray diffraction patterns of as-synthesized and calcined MSU-XA silicas prepared at three different temperatures using Brij 56 [C16H33(EO)10H] as the structure-directing surfactant."
[9] "Further evidence for the wormhole framework pore structure of MSU-XA silicas is provided by the typical transmission electron micrograph (TEM) image shown in Fig. 2."
[10] "The successful assembly of thermally stable mesoporous silica molecular sieve silicas with wormhole frameworks from soluble silicate precursors suggests that it may be possible to substitute soluble silicate precursors for the assembly of many other silica mesostructures that heretofore have been assembled exclusively from silicon alkoxide precursors."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Mesoporous molecular sieve silicas with wormhole framework structures, such as MSU-X, HMS3, etc., are typically more active as heterogeneous catalysts compared to their hexagonal counterparts like MCM-41, SBA-35, and SBA-156. This enhanced reactivity is partly due to their three-dimensional interconnected pore network, facilitating easier access to reactive sites on the framework surfaces. The wormhole framework structures have traditionally been created through specific assembly pathways involving silica precursors and surfactants. However, these methods often involve costly silicon alkoxides. The current study demonstrates that stable wormhole structures can be synthesized from less expensive silicate precursors, using non-ionic surfactants as structure directors. A typical synthesis involves mixing the surfactant with an acid equivalent to the hydroxide content of the sodium silicate solution, followed by adding this mixture to the sodium silicate solution. The retention of mesostructures is observed up to 480°C, but complete surfactant removal at 600°C can lead to framework restructuring or total amorphization. Powder X-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy confirm the wormhole structure of the synthesized silicas. The successful assembly method suggests potential for substituting silicate precursors in the creation of other silica mesostructures previously made solely from silicon alkoxides.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
具有隧道结构的介孔分子筛硅酸盐，如MSU-X、HMS3等，在作为非均相催化剂时通常比其六角晶格同系物（如MCM-41、SBA-35和SBA-156）更活跃。这种增强的反应性部分归因于它们三维互连的孔网络，这使得客体分子更容易访问框架表面上设计的活性中心。到目前为止报告的所有隧道结构都是通过超分子SoIo3和NoIo1、2组装途径制备的，其中Io是电中性的硅酸盐前体（通常是四乙氧基硅烷），So是一种中性的胺表面活性剂，No是一种包含聚乙烯氧化物（PEO）段的中性二或三块表面活性剂。这些途径的一个缺点是基于TEOS的其他组装途径的成本高昂。稳定的介孔分子筛硅酸盐具有隧道结构，以前只能从硅醇盐获得，现在已经能够使用低成本可溶性硅酸盐前体在非离子表面活性剂的存在下制备，作为结构导向剂。典型合成方法包括将表面活性剂与钠硅酸盐溶液中氢氧化物含量相当的酸混合，在室温下混合，然后将此混合物添加到钠硅酸盐溶液中，在表面活性剂的存在下形成反应性硅酸盐。保留微结构直到480°C，但完全去除表面活性剂至600°C会导致框架重排或完全无定形材料的形成。粉末X射线衍射图和透射电子显微镜显示了合成硅酸盐的隧道结构证据。成功的组装方法表明有可能用可溶性硅酸盐前体替换先前仅用于硅醇盐的其他硅酸盐微结构的组装。
