<quotes>
[1] "Mesoporous molecular sieve silicas with wormhole framework structures (e.g. MSU-X,1,2 and HMS3) are generally more active heterogeneous catalysts in comparison to their ordered hexagonal analogs (e.g. MCM-41,4 SBA-35 and SBA-156)."
[2] "The enhanced reactivity has been attributed, in part, to a pore network that is connected in three dimensions, allowing the guest molecules to more readily access reactive centers that have been designed into the framework surfaces."
[3] "All of the wormhole framework structures reported to date have been prepared through supramolecular SoIo3 and NoIo1,2 assembly pathways wherein Io is an electrically neutral silica precursor (typically, tetraethylorthosilicate, TEOS), So is a neutral amine surfactant, and No is a neutral di- or tri-block surfactant containing polar polyethylene oxide (PEO) segments."
[4] "One disadvantage of these pathways, as with other assembly pathways based on TEOS, is the high cost of the hydrolyzable silicon alkoxide precursor."
[5] "MSU-X mesostructures are structurally stable to calcination temperatures in excess of 800 C."
[6] "In a typical synthesis the surfactant and an amount of acid equivalent to the hydroxide content of the sodium silicate solution (e.g. 27% SiO2, 14% NaOH, Aldrich) are first mixed at ambient temperature and then added to the sodium silicate solution to form reactive silica in the presence of the surfactant."
[7] "After calcination at 600 C, the intensities of the porepore correlation peaks are substantially greater than the as-synthesized samples due to the removal of the contrast-matching surfactant."
[8] "The successful assembly of thermally stable mesoporous silica molecular sieve silicas with wormhole frameworks from soluble silicate precursors suggests that it may be possible to substitute soluble silicate precursors for the assembly of many other silica mesostructures that heretofore have been assembled exclusively from silicon alkoxide precursors."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the synthesis of mesoporous silica molecular sieves with wormhole framework structures from soluble silicate precursors. These materials are generally more active heterogeneous catalysts compared to their ordered hexagonal counterparts. The enhanced reactivity is attributed to their three-dimensional pore network, which facilitates easier access to reactive centers on the framework surfaces. The synthesis involves mixing a surfactant with an acid equivalent to the hydroxide content of the sodium silicate solution, followed by adding this mixture to the sodium silicate solution. The resulting structures are structurally stable even at high calcination temperatures. After calcination, the pore intensities significantly increase, indicating the removal of the surfactant. This method suggests the potential substitution of soluble silicate precursors for the assembly of other silica mesostructures traditionally made from silicon alkoxide precursors.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文档讨论了从可溶性硅酸盐前体合成具有蠕虫孔框架结构的介孔二氧化硅分子筛。这些材料通常比其有序六角形同系物更具有活性催化剂。增强的反应性归因于它们的三维孔网络，这使得客体分子更容易访问设计在框架表面上的活性中心。这种反应性是由其三维孔网络提高的，该网络允许客体分子更方便地接触框架表面上设计的活性中心。合成过程包括将表面活性剂与等同于硅酸钠溶液中氢氧化物含量的酸混合，在室温下进行，然后将此混合物添加到硅酸钠溶液中以形成反应性硅酸盐。经过烧结后，结构稳定性甚至在高温下也得到保持。烧结后，孔强度显著增加，表明表面活性剂已被去除。这种方法表明，有可能用可溶性硅酸盐前体替换先前仅从硅醇盐前体合成的其他二氧化硅微结构的组装。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
