<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Most of the current propylene production is performed by steam cracking (SC) and fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC).1 However, in both the SC and FCC processes, propylene is produced as a by-product and the selectivity and yields are always low.2 The availability of ethane as a major component of natural gas at natural gas prices has attracted many ethylene producers to utilize ethane instead of naphtha as the feedstock in steam crackers. As a result, the ratio of propylene/ethylene produced from steam crackers continues to decline. At the same time, driven by the expanding polypropylene market, the demand ratio of propylene/ethylene is increasing. For these reasons, it becomes increasingly important to develop on-purpose propylene production technologies that offer higher propylene/ethylene production ratios.1 Propane dehydrogenation has long been thought to be an ideal route for propylene production because of the theoretical high propylene selectivity and low capital investment, as well as the independence of the propylene production cost to naphtha price."
          [2] "Propane dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, so that very high reaction temperatures on the order of 1000K are required to give a high single-pass propane conversion.2,4 Hence, the separation of the resulting hydrogen and unreacted propane from propylene becomes an issue."
          [3] "Theoretically, introducing an oxidant can drive the reaction to be more thermodynamically favorable. However, the highest propylene yield reported for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) is only about 30%, owing mainly to the consecutive oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products.2,5 The oxidative dehydrogenation pathways to produce diolefins and aromatics suffer from the same issue."
          [4] "Although many different catalysts, promoters and alternative oxidants have been studied,2,5,6 a commercially viable breakthrough has yet to be achieved."
          [5] "Among the halogens, F2 is inappropriate because of its high reactivity and the unfavorable thermodynamics for its use in a halogenationdehydrohalogenation process. Similarly, Cl2 reactions with alkanes are always fast and non-selective, and under some conditions an explosion may occur.9 I2 reacts selectively, but relatively slowly, with propane at low temperatures to produce propyl iodides and propylene. High propylene yields can be achieved with stoichiometric I2 and propane feeding.10 However, this reaction is only thermodynamically favorable at high temperatures (FigureS1). Furthermore, as a stoichiometric reaction of I2 with propane is needed, the recycling efficiency of the relatively expensive I2 greatly limits the potential industrial application of this process.11"
          [6] "Compared to chlorine and iodine, reactions of bromine with propane are more feasible. However, to resolve the polyhalogenation selectivity issue in gaseous alkane bromination processes, a higher propane to bromine ratio is required to avoid the formation of 2,2-C3H6Br2.7 Consequently, single-pass propane conversion, using present technology, has limited utility."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The primary challenges in current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking (SC) and fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC), include low selectivity and yields for propylene, as it is produced as a by-product. The increasing use of ethane in steam crackers has led to a decline in the propylene/ethylene production ratio, while the demand for propylene is increasing due to the expanding polypropylene market. Propane dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring very high reaction temperatures for high single-pass propane conversion, which complicates the separation of hydrogen and unreacted propane from propylene. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by potentially offering higher propylene yields and selectivity, but it is limited by the consecutive oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, resulting in a maximum reported yield of about 30%. The selection of oxidants is crucial, as F2 is inappropriate due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are fast and non-selective, and I2 reactions are selective but slow and only thermodynamically favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions with propane are more feasible, but resolving the polyhalogenation selectivity issue requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting single-pass propane conversion.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战包括蒸汽裂解(SC)和流体催化裂解(FCC)等方法中丙烯的选择性和产量较低，因为丙烯是作为副产品产生的。由于在蒸汽裂解器中越来越多地使用乙烷，导致丙烯/乙烯生产比率下降，而由于聚丙烯市场的扩大，对丙烯的需求正在增加。丙烷脱氢受到热力学的限制，需要非常高的反应温度才能实现高单程丙烷转化率，这使得从丙烯中分离氢气和未反应的丙烷变得复杂。丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)通过可能提供更高的丙烯产量和选择性来解决这些问题，但受到丙烯连续氧化为含氧化合物的限制，导致最高报告的产量约为30%。氧化剂的选择至关重要，因为F2由于其高反应性和不利的热力学而不合适，Cl2反应快速且无选择性，而I2反应有选择性但缓慢，仅在高温下热力学有利。与氯和碘相比，溴与丙烷的反应更可行，但解决气态烷基溴化过程中的多卤化选择性问题需要更高的丙烷与溴的比例，这限制了单程丙烷转化率。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
