<quotes>
JOURNAL OF MATERIALS SCIENCE 27 (1992) 343-350 Assessment of the free surface area of magnesia-supported magnesium ferrite particles using selective oxygen chemisorption

D. E. STOBBE, F. R. VAN BUREN
Dow Benelux N.V., PO Box 48, 4530 AA Terneuzen, The Netherlands

A. J. ORBONS, A. J. VAN DILLEN, J. W. GEUS
Department of Inorganic Chemistry, State University of Utrecht, PO Box 80083, 3508 TB, Utrecht, The Netherlands

The free surface area of iron oxide catalysts supported on magnesium oxide has been deter- mined using selective oxygen chemisorption at room temperature. The oxygen chemisorption experiments were performed on reduced catalysts. It has appeared to be essential that the iron oxide phase, which is present as MgFe204 in the fresh calcined catalysts, is reduced uniquely to FeO, prior to the chemisorption experiment. Crystatlite sizes typically in the range of 20-23 nm have been found independent of the catalyst loading and the type of precursors. A higher iron loading does not lead to larger crystallites, but rather to more crystallites of about the same average size.

Results are in very good agreement with those obtained by X-ray line broadening and electron microscopy.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The free surface area of iron oxide catalysts supported on magnesium oxide was assessed using selective oxygen chemisorption at room temperature. Crucial for the experiment is the reduction of the iron oxide phase from MgFe204 to FeO before the chemisorption process. The crystallite sizes, typically around 20-23 nm, remained consistent regardless of the catalyst loading or precursor type. Contrary to expectations, a higher iron loading did not yield larger crystallites but resulted in more smaller crystallites of approximately the same size. The findings align well with those from X-ray line broadening and electron microscopy analyses.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
铁氧化物催化剂上支持的镁铁氧体粒子的自由表面面积，通过在室温下选择性氧气化学吸附进行了评估。实验的关键在于将原始煅烧催化剂中的MgFe204铁氧化物相还原为FeO之前进行化学吸附实验。晶粒大小通常在20-23 nm范围内，与催化剂负载和前驱体类型无关。令人意外的是，较高的铁负载并未导致更大的晶粒，而是产生了更多大小相近但数量更多的晶粒。这些结果与X射线线宽扩展和电子显微镜分析的结果非常吻合。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
