<quotes>

[1] "This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support813 owing to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores that boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores12,13."

[2] "The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, since its discovery in the early 1990s3,7. The Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity, but rapidly deactivates as a result of coke deposition on the Pt surface."

[3] "The coke deposition also causes an undesirable loss of the catalytic selectivity to propylene."

[4] "Our search for a highly active and more durable PDH catalyst has focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/ mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support."

[5] "This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support813 owing to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores that boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores12,13."

[6] "The PtREE/zeolite showed formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles generated in this manner exhibited a distinctive H2 sorp- tion behaviour (see Extended Data Table1)."

[7] "The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH cata- lytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability, as shown in Fig.2."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The pore structure of the catalyst support, particularly the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of the siliceous MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in enhancing the catalytic performance of supported metals by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores boost the catalytic performance. The use of this zeolite as a replacement for alumina support in the PDH process has led to a significant improvement in the durability and selectivity of the catalyst, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support, which exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂载体的孔结构，特别是硅酸盐MFI沸石的分级微/介孔结构，在增强支撑金属的催化性能方面起着关键作用，通过促进反应物和产物的扩散以及提供高金属纳米粒子分散度来实现。超薄沸石框架和三维互连介孔提高了催化性能。使用这种沸石代替PDH过程中的氧化铝载体，显著提高了催化剂的耐久性和选择性，这从整个沸石支撑上形成的Pt3La和Pt3Y纳米粒子，以及它们表现出的独特的H2吸附行为和PDH催化性能所有方面的显著增强，包括活性、选择性和耐久性，可以看出。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
