<quotes>

[1] "The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, since its discovery in the early 1990s3,7. The Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity, but rapidly deactivates as a result of coke deposition on the Pt surface. The coke deposition also causes an undesirable loss of the catalytic selectivity to propylene."
[2] "This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support813 owing to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores that boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores12,13."
[3] "The PtREE/zeolite showed formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles generated in this manner exhibited a distinctive H2 sorp- tion behaviour (see Extended Data Table1)."
[4] "The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH cata- lytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability, as shown in Fig.2."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades. The Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity, but rapidly deactivates as a result of coke deposition on the Pt surface. The coke deposition also causes an undesirable loss of the catalytic selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support. Its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores, boosts the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The PtREE/zeolite showed formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles generated in this manner exhibited a distinctive H2 sorption behavior. The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.工业PDH过程近三十年来一直使用负载在多孔氧化铝上的PtSn双金属催化剂。单独的Pt金属表现出高初始催化活性，但由于Pt表面的焦炭沉积而迅速失活。焦炭沉积还会导致催化选择性向丙烯的不期望的损失。使用多铵表面活性剂作为结构导向剂合成的介孔沸石因其独特的结构而受到关注，作为先进的催化剂载体。其独特的结构由超薄沸石框架和三维互连的介孔组成，通过提供反应物和产物的易扩散以及介孔内金属纳米粒子的高分散性，提高了所支持金属的催化性能。PtREE/沸石在沸石载体上形成了Pt3La和Pt3Y纳米粒子。以这种方式生成的Pt3La和Pt3Y纳米粒子表现出独特的H2吸附行为。在脱镓沸石上形成Pt3La和Pt3Y纳米粒子在PDH催化性能的所有方面都带来了显著的增强，包括活性、选择性和耐久性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
