<quotes>
[1] "The vast majority of crystal structures are determined by X-ray diffraction. The interaction of an X-ray with the crystal charge density is sufficiently strong to yield diffraction data with high signal-to-noise but weak enough to be described as kinematical in nature."
[2] "In 1994, Vincent and Midgley introduced a technique that involved rocking the beam to give hollow cone illumination onto the specimen and then de-rocking the beam back onto the optic axis below the specimen."
[3] "The circular patch of reflections in the zero-order Laue zone (ZOLZ) has a radius equal to twice the precession angle, and the width of the annulus of reflections in the HOLZ is equal to the precession angle."
[4] "The electron intensity is much weaker and the features are analogous to the absorption edges found in X-ray absorption spectra, and they arise from scattering of the transmitted electrons by inner-shell (core) electrons of each element present in the specimen."
[5] "The electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) and electron-loss imaging in STEM and energy-filtered TEM (EFTEM) is the information pertaining to composition and structure they yield: valence states, bond distances, and composition may all, under ideal conditions, be retrieved from the kind of spectra schematized in Figure 21."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The majority of crystal structures are determined by X-ray diffraction, which involves the interaction of X-rays with the crystal charge density, producing high signal-to-noise ratio data that can be described as kinematical.

2. In 1994, Vincent and Midgley introduced a technique called precession electron diffraction, which involves rocking the beam to give hollow cone illumination onto the specimen and then de-rocking the beam back onto the optic axis below the specimen.

3. In precession electron diffraction, the radius of the circular patch of reflections in the zero-order Laue zone (ZOLZ) is equal to twice the precession angle, and the width of the annulus of reflections in the high-order Laue zone (HOLZ) is equal to the precession angle.

4. At higher energy loss, the electron intensity is much weaker and the features are analogous to the absorption edges found in X-ray absorption spectra, arising from scattering of the transmitted electrons by inner-shell (core) electrons of each element present in the specimen.

5. Electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) and electron-loss imaging in STEM and EFTEM provide valuable information on composition and structure, including valence states, bond distances, and composition under ideal conditions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 大多数晶体结构是由X射线衍射确定的，这种相互作用足以产生具有高信噪比的数据，并且可以被描述为动力学性质。

2. 1994年，Vincent和Midgley引入了一种称为预cession电子衍射的技术，该技术涉及摇动束以将空心圆锥照射到标本上，然后将束重新摇动到位于标本下方的光学轴上。

3. 在预cession电子衍射中，零级劳厄区（ZOLZ）中的环形反射的半径等于预cession角度的两倍，而在高阶劳厄区（HOLZ）中的环状反射的宽度等于预cession角度。

4. 在较高能量损失下，电子强度较弱，特征类似于X射线吸收光谱中的吸收边，由标本中每个元素的内壳（核心）电子散射产生的。

5. 电子能量损失谱(EELS)和STEM和EFTEM中的电子损失成像提供了有关组成和结构的重要信息，包括在理想条件下可以获得的价态、键距和组成。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
