<quotes>
Oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane on MgO-supported vanadium oxide catalysts
J.M. Lo
pez Nietoa,*, A. Dejozb, M.I. Vazquezb, W. O'Learyc, J. Cunninghunc a Instituto de Tecnolog a Qu mica, UPV-CSIC, Avenida de los Naranjos s/n, 46022-Valencia, Spain b Departamento de Ingenier a Qu mica, Universidad de Valencia, Dr. Moliner 50, 46100-Burjasot, Spain c Department of Chemistry, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland
Abstract Vanadiummagnesium oxide (VMgO) catalysts have been prepared, characterized and tested in the ODH of n-butane. The catalysts were prepared by two variations of the wet-impregnation method using aqueous ammonium metavanadate or organically-based methanolic vanadyl acetylacetonate solutions. The catalyst surface area depends on the vanadium content and the preparation method. Catalyst characterization (i.e. XRD, 51V NMR, FTIR, LRS) results indicate the presence of poor crystalline Mg-orthovanadate (Mg3V2O8), while the presence of other Mg-vanadates is not clear. Oxygen isotopic-exchange experiments on VMgO catalysts indicate an R2 process: 18O2  216O2 s ! 18O18O16O16O4 s ! 218O2 s 16 O2g at temperatures higher than 1023 K, while an R0-type [18O2(g)16O2(g)!216O18O(g)] is observed at 823 K, as a consequence of a small activity for homophase isotopic. Both the catalytic activity and the selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products depend on the vanadium content but is independent on the catalyst preparation method. This behavior is observed in the ODH of n- butane with both O2 and N2O. However, while conversion of n-butane was higher when using O2 as oxidant, the selectivity to C4-olens was higher with N2O as oxidant. Pulse experiments show that prereduced surfaces are not effective in producing olens while selective catalysts are achieved with preoxidized surface. A mechanism for the oxidative dehydrogenation of n- butane is proposed. # 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of n-butane on MgO-supported vanadium oxide catalysts. The catalysts are prepared using two variations of the wet-impregnation method. The catalytic activity and selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products depend on the vanadium content but are independent of the catalyst preparation method. Different oxidants, such as O2 and N2O, affect the conversion and selectivity of n-butane. Pulse experiments indicate that prereduced surfaces are not effective in producing olefins, whereas selective catalysts are achieved with preoxidized surfaces.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本研究关注n-丁烷在镁氧化物支持的钒氧化物催化剂上的氧化脱氢反应。催化剂通过两种湿浸渍方法制备。催化活性和选择性取决于钒含量，但与催化剂制备方法无关。不同的氧化剂，如氧气和N2O，影响n-丁烷的转化率和选择性。脉冲实验表明，还原表面在生产烯烃方面效果不佳，而预氧化表面可实现选择性催化剂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
