Dehydrogenation of propane over a silica-supported
vanadium oxide catalyst
Isao Takahara*, Masahiro Saito, Megumu Inaba, and Kazuhisa Murata
Energy Technology Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 16-1 Onogawa, Tsukuba-shi,
Ibaraki-ken, 305-8569, Japan
Received 14 January 2005; accepted 6 April 2005
The dehydrogenation of propane over a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst was investigated at 823 K under atmospheric
pressure in the presence/absence of CO2. The yield of propene and the selectivity to propene were higher in the dehydrogenation in
the presence of CO2 than those in the dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2. On the other hand, the yield of aromatics and the
selectivity to aromatics were much higher in the dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2 than those in the dehydrogenation in the
presence of CO2. TPR measurements, NH3 desorption studies and in-situ UV–vis studies on the catalyst were also performed to
elucidate the eﬀects of CO2 on the behavior of the vanadium oxide in the catalyst during the dehydrogenation of propane.
KEY WORDS: dehydrogenation; propane; propene; vanadium oxide catalyst; silica.
1. Introduction
From environmental points of view, the authors have
focused attention on gallium oxide-based catalysts for
developing high performance catalysts not containing
chromium for the dehydrogenation of propane. The
authors recently reported that a silica-supported gallium
oxide catalyst was moderately active and highly selective
to propene in the dehydrogenation of propane at tem-
peratures ranging from 793 K to 853 K [1,2].
In the present study, the dehydrogenation of propane
over a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst was
investigated. First, the catalytic performance of a silica-
supported vanadium oxide catalyst for the dehydroge-
nation of propane at 823 K was examined in the pres-
ence/absence of CO2. Then, the reduction of the
vanadium oxide catalyst in a stream of H2 was investi-
gated. NH3 desorption studies on the acid sites on the
catalyst and in-situ UV–vis studies on the vanadium
species on the catalyst were also performed. Further-
more, the eﬀects of CO2 on the behavior of the vana-
dium oxide in the catalyst during the dehydrogenation
of propane were discussed on the basis of the experi-
mental ﬁndings.
2. Experimental
A silica-supported vanadium oxide was prepared by
an impregnation method using ammonium vanadate
(V). CARiACT Q-6 supplied by Fuji Silysia Chemical
Ltd. was used for a silica support. An aqueous solution
of ammonium vanadate was added to the silica. Then,
the slurry was dried overnight at 383 K, and calcined at
923 K for 2 h. The content of vanadium oxide in the
catalyst was 5 wt%. The molar content of vanadium
oxide in the catalyst was 1.7 mol%. The surface area of
the catalyst was 350 m2/g.
The dehydrogenation of propane was carried out
using a ﬁxed bed ﬂow reactor. The catalyst ﬁxed in a
reactor was treated with a co-feed gas (Ar or CO2)
before starting the reaction. Then, the dehydrogenation
of propane was performed in the presence of Ar or CO2
under atmospheric pressure at 823 K. The reaction
products were analyzed by a FID gas chromatograph
and by a TCD gas chromatograph directly connected to
the reactor. The products in the dehydrogenation of
propane in the absence of CO2 were H2, methane, eth-
ane, ethene, propene, benzene, toluene, trace amounts of
other aromatic hydrocarbons, C4 and C5 hydrocarbons.
In the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2, CO was
also formed in addition to the products in the dehy-
drogenation in the absence of CO2. The yield of each
product and the selectivity to each product were deﬁned
as the conversion of propane to the product and the
yield of the product divided by the total conversion of
propane, respectively.
The amount of carbonaceous deposits on the post-
reaction catalyst was measured by TG/DTA.
Temperature
programming
reduction
(TPR)
measurements for the catalyst were carried out using a
thermal conductivity detector in a stream of a gas mix-
ture of H2 (10%) and Ar (90%) in the temperature range
from 323 to 923 K under the following operation con-
ditions: 0.1 MPa, ﬂow rate of H2/Ar=20 mL/min,
heating rate=1 K/min. The reduction of the catalyst in
* To whom correspondence should be addressed.
E-mail: i.takahara@aist.go.jp
Catalysis Letters Vol. 102, Nos. 3–4, August 2005 ( 2005)
201
DOI: 10.1007/s10562-005-5856-4
1011-372X/05/0800–0201/0  2005 Springer Science
+Business Media, Inc.
ﬂowing H2 at 823 K was also carried using a ﬂow
reactor connected to a mass spectrometer (Microvision
from Leda-Mass Ltd.). The details of the reduction
procedure are described elsewhere [2].
X-ray diﬀraction (XRD) measurements were also
carried out to analyze the phases present in the catalyst.
However, only a broad peak assigned to amorphous
SiO2 was detected for the catalyst samples used in the
present study, suggesting that vanadium oxide could be
highly dispersed on the silica.
In order to characterize the acid sites on the catalyst
surface, the desorption of NH3 pulsed on the catalyst at
823 K was carried out using a pulse reaction apparatus
directly connected to the mass spectrometer. The details
of the NH3 desorption procedure are described else-
where [2].
In-situ UV–vis spectroscopic studies on the vana-
dium species in the catalyst were performed using a
UV/VIS/NIR spectrometer (V-570 from JASCO Corp.)
equipped with a spectrophotometer and a diﬀuse
reﬂectance cell supplied from JASCO Corp. The pow-
der sample placed in the cell was treated in a stream of
Ar, H2 or CO2 at 823 K, and the spectra were taken in
the range of 200–800 nm with a reference of BaSO4 at
603 K, because the spectra taken at higher tempera-
tures were not clear.
3. Results and discussion
Figure 1 shows the yields of propene (Yield of C3H6)
and of aromatics such as benzene, toluene and so on
(Yield of Arom.), and the selectivities to propene (Sel. to
C3H6) and to aromatics (Sel. to Arom.) in the dehy-
drogenation of propane in the presence of Ar or CO2
over a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst as a
function of time on stream. The yield of propene and the
selectivity to propene in the dehydrogenation over the
vanadium oxide catalyst in the presence of CO2 were
higher than those in the absence of CO2. On the other
hand, the yield of aromatics and the selectivity to aro-
matics in the dehydrogenation over the vanadium oxide
catalyst in the presence of CO2 was much lower than
those in the absence of CO2. And the conversion of
propane in the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2
was a little lower than that in the absence of CO2. These
ﬁndings suggest that the dehydrogenation over the
vanadium oxide catalyst would be slightly inhibited by
CO2 and that CO2 would suppress the aromatization of
propene to lead to a higher yield of propene and a higher
selectivity to propene in the dehydrogenation in the
presence of CO2 than in the dehydrogenation in the
absence of CO2. In the case of the dehydrogenation in
the absence of CO2, the pre-treatment of the catalyst
with H2 increased the yield of aromatics and the selec-
tivity to aromatics in the dehydrogenation of propane at
1–3 h of time on stream, whereas it reduced the yield of
propene and the selectivity to propene and hardly
altered the conversion of propane. In the case of the
dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2, the pre-treat-
ment of the catalyst with H2 hardly altered the yields of
aromatics and propene and the selectivities to aromatics
and to propene in the dehydrogenation. These ﬁndings
suggest that the pre-treatment of the catalyst with H2
could increase the number of the acid sites on the cat-
alyst surface. This suggestion could also explain the
increase in the yield of aromatics with increasing time on
stream during the dehydrogenation in the absence of
CO2 over the catalyst not pre-treated in H2. Further-
more, it is also suggested that CO2 could reduce the
number of acid sites on the catalyst surface.
In addition, the dehydrogenation of propane over
bulk V2O5 in the presence/absence of CO2 was also
carried out. The initial yield of aromatics in the dehy-
drogenation in the absence of CO2 was three times
higher than that in the dehydrogenation in the presence
of CO2. The activity of bulk V2O5 rapidly decreased
with time on stream in the dehydrogenation in the
absence of CO2, whereas it slowly decreased with time
on stream in the dehydrogenation in the presence of
CO2. These ﬁndings suggest that the catalytic properties
of vanadium oxide in the silica-supported vanadium
oxide catalyst should be almost the same as that of bulk
Figure 1. Yields of propene (d, m, n, r) and aromatics (s, n, h, e),
and the selectivities to propene (d, m, n, r) and to aromatics (s, n,
h, e) in the dehydrogenation of propane (C3H8) over a silica-
supported vanadium oxide catalyst not pre-treated (d, s, r, e) or
over a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst pre-treated in H2 for
2 h (m, n, n, h) in the presence of Ar (d, s, m, n) or in the presence
of CO2 (n, h, r, e) as a function of time on stream. Reaction
conditions: 823 K; 0.1 MPa; C3H8 concentration in the feed (C3H8/
Ar)=10%, W/F=45 g-cat/(mmol-C3H8/min).
I. Takahara et al./Dehydrogenation of propane over a vanadium oxide catalyst
202
V2O5, and that the acid sites should be formed on
vanadium oxide in the catalyst.
The amount of carbonaceous deposits on the catalyst
during the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 was
much smaller than that during the dehydrogenation in
the absence of CO2, as shown in ﬁgure 2. This ﬁnding
might be related to the ﬁnding described above that the
yield of aromatics and the selectivity to aromatics in the
dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 was much lower
than those in the absence of CO2. Furthermore, all
ﬁndings described above suggest that the state of the
vanadium oxide in the catalyst in the dehydrogenation
in the presence of CO2 should be much diﬀerent from
that in the dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2.
Accordingly, the characterization of the vanadium oxide
in the catalyst in the presence/absence of CO2 must be
necessary.
TPR measurements for the fresh catalyst and for the
catalyst treated with CO2 after the ﬁrst TPR measure-
ment, the results of which are shown in ﬁgure 3, suggest
that vanadium oxide in the catalyst could be reduced at
temperatures ranging from 723 to 873 K and that a part
of the reduced vanadium oxide in the catalyst could be
re-oxidized with CO2 at 823 K. The peak area for the
catalyst treated with CO2 after the ﬁrst TPR measure-
ment was about 30% of that for the fresh catalyst. The
results of the reduction experiments in a stream of H2 at
823 K for the fresh catalyst and for the catalyst treated
with CO2 at 823 K after the ﬁrst reduction are shown in
Figure 4. In addition, the oxidation of reduced vana-
dium oxide in the catalyst with CO2 was carried out.
When a small amount of CO2 was pulsed at 823 K to
the catalyst reduced at 823 K with H2, some amount of
CO was detected in an eﬄuent gas. These ﬁndings
strongly supports the suggestion described above.
Desorption measurements of NH3 pulsed to the cat-
alyst were carried out at 823 K in order to clarify
the eﬀects of pre-treatment of the catalyst with H2 and
of re-treatment of the catalyst with CO2 after the ﬁrst
reduction on the number of the acid sites on the catalyst
at the temperature of the dehydrogenation. The results
of the measurements are shown in ﬁgure 5. The pre-
treatment of the catalyst with H2 at 823 K increased the
retention time of NH3 on the vanadium oxide catalyst.
This ﬁnding strongly supports the suggestion previously
described that the pre-treatment of the vanadium oxide
catalyst with H2 could increase the number of acid sites
on the catalyst. On the other hand, the retention time of
NH3 on the catalyst re-treated with CO2 after the ﬁrst
reduction was almost the same as that on the catalyst
treated in Ar, suggesting that CO2 could reduce the
Figure 2. Amount of carbonaceous deposits on a silica-supported
vanadium oxide catalyst during the dehydrogenation of propane for
7 h in the presence of Ar (a) or in the presence of CO2 (b). Reaction
conditions were the same as shown in ﬁgure 1.
Figure 3. TPR proﬁles of a fresh silica-supported vanadium oxide
catalyst (a) and of a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst treated
with CO2 at 823 K for 1 h after the ﬁrst reduction (b) in a stream of a
gas mixture of H2 (10%) and Ar (90%) in the temperature range from
323 to 923 K. Operation conditions: 0.1 MPa; H2/Ar=1/9; ﬂow rate
of H2/Ar=20 mL/min; heating rate=10 K/min.
Figure 4. A signal of m/e=18 as a function of time on stream in H2
during the reduction of a fresh silica-supported vanadium oxide
catalyst (a) or of a silica-supported vanadium oxide catalyst treated
with CO2 at 823 K for 1 h after the ﬁrst reduction (b) at 823 K after
raising the catalyst temperature up to 823 K in a stream of He.
Operating conditions: 0.1 MPa,; the ﬂow rate of H2 (He)=60 ml/min;
the weight of sample=0.2 g.
I. Takahara et al./Dehydrogenation of propane over a vanadium oxide catalyst
203
number of the acid sites on the catalyst, as previously
described.
Figure 6 shows in situ UV–vis spectra of the catalyst
treated at 823 K under various gas compositions. In the
case of the catalyst treated at 823 K in Ar, UV–vis
absorption bands located below 400 nm, which should
be assigned to the oxygen ligand to metal charge transfer
bands of V5+ [3,4], were observed. On the other hand, in
the case of the catalyst treated at 823 K in H2/Ar, a UV–
vis absorption bands above 400 nm, which should be
assigned to a week d-d transition of V4+/V3+ [3], were
observed and UV–vis absorption bands below 400 nm
decreased. In the case of the catalyst treated at 823 K
with CO2 after the ﬁrst reduction, UV–vis absorption
bands below 400 nm increased and UV–vis absorption
bands above 400 nm decreased. These ﬁndings suggest
that the vanadium on the surface of vanadium oxide in
the catalyst could be V4+/V3+ in H2 and in the dehy-
drogenation in the absence of CO2, whereas that could
be V5+ in the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2
by the oxidizing action of CO2.
Although DRIFTS measurements on the catalyst
were made in order to obtain some useful information
about acid sites on reduced vanadium oxide in the cat-
alyst, the band which should be assigned to O–H bond
of V–O–H could not be clearly detected owing mainly to
the overlapping with O–H bond of Si–OH groups.
However, the experimental ﬁndings in the present study
are very similar to those in our previous study on the
dehydrogenation of propane over a silica-supported
gallium oxide catalyst. Accordingly, it is suggested that
the acid sites on vanadium oxide would be V–O–H sites
adjacent to V4+/V3+ sites like Ga–O–H sites adjacent to
Gad sites which was suggested in our previous study [2].
In summary, the ﬁndings in the present study suggest
that the vanadium in the silica-supported vanadium
oxide catalyst could be reduced to V4+/V3+ in the
dehydrogenation of propane in the absence of CO2 to
lead to the formation of acid sites on the surface of the
vanadium oxide. The acid sites formed could produce a
higher yield of aromatics and a larger amount of car-
bonaceous deposits. The present ﬁndings also suggest
that the vanadium on the surface of vanadium oxide in
the dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of CO2
could be V5+ which could not lead to the formation of
acid sites but result in a higher yield of propene and a
smaller amount of carbonaceous deposits.
4. Conclusions
1. The dehydrogenation of propane over a silica-sup-
ported vanadium oxide catalyst was investigated at
823 K in the presence/absence of CO2. The yield of
propene and the selectivity to propene were higher in
the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 than
those in the dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2.
On the other hand, the yield of aromatics and the
selectivity to aromatics were much higher in the
dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2 than those in
the dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2. In
Figure 5. A signal of m/e=16 in the eﬄuent gas after a small amount
of NH3 was pulsed at 823 K over the vanadium oxide catalyst pre-
treated in Ar at 823 K for 1 h (a), the vanadium oxide catalyst pre-
treated in H2 at 823 K for 2 h (b) or the vanadium oxide catalyst treated
with CO2 at 823 K for 1 h after the ﬁrst pre-treatment in H2 at 823 K
for 2 h (c) as a function of time on stream in Ar (a, c) or in H2 (b).
Operating conditions: 0.1 MPa; temperature of the sample=823 K;
ﬂow rate of Ar or H2=20 ml/min; NH3/Ar=1/9 (mol/mol).
Figure 6. In-situ UV–vis diﬀuse reﬂectance spectrum at 603 K of the
vanadium oxide catalyst pre-treated in Ar at 823 K for 1 h (a), the
vanadium oxide catalyst pre-treated in H2/Ar at 823 K for 2 h (b) or
the vanadium oxide catalyst treated with CO2 at 823 K for 1 h after
the ﬁrst pre-treatment in H2 at 823 K for 2 h (c). Operation conditions:
0.1 MPa; 603 K; ﬂow rate of Ar, H2/Ar or CO2=60 ml/min;
H2/Ar=1/9 (mol/mol).
I. Takahara et al./Dehydrogenation of propane over a vanadium oxide catalyst
204
addition, the amount of carbonaceous deposits on
the catalyst during the dehydrogenation in the pres-
ence of CO2 was smaller than that during the dehy-
drogenation in the absence of CO2.
2. The vanadium oxide in the catalyst could be reduced
at temperatures ranging from 723 to 873 K and a
part of the reduced vanadium oxide in the catalyst
could be re-oxidized with CO2 at 823 K.
3. NH3 desorption studies on the vanadium oxide cat-
alyst suggest that the pre-treatment of the vanadium
oxide catalyst with H2 could increase the number of
acid sites on the catalyst and that CO2 could reduce
the number of the acid sites on the catalyst.
4. UV–vis studies on the vanadium oxide in the catalyst
suggest that the vanadium on the surface of vana-
dium oxide in the catalyst could be V4+/V3+ in H2
and in the dehydrogenation in the absence of CO2,
whereas that could be V5+ in the dehydrogenation in
the presence of CO2 by the oxidizing action of CO2.
5. The ﬁndings in the present study suggest that the
vanadium in the silica-supported vanadium oxide
catalyst could be reduced to V4+/V3+ in the dehy-
drogenation of propane in the absence of CO2 to lead
to the formation of acid sites on the surface of the
vanadium oxide. The acid sites formed could produce
a higher yield of aromatics and a larger amount of
carbonaceous deposits. It is also suggested that the
vanadium on the surface of vanadium oxide in the
dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of CO2
could be V5+ which could not lead to the formation
of acid sites but result in a higher yield of propene
and a smaller amount of carbonaceous deposits.
References
[1] M. Saito, S. Watanabe, I. Takahara, K. Murata and M. Inaba,
Catal. Lett. 89 (2003) 213.
[2] I. Takahara, M. Saito, M. Inaba and K. Murata, ibid 96 (2004) 29.
[3] X. Gao, M.A. Banares and I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 188 (1999) 325.
[4] X. Gao, J.-M. Jehng and I.E. Wachs, ibid 209 (2002) 43.
I. Takahara et al./Dehydrogenation of propane over a vanadium oxide catalyst
205
