Applications of High Sensitivity-Low Energy Ion Scattering (HS-LEIS) in
heterogeneous catalysis
H.R.J. ter Veen a,1, T. Kim b, I.E. Wachs b, H.H. Brongersma a,*
a Calipso BV, P.O. Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands
b Operando Molecular Spectroscopy & Catalysis Laboratory, Chemical Engineering Department, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA 18015, USA
1. Introduction
In heterogeneous catalysis, reactions take place at the outer-
most atomic layer of solid catalysts. Therefore, the availability of a
technique that analyzes the chemical composition of this layer is of
crucial importance in the fundamental study of catalysis as well as
in the optimization of industrial catalysts. Low Energy Ion
Scattering is a unique tool that provides quantitative composi-
tional information about the outermost atomic layer of a material.
For many years, important contributions to the application of LEIS
to catalytic materials have been made by the groups of Cocke,
Hercules and Houalla, Taglauer and Kno
¨zinger, Hoﬂund, Gru
¨nert
and Brongersma. See reviews [1–3] and other references to the
literature [4–7]. A problem of LEIS is the damage to the samples by
the bombarding ions. The development of High Sensitivity-LEIS has
enabled the use of such low ion doses that the damage is negligible,
while the mass resolution has been improved. This has given a new
impulse to the application to catalysts.
HS-LEIS compares favorably to XPS (ESCA) since the informa-
tion depth for XPS is several nanometers (20 layers) whereas HS-
LEIS is speciﬁc for the outermost atomic layer. HS-LEIS also
compares favorably to SIMS, since quantiﬁcation of HS-LEIS results
is straightforward.
The principle behind the LEIS technique is depicted in Fig. 1. A
noble gas ion with a known primary energy Ei is aimed at the
surface. The incident ion beam is perpendicular to the surface.
There, this ion collides with a surface atom in a binary collision. The
energy of the backscattered ion (Ef) is determined by the classic
laws of mechanics (conservation of momentum and conservation
of energy) and is given by
Ef ¼ k2
m2
m1
;u


Ei
(1)
In this, m1 and m2 are the masses of the primary ion and
scattering surface atom, respectively, while u is the back scattering
angle (determined by the geometry of the instrument). In the HS-
LEIS experiment, u, m1 and Ei are known and Ef is measured with a
dedicated energy analyzer. The factor k2 is a known function of m2/
m1 and u. The k2 function increases monotonously from 0 for m2/
m1 = 1 to 1 for m2/m1 ! 1 (if u > 908). Thus, the mass of the
scattering surface atom can be calculated from Eq. (1). Only surface
atoms with a mass higher than the mass of the primary ion can be
measured since the primary ion will scatter in the forward
direction if it scatters from very light atoms. In the derivation of
Eq. (1) it has been assumed that the target atom is at rest. It has
been shown before that, although the vibrational energy of the
surface atoms is orders of magnitude smaller than the primary
energy of the ion, Doppler broadening will give a detectable
increase in the peakwidth [8].
The
HS-LEIS
instrument
is
very
sensitive
and
typically
exhibits detection limits on the order of several ppm for high
Catalysis Today 140 (2009) 197–201
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Article history:
Available online 26 November 2008
Keywords:
High Sensitivity-Low Energy Ion Scattering
(HS-LEIS)
Heterogeneous catalysis
Surface analysis
MoO3/TiO2 catalyst
A B S T R A C T
High Sensitivity-Low Energy Ion Scattering (HS-LEIS) is a sensitive analysis technique for the outermost
atomic layer of a sample. On a heterogeneous catalyst, this outermost atomic layer is the precise location
where the catalytic processes take place. Based on the principles of classical mechanics, HS-LEIS
determines the mass of surface atoms by measuring the energy from ions that are scattered from the
surface. Examples with pure oxides, mixed oxides and supported metal oxide catalyst samples are
presented to demonstrate the sensitivity, the ease of quantiﬁcation, the availability of information about
layers immediately beneath the surface (relevant for the dispersion of the active catalytic component on
the surface of the catalyst) as well as the potential for High Throughput Experimentation (HTE) due to the
short analysis times.
 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: H.Brongersma@Calipso.nl (H.H. Brongersma).
1 Present address: Tascon GmbH, Heisenbergstr. 15, 48149 Mu
¨ nster, Germany.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Catalysis Today
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cattod
0920-5861/$ – see front matter  2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2008.10.012
values of m2/m1, while mass resolution is good for low values of
m2/m1. In many cases, the HS-LEIS spectra are recorded with
different primary ions since the HS-LEIS analyst is free to choose
the primary ion. The spectra with 4He+ ions will give the best
information in terms of mass resolution and sensitivity for lighter
surface atoms. In general, elements with masses in the range from
12 to 60 amu can be positively identiﬁed with 4He+. It is perfectly
possible to use
4He+ ions for higher masses, but element
identiﬁcation will be problematic. For example, if it is known
that a sample contains only Pt, Co and alumina then analysis with
4He+ ions will be sufﬁcient, since in that case higher mass
resolution is not required. However, when a positive identiﬁcation
for unknown heavier surface atoms is needed, the mass resolution
can be improved by using 20Ne+ ions.
A typical HS-LEIS spectrum is shown in Fig. 2. The sample is a
mixed oxide catalyst, cleaned with atomic oxygen (to remove
hydrocarbons from exposure to atmosphere) prior to analysis. The
surface is analyzed with 3 keV 4He+ ions (Fig. 2a). Peaks for oxygen
(m = 16 amu), aluminum (27 amu) and vanadium (51 amu) can be
recognized in the spectrum, as well as a peak at 2500 eV. This high
energy peak is due to elements that are too heavy to separate with
4He+. By switching to 3 keV 20Ne+ ions (Fig. 2b) the elements in this
peak can be separated and are identiﬁed as molybdenum (96 amu)
and tellurium (118 amu). If needed, 40Ar+ ions can be used to
discriminate between even heavier surface atoms. Similarly, 3He+
ions are preferred for the analysis of very light elements
(<20 amu).
2. Sensitivity and sputter damage
HS-LEIS is orders of magnitude more sensitive than conven-
tional LEIS. In HS-LEIS, the scattered ions are collected from all
azimuth angles and the HS-LEIS analyzer is imaging the ions onto a
position sensitive detector. The latter makes it possible to
simultaneously detect scattered ions of different energies. As a
result, the ratio of the LEIS signal to the primary ion current is
orders of magnitude higher in HS-LEIS. As a consequence of this
enormous increase in sensitivity it is possible to perform Static
LEIS. Good LEIS spectra are obtained while less than 0.5% of a
monolayer is sputtered from the sample surface. An example of
Static LEIS spectra of a dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst
containing a two-dimensional monolayer of surface MoOx species
on the TiO2 support is shown in Fig. 3 together with the reference
spectra of pure MoO3 and TiO2 samples [9]. For each of the spectra
only 0.2% of a monolayer was sputtered from the surface. This is
generally considered to be well below the static limit.
3. Quantiﬁcation
As long as the experimental conditions are chosen with care (Ei
cannot be too low, u is large and no grazing angles are used), for a
given primary ion, primary ion energy and scattering surface atom,
the HS-LEIS peak is proportional to the amount of scattering
surface atoms [3]. This means that quantiﬁcation is straightfor-
ward. Backgrounds are subtracted from the peaks, the peaks are
integrated and peak areas are proportional to the surface fraction
of the atoms. Thus, when a pure reference of the element is
analyzed, peak areas from the unknown samples can be expressed
Fig. 1. Schematic representation of the ion scattering process. The energy, Ei, and
mass m1 of the primary ion are controlled in the experiment. The scattering angle, u,
is ﬁxed for the instrument geometry. The ﬁnal energy, Ef, is measured, which yields
the mass of the surface atom, m2.
Fig. 2. HS-LEIS spectra of a mixed oxide catalyst. In the 3 keV 4He+ spectrum of (a),
the peaks of O, Al and V can be identiﬁed. The last peak consists of contributions
from Mo and Te that cannot be separated with 3 keV 4He+ ions. In the 3 keV 20Ne+
spectrum of (b), these peaks are clearly separated.
Fig. 3. Static HS-LEIS spectra (3 keV 4He+) of dehydrated supported 5.3% MoO3/TiO2
catalyst and pure MoO3 and TiO2 references. During the experiment approximately
0.2% of a monolayer is sputtered from the sample surface.
H.R.J. ter Veen et al. / Catalysis Today 140 (2009) 197–201
198
as fractions of the peak area for the pure element yielding surface
fractions for the unknown samples.
Another typical procedure makes use of a calibration plot. The
area of one peak is plotted as a function of the area of another peak
for a number of samples. If there are no other elements to consider
and if Vegard’s law holds (i.e., there is no signiﬁcant excess volume
of mixing), these data points will form a straight line. The
calibration plot for the Static LEIS spectra from Fig. 3 is shown in
Fig. 4. From the spectrum and the references, it is determined that
the Mo/Ti ratio for the dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst
surface is 44/56. This surface composition is consistent with the
surface Mo density of 4.6 Mo atoms/nm2 for the supported MoO3/
TiO2 catalyst relative to 8 Mo atoms/nm2 for pure MoO3 [9,10]. The
HS-LEIS detection of exposed TiOx sites from the underlying TiO2
support also reﬂects the generally lower surface density of
supported metal oxide phases at monolayer coverage relative to
that found in their corresponding unsupported pure oxides.
Fig. 4 is an example of a calibration plot, containing data points
for the dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst sample and two
pure references. In many cases, it is not necessary to use pure
reference samples. A set of unknowns will be sufﬁcient to obtain
surface fractions of the various elements. If the experiment from
Fig. 4 would have been performed on a set of supported MoO3/TiO2
catalysts with varying amounts of Mo on the surface, the (Mo peak
area, Ti peak area) data points for all the samples would have been
on the same straight line. By ﬁtting the line for the supported
MoO3/TiO2 catalyst and extrapolating to the x- and y-axis, the
sensitivity factors can be found. Thus, as long as the set of samples
is large enough and the surface concentrations vary sufﬁciently, so
that a good ﬁt can be obtained, pure reference samples are not
needed.
The surface roughness has a small inﬂuence on the HS-LEIS
spectra [11]. In Fig. 5a, the 4.5 keV 4He+ spectrum for highly
dispersed silica powder is compared to the spectrum of a 100 nm
thick SiO2 layer on a Si wafer. In a similar way, in Fig. 5b, the 4.5 keV
4He+ spectrum for highly dispersed g-alumina powder is compared
to the spectrum of a 100 nm thick Al2O3 layer on a Si wafer. All
samples were treated with atomic oxygen, prior to analysis. It can
be seen that the peak is slightly lower for the powder samples. This
is due to the fact that a small part of the surface atoms cannot be
seen by the analyzer due to shadowing effects from other powder
particles. At the same time, the background on the low energy side
of the peak is slightly higher for the powder samples. This
background is due to scattering from deeper lying atoms (see
below). The surface atoms that are shadowed by other powder
particles are now contributing as deeper lying atoms, thereby
raising the background at the low energy side of the peak. It
is worth mentioning that the LEIS spectra for a-alumina and
g-alumina also differ signiﬁcantly because of the different surface
termination [12]. In the present case, it is not clear what the
structure of the Al2O3 layer on Si is.
It is clear that there is no effect of surface roughness on the peak
position and that the effect of the surface roughness on the peak area
here is of the order of 10–20%. Given that quantiﬁcation errors of that
magnitude(5–25%)aregenerallyacceptedinXPS[13],thisshouldnot
beconsideredaproblem.Inaddition,allpeakswithinaLEISspectrum
are affected in the same way. Therefore, peak area ratios are not
affected by surface roughness. Also, samples with similar topology
have similar effects on the spectra. Therefore, when quantifying LEIS
results, one should strive to use reference samples with a surface
roughness similar to the sample being quantiﬁed to minimize the
inﬂuence of surface roughness. Usually, this is not a problem.
4. Information about deeper layers and dispersion
of active material
HS-LEIS is surface sensitive since noble gas ions are used as
primary ions that are neutralized when they enter the solid. The
resulting neutral noble gas atoms may still scatter from deeper
layers and leave the sample but they are not detected since the
analyzer only detects ions.
In some cases, a fraction of these scattered noble gas atoms can
be re-ionized when they leave the surface. Since these particles
have lost energy while traveling through the material, these re-
ionized particles show up in the spectrum at the low energy side of
the peak. When these particles have scattered from atoms close to
the surface, only a small amount of energy is lost. These atoms are
represented in the spectrum by the signal close to the peak. Deeper
lying atoms are represented in the spectrum by a signal at much
lower energies than the peak energy. If the scattering atoms are
Fig. 4. Calibration plot for the spectra from Fig. 3. The Mo/Ti ratio for the supported
MoO3/TiO2 catalyst sample was 44/56.
Fig. 5. Effect of surface roughness on 4.5 keV 4He+ HS-LEIS spectra. (a) Comparison
between highly dispersed SiO2 powder and SiO2 on a Si wafer and (b) comparison
between highly dispersed g-Al2O3 powder and Al2O3 on a Si wafer.
H.R.J. ter Veen et al. / Catalysis Today 140 (2009) 197–201
199
present in a continuous layer, this phenomenon manifests itself as
a continuous tail on the low energy side of the peak. The shape of
this tail gives information about the distribution of the studied
element over deeper layers. On ﬂat surfaces (e.g. samples from
microelectronics industry) one typically obtains information about
layers up to a depth of 10 nm. For supported catalysts or other
highly disperse samples, the useful information depth is much
lower. This is not due to the technique, but due to the topology of
the sample, where at a depth of a few nanometers the composition
will be equal to the bulk composition. However, this information is
very useful in the determination of the dispersion of an active
catalytic component on the surface of the catalyst, since it yields
quantitative
information
about
the
amounts
of
the
active
component in the outermost atomic layer and in the second layer.
The HS-LEIS Mo peak region in the 3 keV 4He+ spectra of the
pure MoO3 powder and the dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2
catalyst are presented in Fig. 6a and b, respectively. The surface
peak is separated from the background through a ﬁtting procedure.
The ratio of background to surface peak is clearly lower for the
dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst. For the pure MoO3
powder, the Mo is distributed over all layers that give rise to a high
background. For the dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst, the
Mo on the catalyst sample is mainly in the outermost atomic layer
of the sample. There is very little Mo in deeper layers and,
therefore, the background is very low. A comparison of the ratios of
background height to peak area for the two samples results in an
amount of Mo in the second layer of 26% (where this value is 100%
for MoO3 powder). The partial clustering of the surface MoOx
species may be related to the presence of some residual moisture
since crystalline MoO3 nanoparticles are absent in this sample [9].
5. Other applications
The high surface sensitivity of HS-LEIS has been used to obtain
detailed information on the catalytic processes themselves. From
the signal reductions upon poisoning by coke or sulfur, information
was obtained on the sites that were poisoned [14,15]. Guliants
et al. [16] used such signal reductions by various probe molecules
to obtain insight in the active sites on complex catalysts
(VNbMoTeOx) used for the selective oxidation of propane to
acrylic acid.
The sensitivity of HS-LEIS is high enough to obtain good quality
spectra in a short time. In general, data acquisition times are of the
order of 10 min/spectrum. However, due to the fast electronics for
signal processing, shorter analysis times can be achieved with
relative ease. The 3 keV 4He+ spectrum of the same dehydrated
supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst is shown in Fig. 7 with an
acquisition time of 75 s. It would be possible to record 4He+ and
20Ne+ spectra for an array of 24 samples in 2 h. Currently, a sample
stage with the ability to hold 48 samples is under commercial
development. The samples are treated simultaneously in a
pretreatment chamber and enter the HS-LEIS analysis chamber
without exposure to atmosphere. This makes HS-LEIS an excellent
candidate for High Throughput Experimentation (HTE) surface
analysis of heterogeneous catalysts.
6. Conclusions
High Sensitivity-Low Energy Ion Scattering (HS-LEIS) is an
attractive technique for the surface analysis of heterogeneous
catalysts. It is very surface speciﬁc and samples the outermost
atomic layer. It is ﬂexible since the operator has a choice of primary
ions and primary ion energies. This makes it possible to optimize
for sensitivity as well as speciﬁcity for the different elements. In
this way, all elements from C and higher can be analyzed. The HS-
LEIS measurement can be operated in a Static mode, essentially
non-destructive, due to the high sensitivity of the analyzer. Sputter
damage below 0.5% of a monolayer is routinely achieved while the
quality of the spectra is more than sufﬁcient. HS-LEIS yields
quantitative information, not only in terms of elemental composi-
tion of the outermost atomic layer, but also in terms of the
distribution of elements in the layers immediately beneath the
outermost atomic layer.
Acknowledgements
The authors wish to thank Prof. Dr. Vadim Guliants (Chemical
Engineering Department, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH,
USA) for providing the mixed oxide catalyst sample and Drs. Ally
Fig. 6. Comparison of the Mo peak (3 keV 4He+ spectra) for (a) pure MoO3 and (b)
dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst. The ratio of the background height to
peak area is much lower for the supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst than for the bulk
MoO3 powder indicating little Mo in the second atomic layer of the catalyst. A
quantitative comparison showed that the second layer contains 26% Mo for the
supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst relative to 100% Mo for MoO3.
Fig. 7. HS-LEIS spectrum of the dehydrated supported MoO3/TiO2 catalyst (3 keV
4He+) acquired in 75 s.
H.R.J. ter Veen et al. / Catalysis Today 140 (2009) 197–201
200
Chan and Simon Bare (UOP, Des Plaines, IL, USA) for providing the
Al2O3/Si and SiO2/Si samples. The Lehigh contribution was
supported by the U.S. Department of Energy-Basic Energy Sciences
grant DE-FG02-93ER-14350.
References
[1] B.A. Horrell, D.L. Cocke, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 29 (1987) 447.
[2] H.H. Brongersma, G.C. van Leerdam, in: H.H. Brongersma, R.A. van Santen (Eds.),
Fundamental Aspects of Heterogeneous Catalysis Studied by Particle Beams,
Plenum Press, 1991,, p. 283, NATO ASI B 265.
[3] H.H. Brongersma, M. Draxler, M. de Ridder, P. Bauer, Surf. Sci. Rep. 62 (2007) 63.
[4] S. Labich, E. Taglauer, H. Kno
¨zinger, Top. Catal. 14 (2001) 153.
[5] S. Rondon, M. Houalla, D.M. Hercules, Surf. Interface Anal. 26 (1998) 329.
[6] L.E. Briand, O.P. Tkachenko, M. Guraya, X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, W. Gru
¨ nert, J. Phys.
Chem. B 108 (2004) 4823.
[7] S.D. Gardner, G.B. Hoﬂund, M.R. Davidson, H.A. Laitinen, D.R. Schryer, B.T.
Upchurch, Langmuir 7 (1991) 2140.
[8] J.B. Theeten, H.H. Brongersma, Rev. Phys. Appl. 11 (1976) 57.
[9] T. Kim, Ph.D. Thesis, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, USA (2007).
[10] H. Hu, I.E. Wachs, S.R. Bare, J. Phys. Chem. 99 (1995) 10897.
[11] W.P.A. Jansen, A. Knoester, A.J.H. Maas, P. Schmit, A. Kyto
¨kivi, A.W. Denier, v.d.
Gon, H.H. Brongersma, Surf. Interface Anal. 36 (2004) 1469.
[12] H.H. Brongersma, P.A.C. Groenen, J.P. Jacobs, Science of ceramic interfaces 2,
in: J. Nowotny (Ed.), Materials Science Monographs, vol. 81, Elsevier, 1994, ,
p. 150.
[13] D.E. Newbury, et al., Advanced Scanning Electron Microscopy and X-ray
Microanalysis, Plenum Press, New York, 1986.
[14] J.M.A. Harmsen, W.P.A. Jansen, J.H.B.J. Hoebink, J.C. Schouten, H.H. Brongersma,
Catal. Lett. 74 (2001) 133.
[15] P.A.J. Ackermans, G.C.R. Krutzen, H.H. Brongersma, Nucl. Instrum. Methods B 45
(1990) 384.
[16] V.V. Guliants, R. Bhandari, A.R. Hughett, S. Bhatt, B.D. Schuler, H.H. Brongersma, A.
Knoester, A.M. Gaffney, S. Han, J. Phys. Chem. B 110 (2006) 6129.
H.R.J. ter Veen et al. / Catalysis Today 140 (2009) 197–201
201
