X-RAY SPECTROMETRY, VOL. 18, 41 (1989) 
Book Review 
X-Ray Absorption. 
Edited by D. C. KONINGSBERGER and R. PRINS 
Published by John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1988; price $77.50, ISBN 0-471-87547-3 
This long awaited book has finally arrived in print. It is 
appropriately subtitled ‘Principles, Applications and 
Techniques of EXAFS, SEXAFS, and XANES’, and 
consists of a collection of chapters written by various 
well-known experts in the respective areas. Almost 
every name on the list of contributors will be familiar to 
anyone in the field, and represents a formidable collec- 
tion of experience. This is reflected in the quality of the 
information contained in the book. Expectations by 
workers in the field were very high for this book, and 
they have mostly been met. 
What was not easily predictable, and which makes 
the book a particularly valuable contribution, is the 
clarity with which it is written. The first two chapters, 
one on EXAFS theory by E. A. Stern and the second on 
XANES theory by P. J. Durham, are both very read- 
able. They not only cover the theory well but also relate 
the various equations and approximations to the physi- 
cal process. All of the applications chapters are reason- 
ably comprehensive and balanced, and are written by 
experts. 
The real heart of the book, however, consists of 
Chapters 3-6 (and Chapter 10 for those interested in 
SEXAFS). These chapters cover the experimental tech- 
niques and data analysis. They are remarkable in that 
they cover the subject with honesty and completeness, 
even pointing out the pitfalls, and, in most cases, how to 
avoid them. It is the best treatment available thus far in 
a single volume. 
My only criticism of the book is that it was so long 
delayed. The information is now somewhat dated in 
that it does not cover the latest developments in data 
acquisition and analysis, especially the rapid curved 
wave and multiple scattering calculations now available. 
In spite of this lack, I would recommend, even insist, 
that anyone considering an x-ray absorption experi- 
ment be familiar with the material in this book. If you 
read only one book on EXAFS, read this one. 
WM. TIMOTHY ELAM 
Washington, DC 
