2.2.2 Common Characterization Techniques for Bimetallic Catalysts
CO and H2 Chemisorption
One of the most important parameters of bimetallic catalysts is the number of active metal sites, which is typically obtained using CO chemisorption. The CO uptake can be measured using many specialized instruments, but as an example, an AMI-200ip (Altamira Instruments) is a viable option. Measurements are performed by loading a known quantity of calcined catalyst into a quartz tube, which is then inserted into the instrument. Catalysts are reduced with a desired H2-containing gas mixture at a specified temperature and then are cooled to room temperature. After cooling, CO is pulsed over the catalyst, and the amount of effluent CO is measured using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). For proper comparison of catalytic activity among different catalysts, the reaction rates must be normalized by the values of CO uptake on each catalyst. CO chemisorption can also be used to estimate metal dispersion by assuming the stoichiometry of M/CO = 1:1 (M = Pt, Ni, Pd, etc.), although the 1:1 ratio is clearly an oversimplification. The dissociative adsorption of H2 is also used to determine the number of active metal sites. However, care must be taken because hydrogen starts to desorb from some bimetallic surfaces at room temperature.
Elemental Analysis
Two techniques are commonly used to quantify the concentrations of elements in supported bimetallic catalysts. Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) is a quantitative technique used to measure the absorption of light by free atoms in the gaseous state. In a typical AAS experiment, an analyte solution is prepared by dissolving a supported catalyst, which is then made into an aerosol with a nebulizer and atomized using an air–acetylene flame. The concentration of metallic ions in the solution is obtained after normalizing the AAS intensity with reference compounds. (169) Another technique, inductively coupled plasma atomic/optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES/OES), is also used to quantify the concentration of trace metals within a bimetallic catalyst. (170) In principle, ICP-AES/OES should have a higher detection limit than AAS for most metals, although it is a more sophisticated and expensive instrument than AAS.
Temperature-Programmed Reduction and Oxidation
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) is used to measure the temperatures at which metals and/or supports are reduced in a catalyst. After calcination, a catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing H2 and heated at a constant ramp rate. As the temperature increases, the catalyst is reduced by the H2 and oxygen is removed from the catalyst in the form of water. With a TCD connected to the effluent stream, the change in concentration of water can be measured to determine the reduction temperature(s). The TPR measurements provide information on the optimal reduction temperature for a catalyst, as well as whether the presence of Pt reduces the reduction temperature of bimetallic catalysts. Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) is similar in theory to TPR, but it is used to measure the amount of coke deposited on the surface of a catalyst. In TPO measurements, a spent catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing O2 and heated at a constant rate. As the temperature increases, the coke on the surface of the catalyst is oxidized by O2 and the carbon is removed from the catalyst in the form of CO2. Using a TCD to monitor the composition of the effluent stream, the area of the CO2 intensity versus temperature curve can be measured to determine the amount of surface carbon. This technique can also be used to determine the strength of interaction between the surface carbon and the supported catalyst because a higher oxidation temperature indicates the coke is more difficult to remove. A related technique, thermogravimetric analysis/differential thermal analysis (TGA/DTA), is also used sometimes to determine the amount of surface carbon through precise weight measurements during TPO of spent catalysts. (171, 172)
Temperature-Programmed Desorption
Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) is used to determine the binding energy of adsorbates on catalysts. In TPD experiments a catalyst is loaded into a reactor fitted with a mass spectrometer. The catalyst can be pretreated under reduction conditions or used in the calcined form. After pretreatment, the catalyst is treated with an adsorbate, which is usually a reactant of interest. The excess adsorbate that is not strongly bound to the catalyst is removed by flowing He. The catalyst is heated linearly at a constant rate, (139) and the effluent products are monitored using a mass spectrometer. By plotting the evolution of the adorbate and its derivatives versus temperature, information can be inferred regarding reaction sites and binding energies of the adsorbate.
Transmission Electron Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) are two primary forms of electron microscopy to characterize the morphology of catalysts. TEM uses transmission of a high-energy electron beam (∼200 keV) through a thin sample to produce an image, whereas SEM rasters a high-energy electron beam (1–40 keV) across the surface of a sample. In TEM, two primary imaging modes are used to investigate particle size and morphology of catalysts. Imaging can be performed in either bright field (BF) or dark field (DF) modes by selecting the direct beam (transmitted through the sample) or diffracted beam (diffracted off of the sample), respectively. BF imaging is used mainly to view catalyst morphology because the contrast between the metal and the support is too low to accurately quantify metallic particle sizes on supported catalysts. DF imaging has much more utility for viewing high atomic number (Z) transition metals supported on low-Z metal oxides. When combined with scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), catalysts can be imaged with very high Z-contrast in high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) imaging. In HAADF imaging, the STEM probe is a focused beam that is rastered across an area of the sample. As the atomic number of the element increases, the scattering angle of the electrons also increases. Therefore, HAADF imaging easily distinguishes between different elements by Z-contrast to create a high-contrast image. (173) Unlike TEM, electrons in SEM are not transmitted through the sample. The most common mode of image capture in SEM is by secondary electrons. An image constructed with secondary electrons contains rich topographic information and has a 3D appearance. SEM is particularly useful for characterizing the morphology and topography of catalyst surfaces. Because the morphology of the catalysts often changes under reaction conditions, further development and applications of environmental TEM and SEM should provide additional means for catalyst characterization.
Recently, there have been advances to correct intrinsic imperfections in the lenses of electron microscopes to improve resolution at very high magnification. These microscopes contain additional lenses to correct for spherical and chromatic aberrations. Spherical aberration corrected TEM (CS-TEM) is capable of distinguishing features up to ∼0.1 nm for the viewing of individual metal atoms. This technique has been used recently to correlate strain effects in Pt–Fe@Pt nanoparticles to activity in the oxygen reduction reaction. (174) In addition to increasing the resolution of TEM, advances have been made in performing TEM under in situ conditions, referred to as environmental TEM (E-TEM). E-TEM has been used to study the behavior of Cu/CeO2 catalysts under reduction and oxidation conditions for several reactions including the water gas shift reaction, methanol synthesis, and methanol reforming. (175)
The chemical composition of a catalyst can be measured using energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) in both TEM and SEM. EDS relies on the principle of X-ray fluorescence to collect compositional data in specific areas of the sample. A fluorescent X-ray is created from atoms that are ionized by the incident electron beam. (176) The fluorescent X-ray has a characteristic energy that is equal to the difference of energy of the outer-shell and inner-shell electrons for a specific element. The peak intensities in EDS measurements can be used to estimate the elemental compositions of the sampled area after proper normalization.
Infrared Spectroscopy
Infrared (IR) spectroscopy is a very useful technique to determine the bonding configuration of reaction intermediates adsorbed on catalysts, as well as to measure the concentrations of reactants and products in the gas or aqueous phase. Several types of IR spectroscopy are used in catalytic research. The most common one is Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, (177, 178) which is used to measure the transmission of infrared radiation through a catalyst pellet or reaction environment. The IR cell is a gas-phase batch reactor that allows the heating and in situ reduction of the catalyst pellet. The rate constant and product distribution can be obtained by measuring gas-phase FTIR as a function of reaction time. In addition, FTIR measurements are often useful in determining the surface termination of bimetallic particles by measuring the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed carbon monoxide (CO). Because the frequencies of adsorbed CO are distinct for different transition metals, a comparison of FTIR spectra between the bimetallic and monometallic catalysts reveals which metals occupy the topmost surfaces of the bimetallic particles. As will be demonstrated later, the surface termination of bimetallic catalysts plays a critical role in the catalytic performance. Two other types of IR spectroscopy are also used in catalyst characterization. Attenuated total reflectance infrared (ATR-IR) measures the attenuation of total internal reflection of the reflected light (179) and is better suited for aqueous-phase environments. Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) measures the reflection of the IR light from the catalyst, making it more surface-sensitive than transmission FTIR. In addition, a related optical technique, ultraviolet–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UV–vis DRS), is a surface-sensitive spectroscopy that is identical in theory to DRIFTS but uses wavelengths of light in the UV–vis range instead of in the IR range. The higher-energy radiation allows UV–vis DRS to probe the band gap of metals to obtain information regarding the oxidation state. (180)
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is a synchrotron-based technique used to characterize the local atomic and electronic structures (181, 182) of a catalyst under in situ conditions relevant to catalytic reactions. XAS measurements are performed by using a monochromatic X-ray beam and collecting the absorption coefficient, μ, as a function of X-ray energy. When the incident energy (hυ) approaches the binding energy Eo of a core level electron, a sharp jump in μ is observed, known as the absorption edge. The region of the scan that begins before the absorption edge and ranges to 50–100 eV above the edge is known as the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) region. (183, 184) The region beginning at 50–100 eV above the edge (after the XANES region) and extending up to 1000 eV past the edge is known as the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) region. (183) A critical feature in the XANES region is the “white line”, caused by a rapid increase in absorption. This feature is present in L-edges, due to the excitation of an electron from the p-orbitals into the higher energy, unoccupied d-states. (185) The main utility of the white line is to characterize the oxidation state of a metal during and after H2 treatment, as well as during catalytic reactions. For example, a reduction in the white line intensity after treatment in H2 indicates that the metal of interest is being reduced. With further analysis of the XANES region, information regarding coordination number can also be calculated. (181, 182)
The EXAFS region contains fine-structure information regarding the local coordination environment. The critical difference between the EXAFS and XANES regions is that in the EXAFS region the ejected photoelectron has sufficient energy to scatter from each of the surrounding atoms and then backscatter to the absorbing atom. (181) Because the ejected photoelectron has wave-particle duality, the outgoing and backscattered electrons can constructively or destructively interfere with each other, making it possible to derive information about the local coordination environment of the catalyst particle. For example, the intensity of the oscillations increases with increasing coordination number, while the frequency of oscillations is inversely dependent on interatomic distances. (182) Quantitative structural information can be obtained after data reduction and mathematical analysis of the EXAFS function, as described elsewhere. (183, 186, 187) Quantitative analysis of EXAFS results are obtained by fitting the reduced data to phases and backscattering amplitudes constructed either from reference compounds or calculations using simulation software such as FEFF. (187-189)
Additional information can be obtained by combining XAS with other techniques for in situ, time-resolved measurements. For example, combined XAS and XRD measurements are applied for investigations of catalysts under reaction conditions. (190) Several authors have further enhanced the combined measurements by adding complementary electronic and vibrational spectroscopy techniques, including ultraviolet-visible (UV–vis), infrared, and Raman, to the well-established XAS–XRD combination. (191, 192) Weckhuysen and others have combined the small- and wide-angle scattering (SAXS and WAXS) techniques with quick-scanning XAS to study in situ processes. (193) More details about some of these advances can be found in a recent review by Bentrup. (194)
2.2.3 Example: Characterization of Supported Pt–Ni Bimetallic Catalysts
Supported Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts have been synthesized using various synthesis methods and characterized with many of the techniques described previously. For example, Figure 5 shows the proposed bimetallic particle in Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 after in situ reduction in H2. (143) The particle size was determined from a combination of TEM and CO chemisorption analysis. The Pt-termination of the catalyst particle was derived by comparing the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed CO on Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 and the corresponding monometallic catalysts. The presence of fully reduced, metallic Pt and Ni was confirmed following the reduction of white line intensities in XANES during H2 reduction. The intimate contact between Pt and Ni atoms was verified by the detection of the Pt–Ni nearest neighbor in the EXAFS measurements. Overall, the Pt-terminated bimetallic particle in Figure 5 is similar to the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure in Figure 3, responsible for the strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts for hydrogenation reactions, as discussed later.
