<quotes>
4. Conclusion and Future Direction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To In this paper, the design and construction of B active sites in different dimensions were systematically summarized. Moreover, the reaction mechanisms of the surface reactions and gas-phase radical reactions involved in the process of ODHP over B-based catalysts were discussed. It was recognized that the catalytic mechanisms on the potential active sites of tricoordination B species with different dimensional geometric configurations deepened the understanding of B-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation and provided effective guidance for the development of more efficient ODHP catalysts in the future.
Currently, although methods to construct different configurations of active sites have been well developed, some technical problems still exist that restrict the further development of B-based catalysts: (1) Like most alkane-selective oxygenation reactions, the conversionselectivity trade-off relationship significantly limits the yield of propene and olefin products in the ODHP reaction. Innovations in the catalytic systems and theories are highly desirable to address the limitation. (2) The enhancement of radical initiation ability on tricoordinated B active sites is still limited, especially the initiation at low temperatures. For instance, owing to the high barrier of the homolytic dissociation of the OH bond of the boron hydroxyl in the presence of dioxygen, it is hard to achieve the dissociationregeneration cycle between BO· and BOH (BO·  BOH) species. The recent report on the subsurface metal promoters has provided a potential strategy to reduce the working temperature of B catalysts. (113) (3) The role of B-based catalysts in the termination of active radicals may also have a strong influence on the reaction kinetics, which should be studied in detail using experimental and theoretical methods. (4) The mechanism of the surface reaction is relatively clear, but the understanding of the reaction mechanism of gas-phase radicals and the influence of the size and geometry of the confinement space on the catalytic performances is still insufficient. On one hand, the gas-phase radical process is beneficial for controlling the distribution of carbon products leading to the byproducts enriched to the olefin. On the other hand, the radical reactions may also contribute to CC cleavage and the formation of COx. Currently, a lack of systematic understanding of the initiation and mechanism of gas radical reaction processes exists. Meanwhile, the size and geometry of the confinement space in different dimensional structures play an important role in the radical reaction, and the optimal confinement effect needs to be further explored. (5) The stability of B-based catalyst and its ability to inhibit boric acid leaching need to be further improved. The hydrolysis of BOB oligomers could form the active B species, but the complete hydrolysis could lead to the formation of boric acid by B with saturated hydroxyl groups, which could deactivate the catalyst once it leaches from the reaction system because of the strong solubility of such species in water. Without an effective method to prevent the overhydrolysis of the active species, it is not possible to run the ODHP reaction at high C3H8 conversion, which will limit the potential for industrial application of the B catalysts. The single-site B-doped zeolite catalyst is a case that showed improved stability in the ODHP reaction. (60) Modifying the catalyst and enhancing the hydrophobicity of B-based catalyst may also be a potential solution to this issue.
Finally, with the achievements obtained in both catalytic performances and mechanistic understandings, the B-based catalysts have demonstrated significant potential in the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction of propane. As a reaction dominated by the radical pathway, the spatial configuration and dispersion of the active sites and synergism of the surface catalytic cycles and gas-phase reactions are highly important for catalyst design and performance optimization. Studies on these important problems in the future will promote the catalytic performances of B-based materials and open up new opportunities for the practical application of oxidative dehydrogenation techniques for the production of low olefins.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The systematic study of B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), including the multi-dimensional design of active sites and analysis of surface and gas-phase reaction mechanisms, enhances our understanding of catalytic processes by elucidating the role of tricoordination B species with different dimensional geometric configurations in propane dehydrogenation. This provides effective guidance for developing more efficient ODHP catalysts in the future. The study addresses several challenges, such as the conversion-selectivity trade-off in the ODHP reaction, limitations in radical initiation ability at low temperatures, the role of B-based catalysts in the termination of active radicals, and the understanding of gas-phase radical reactions. It also highlights the importance of catalyst stability and the prevention of boric acid leaching. These insights are crucial for optimizing catalyst design and performance, particularly in relation to the spatial configuration and dispersion of active sites, and the synergism between surface catalytic cycles and gas-phase reactions. The future direction focuses on promoting the catalytic performance of B-based materials and opening new opportunities for practical applications of oxidative dehydrogenation techniques for producing low olefins.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
对硼基催化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中的系统研究，包括活性位点在不同维度的设计以及表面和气相反应机制的分析，加深了我们对催化过程的理解，特别是通过揭示三配位硼物种在丙烷脱氢中不同几何构型的作用。这为未来开发更高效的ODHP催化剂提供了有效指导。研究解决了ODHP反应中的转化率-选择性权衡、低温度下自由基引发能力的限制、硼基催化剂在自由基终止中的作用、气体自由基反应的理解，以及不同维度结构中限制空间大小和几何形状对催化性能的影响等挑战。它还强调了催化剂稳定性和防止硼酸泄漏的重要性。这些见解对于优化催化剂设计和性能至关重要，尤其是在与活性位点的空间配置和分散以及表面催化循环和气相反应之间的协同作用有关。未来方向集中在促进硼基材料的催化性能，并为生产低烯烃的氧化脱氢技术提供新的实际应用机会。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
