<quotes>
4. Conclusion and Future Direction
It was recognized that the catalytic mechanisms on the potential active sites of tricoordination B species with different dimensional geometric configurations deepened the understanding of B-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation and provided effective guidance for the development of more efficient ODHP catalysts in the future.

Currently, although methods to construct different configurations of active sites have been well developed, some technical problems still exist that restrict the further development of B-based catalysts:

(1) The conversion-selectivity trade-off relationship significantly limits the yield of propene and olefin products in the ODHP reaction. Innovations in the catalytic systems and theories are highly desirable to address the limitation.

(2) The enhancement of radical initiation ability on tricoordinated B active sites is still limited, especially the initiation at low temperatures.

(3) The role of B-based catalysts in the termination of active radicals may also have a strong influence on the reaction kinetics, which should be studied in detail using experimental and theoretical methods.

(4) The mechanism of the surface reaction is relatively clear, but the understanding of the reaction mechanism of gas-phase radicals and the influence of the size and geometry of the confinement space on the catalytic performances is still insufficient.

(5) The stability of B-based catalyst and its ability to inhibit boric acid leaching need to be further improved.

(6) Modifying the catalyst and enhancing the hydrophobicity of B-based catalyst may also be a potential solution to this issue.

Finally, with the achievements obtained in both catalytic performances and mechanistic understandings, the B-based catalysts have demonstrated significant potential in the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction of propane. As a reaction dominated by the radical pathway, the spatial configuration and dispersion of the active sites and synergism of the surface catalytic cycles and gas-phase reactions are highly important for catalyst design and performance optimization. Studies on these important problems in the future will promote the catalytic performances of B-based materials and open up new opportunities for the practical application of oxidative dehydrogenation techniques for the production of low olefins.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The systematic study of B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances our understanding of catalytic processes by focusing on the multi-dimensional design of active sites and analysis of surface and gas-phase reaction mechanisms. This approach deepens our insight into the potential active sites of tricoordination B species with various geometric configurations, guiding the development of more efficient ODHP catalysts. The findings reveal several challenges and opportunities for future research, including improving conversion-selectivity trade-offs, enhancing radical initiation ability, studying the role of B-based catalysts in radical termination, understanding the mechanism of gas-phase radical reactions, and improving catalyst stability and hydrophobicity. These advancements promise to improve the performance of B-based catalysts and open new possibilities for the practical application of ODHP techniques in the production of low olefins.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
系统研究B基催化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢反应（ODHP）中的应用，通过关注活性位点的多维设计和表面与气相反应机制的分析，深化了我们对催化过程的理解。这种方法加深了对三价硼物种不同几何构型潜在活性位点的了解，指导了更高效ODHP催化剂的发展。研究发现了一些挑战和机遇，包括改善转化-选择性权衡、增强自由基启动能力、研究B基催化剂在自由基终止中的作用、理解气体相自由基反应机制、以及提高催化剂稳定性和疏水性。这些进展有望提升B基材料的催化性能，并为低烯烃生产技术的实际应用开辟新的可能性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
