<quotes>
Results from N2 adsorption, XRD and TEM indicated that impregnation method used here led to a highly-dispersed ceria on carbon.
Conversely to massive CeO2, TPR profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), which are indicative of the easier reduction of the supported promoter.
Addition of platinum partially promotes the reduction of surface ceria, this indicating a close metal-promoter interaction.
Ceria reducibility was increased with tin addition.
After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C was the most active catalyst, while the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity.
Reduction at high temperature (773 K) produced the decrease of activity in the case of monometallic sample while bimetallic catalysts, specially the one with Sn/Pt = 0.25, increased the citral conversion values.
Reduction treatment at 773 K also increased selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) of bimetallic samples, which presented in all cases higher values than their monometallic counterpart.
The onset of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites after the reduction process is proposed to explain the increase in activity and selectivity of bimetallic catalysts.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study demonstrates that bimetallic Pt-Sn catalysts supported on highly-dispersed ceria on carbon exhibit enhanced activity and selectivity in the hydrogenation of citral compared to monometallic catalysts. The use of ceria as a promoter facilitates easier reduction of the surface ceria, and the addition of tin increases ceria reducibility. After reduction, the presence of tin in the catalyst leads to a decrease in activity for the monometallic Pt catalyst but increases the activity of the bimetallic Pt-Sn catalyst, especially when the Sn/Pt ratio is 0.25. This bimetallic catalyst also shows improved selectivity towards unsaturated alcohols. The formation of new PtCeOx and PtSnOx sites after reduction is hypothesized to explain the increased activity and selectivity of the bimetallic catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究结果表明，含铂锡的双金属催化剂在碳上支持高度分散的氧化铈表现出与单一金属催化剂相比，增强的活性和选择性，在环己醇的氢化过程中。氧化铈作为促进剂，可以更容易地还原表面氧化铈，而添加锡则增加了氧化铈的可还原性。在还原处理后，对于单一金属铂催化剂而言，锡的存在导致其活性下降，但对于铂锡双金属催化剂，尤其是在Sn/Pt比为0.25的情况下，其活性增加。此外，该双金属催化剂对不饱和醇的选择性也有所提高。还原过程后形成的新的PtCeOx和PtSnOx位点被推测解释了双金属催化剂的活性和选择性的增加。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
