I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Vacancy formation and CO adsorption on gold-doped ceria surfaces Michael Nolan a,*, Victor Soto Verdugo b, Horia Metiu b a Tyndall National Institute, Lee Maltings, Prospect Row, Cork, Ireland b Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 16 November 2007 Accepted for publication 24 June 2008 Available online 10 July 2008 Keywords: Density functional calculations Adsorption Catalysis Surface defects Doping Ceria a b s t r a c t We study the effect of gold doping on oxygen vacancy formation and CO adsorption on the (110) and (100) surfaces of ceria by using density functional theory, corrected for on-site Coulomb interactions (DFT + U). The Au dopant substitutes a Ce atom in the surface layer, leading to strong structural distor- tions. The formation of one oxygen vacancy near a dopant atom is energetically downhill while the for- mation of a second vacancy around the same dopant requires energy. When the surface is in equilibrium with gaseous oxygen at 1 atm and room temperature there is a 0.4 probability that no oxygen atom left the neighborhood of a dopant. This means that the sites where the dopant has not lost oxygen are very active in oxidation reactions. Above 400 K almost all dopants have an oxygen vacancy next to them and an oxidation reaction in such a system takes place by creating a second vacancy. The energy required to form a second vacancy is smaller on (110) than on (100). On the (110) surface, it is much easier to form a second vacancy on the doped surface than the first vacancy on the undoped surface. The energy required to form a second oxygen vacancy on (100) is comparable to that of forming the first vacancy on the undoped surface. Thus doping makes the (110) surface a better oxidant but it has a small effect on the oxidative power of the (100) surface. On the (110) surface CO adsorption results in formation of a carbonate-like structure, similar to the undoped surface, while on the (100) surface direct formation of CO2 is observed, in contrast to the undoped surface. The Au dopant weakens the bond of the surround- ing oxygen atoms to the oxide making it a better oxidant, facilitating CO oxidation. 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Cerium oxide is used in oxidation and dehydrogenation cataly- sis [1,2]. In most cases the molecule to be oxidized takes oxygen from the surface creating oxygen vacancies on it. The oxygen mol- ecule from the gas phase annihilates the vacancies closing thus the catalytic cycle. Ceria surfaces have a relatively small oxygen va- cancy formation energy, which arises from the ability of ceria to change oxidation state from (formally) +4 to (formally) +3.
Doping of ceria with other metallic elements, such as Zr, has been shown to enhance thermal stability [3,4] and to promote cat- alytic activity [111]. It is believed that doping facilitates the reduction of ceria [412] by weakening CeO bonds around the dopant. A number of computational studies have demonstrated that the oxygen vacancy formation energy is lower when the sur- face is doped with Zr [3,4,11].
Recent calculations [12] have shown that replacing a Ce atom on the CeO2(111) surface enhances CO oxidation. The CeO and dopantO bonds are weakened upon formation of the doped mate- rial, reducing the oxygen vacancy formation energy and enhancing the reactivity of the surface.
In this paper, we use density functional theory corrected for on- site Coulomb interactions (DFT + U) to study the effect of doping the (110) and (100) surfaces with Au on oxygen vacancy forma- tion and on CO adsorption. Comparison is made with previous studies of CO adsorption on the undoped surfaces [1315]. We are interested in the (110) and (100) surfaces, because they are exposed on nanorods [16,17] and nanoparticles [1517] and show enhanced activity compared to the (111) surface [1317] and computational work from Liu et al. shows that gold on the (111) surface enhances CO oxidation [18].
2. Methods
We use a slab to describe ceria surface and a plane wave basis set to describe the wave functions of the valence electrons [19].
The projector augmented wave (PAW) approach of Blchl [20] de- scribes the interaction between the core and the valence electrons.
The Ce core is [Xe], [He] on O and C and [Xe] on Au and for Ce, we use the PAW potential with 12 valence electrons, treating the 4f electrons are valence. The plane wave cut-off energy is 396 eV;compared to a 500 eV cut-off, there is little change in properties 0039-6028/$ - see front matter  2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.susc.2008.06.028 * Corresponding author. Fax: +353 21 4270 271.
E-mail addresses: michael.nolan@tyndall.ie (M. Nolan), metiu@chem.ucsb.edu (H. Metiu).
Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Surface Science journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/susc such as vacancy formation energies and in refs. [21,22] conver- gence tests for the technical parameters discussed below were per- formed.
The PerdewBurkeErnzerhof
(PBE)
functional [23] accounts for exchange and correlation. In common with earlier studies [13,14,21,22,2426], we use density functional theory (DFT) corrected for on-site Coulomb interactions (DFT + U), where U = 5 eV and is applied to the Ce 4f states. The details of this ap- proach and the choice of U are discussed extensively in [21,22].
Briefly, due to the fact that the self interaction of an electron is not correctly cancelled in DFT, there is an artificial barrier to elec- tronic localisation, since the self interaction is biased towards delo- calising electronic states. The introduction of the on-site Coulomb interaction, U, helps to remove some of the self-interaction error,reducing the artificial barrier to localisation, forming localised elec- tronic states, in agreement with experiment and contrary to the GGA result. The actual value of U is usually chosen to recover the correct value of an experimentally measured parameter, e.g. the magnetic moment or the band gap. For the present system, this is difficult, since we are dealing with a defect state. In the present work, we choose a value of U that leads to localisation of two elec- trons in the Ce 4f states for each oxygen vacancy and an electronic structure corresponding to that observed in experimental UPS spectra [21,22]. While we have taken an empirical route to deter- mine U, there has been recent work, attempting to compute U from first principles [27,28]. While this can remove the empiricism in DFT + U computations, U is still generally fitted to reproduce the property of interest [21,22,27,28]. k-Point sampling is performed using the MonkhorstPack scheme, with a (2  2  1) grid and Fermi level smearing is performed using the MethfesselPaxton scheme [29].
The (110) surface is a type II surface with neutral stoichiome- tric planes so that no dipole moment is present upon cleaving.
The (100) surface is a type III surface [22,30] with a non-zero di- pole moment. For the (110) and (100) surface calculations a thick- ness of 11.5 Å (seven atomic layers) and 10.94 Å (nine layers) was required. Moving half of the oxygen atoms from one face of the slab to the other removes the dipole [22,31]. The vacuum layer is 15 Å on both surfaces. The vacancy is formed by removing one oxy- gen atom from the surface. In common with the vast majority of publications on the topic of oxygen vacancies in ceria, we study neutral oxygen vacancies. This allows for comparison with these previous studies. Oxygen vacancy defects can result in F-centres (trapped electrons at the site of the oxygen vacancy) or reduced metal cations. In ceria, there is no evidence of F-centres are and in- stead, the metal cation is reduced. While there have been recent studies which have examined different charge states of oxygen vacancies in ceria [32], in catalysis, the oxide is not in contact with an electron reservoir (which enables charge transfer to the oxide) and the question of the charge state of the vacancy does not arise.
On both surfaces, we use a surface supercell with eight surface oxygen atoms so that formation of one oxygen vacancy gives a va- cancy concentration of 12.5% at the surface and an overall vacancy concentration of between 1.6% and 3.3%, depending on surface and number of vacancies (see Section 3). These supercells are signifi- cantly larger than in previous calculations on ceria surfaces [21,22,25] reducing defectdefect interactions and allowing better treatment of an adsorbed molecule. Upon introduction of the dop- ant and the vacancy, we relax all layers except the bottom two. For the ionic relaxation in a fixed lattice, the forces are relaxed until they are less than 0.02 eV/Å.
CO was adsorbed at these surfaces in a number of configura- tions to probe the dependence of adsorption energy on the adsorp- tion site. To investigate further the nature of adsorbed species, we use a mass weighted diagonalization of the second derivative ma- trix in a fixed lattice to compute the vibrational frequencies of ad- sorbed CO, which we compare to the available experimental data.
3. Results
3.1. The structure of the stoichiometric, doped surfaces
We show the relaxed surfaces for the Au-doped (110) and (100) surfaces in Fig. 1a and b; the dopant is the grey sphere in the outermost layer in each surface (we did not consider dop- ing in subsurface layers of the surfaces [12]). In the (110) surface,neutral layers of CeO2 stoichiometry are present. The Ce atoms in the surface layer are coordinated to two pairs of surface oxygen atoms and a pair of subsurface oxygen atoms. Each subsurface oxygen atom is coordinated with a subsurface Ce atom. Upon doping, the Au atom moves outward from its initial lattice site (Fig. 1a), the oxygen atoms in the first subsurface layer move to- wards the bulk, away from the dopant, resulting in dopant-to- oxygen distances of 2.81 Å, compared to CeO distances of
2.21 Å in the undoped surface. The oxygen atoms neighboring
the dopant in the surface layer move outwards, resulting in elon- gated CeO distances between Ce in the first subsurface layer and oxygen in the surface layer; these are 2.46 Å, compared to 2.33 Å for the undoped surface. The oxygen atoms in the subsurface layer that are nearest to the dopant are pulled towards the dop- ant, resulting in AuO distances of 2.09 Å, compared to a CeO distance of 2.32 Å in the undoped surface. This displacement of oxygen atoms elongates one pair of CeO distances involving the surface Ce atom neighboring the dopant to 2.74 Å and short- ens the other pair to 2.26 Å.
The undoped (100) surface shows a zigzag structure of Ce OCeO, with 2-coordinated oxygen atoms in the surface layer.
These CeO distances are 2.19 Å and the distance to subsurface oxygen from Ce is 2.50 Å. Upon doping with Au, we find some distortions to the atomic structure around the dopant site. Sim- ilar to the (110) surface, the dopant moves outwards and pulls an oxygen atom from the next sublayer with it. This dopant dis- placement is more pronounced on (110) than on (100). The dis- tance from the dopant to the surface oxygen atoms is 1.94 Å,substantially shorter than the CeO distance in the undoped sur- face (which is 2.19 Å). Looking down on the surface, we see that the subsurface oxygen atoms are repelled away from the dopant.
These oxygen atoms have a shortened distance to surface Ce of
2.33 Å. The oxygen atoms in the surface layer nearest the dopant
are pulled towards the dopant, so that distances to the nearest Ce ions are elongated to 2.24 Å. Such displacement indicates a weakening of the CeO bonds involving these oxygen atoms,which should increase the reactivity of the doped surface. Upon doping into both surfaces and upon vacancy formation, the Au atom is oxidised, resulting in the formation of Aud+; Au charges are +0.45 electrons and +0.1 electrons in the doped (110) and (100) surfaces. The presence of this species is independent of using DFT or DFT + U.
3.2. Oxygen vacancy formation in the doped surfaces
For both surfaces doped with Au, we consider formation of one oxygen vacancy, both near the dopant (a distance of 2.08 Å (110) and 1.96 Å (100) from the dopant) and away from the dopant (a distance of 7.10 Å (110) and 7.00 Å (100) from the dopant). For two oxygen vacancies, we consider a number of vacancy patterns,(i) both vacancies near the dopant, (ii) one vacancy near the dopant and one vacancy far away from the dopant or (iii) both vacancies far away from the dopant. For this scenario, we discuss the most stable patterns in Section 3.3.The formation energy of the first oxygen vacancy (giving a va- cancy concentration in the slab model of 1.8% in (110) and 1.6% in (100)) is given by
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
2735 Evac;1 1 0  ECeO1:964  E1=2O2  ECeO2;1a Evac;1 0 0  ECeO1:968  E1=2O2  ECeO2:1b For the second oxygen vacancy (giving a vacancy concentration of
3.6% on (110) and 3.2% on (100)) we use
Evac;1 0 0  ECeO1:928  E1=2O2  ECeO1:92;2a Evac;1 0 0  ECeO1:936  E1=2O2  ECeO1:92:2b The subscript on the oxygen indicates the stoichiometry in the en- tire surface slab upon removal of one or two oxygen atoms. If the resulting energy is negative (exothermic) an oxygen vacancy is thermodynamically stable, whereas a positive energy signifies an energy cost to form the vacancy.
We consider first the formation of one oxygen vacancy from the doped surface. In the (110) surface the vacancy site near the dop- ant involves removing one of the surface oxygen atoms closest to the dopant. In Fig. 2a and b we show the structure of the surface after removing an oxygen atom next to the dopant. The structure of the surface when we make an oxygen vacancy away from the dopant is shown in Fig. 2c and d. In both cases the dopant remains at its lattice site after the vacancy is formed. For the (100) surface,we show the structure of the surface with a vacancy in Fig. 3ad.
The vacancy formation energy for the first oxygen vacancy on the (110) surface is 0.08 eV, when the vacancy is near the dopant and it is +0.15 eV when the vacancy is away from the dopant. In both cases the formation energies are substantially smaller than on the undoped surface (for which the energy of forming one va- cancy is 2.07 eV [22]). For the (100) surface, the vacancy formation energies are 0.82 eV and +0.28 eV for a vacancy near the dopant and away from the dopant, respectively. Again, these energies are substantially smaller than in the undoped surface (which is 2.22 eV [21,22]).
The key finding is that upon doping of the (110) and (100) sur- faces with Au, the oxygen vacancy formation energy is negative,indicating that if the system is in equilibrium, oxygen vacancies will be thermodynamically favourable. By lengthening of the Ce O distances around the dopant site, doping makes removal of a neighboring oxygen atom rather facile. It is interesting to note that the vacancy formation energy in the (111) surface calculated with DFT is 0.36 eV for a vacancy neighboring the dopant and +0.56 eV for a vacancy outside the first coordination shell of the dopant.
Thus, assuming the energetics of vacancy formation are reasonably described with DFT (we have computed a lowering of the forma- tion energy by 0.41 eV with DFT + U on the undoped (100) surface,compared to DFT [21]), then gold doping of ceria surfaces will make oxygen vacancies thermodynamically favourable. Based on these energies alone one would be inclined to think that it is the formation of the second energy vacancy that controls the oxidation activity of the oxide surface. However, a thermodynamic analysis (the details of which are presented in the appendix) of the equilib- rium concentration of the vacancies in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase indicates that at room temperature and oxygen pres- sure of 1 atm there are oxygen atoms near the dopant and these will be very reactive. At higher temperatures all oxygen next to the dopant is gone and the formation of the second vacancy will control the oxidation activity of the doped oxide surface. This is a model in which the dopants are isolated, and we do not consider dopant clustering. While the latter can form in doped oxides, the most active sites are at the interface between the dopant and oxy- gen of the host. This interface is satisfactorily modeled by the setup in this paper and previous studies [3,4,11,12,18]. In addition, if the vacancies do not interact there will be one vacancy per dopant.
However, one expects that unless the concentration of vacancies is very low there will be some interaction and the presence of vacancies around some dopants will make it harder to make vacan- cies around other dopants. We have not considered this interaction here.
We now discuss briefly the atomic structure of the defective doped surfaces. In the (110) surface, when a vacancy forms near the dopant, the other oxygen atom (of the pair of oxygen atoms near the dopant) moves off its lattice site in order to bridge the dopant and the nearest surface Ce atom, with a CeO distance of
2.20 Å (Fig. 2a). AuO distances are 2.07 and 2.22 Å. When the va-
cancy is further away from the dopant (see Fig. 2b), an oxygen atom is displaced out of the surface layer to bridge the two surface Ce atoms, with CeO distances of 2.19 Å. At the dopant site, the AuO distances are 2.08 and 2.12 Å, with a small change compared to the defect free doped surface. This oxygen atom also moves out of the surface layer indicating that formation of another oxygen va- cancy, involving this atom, could be rather facile. Other distortions of the surface caused by vacancy formation are rather small.
On the (100) surface, with a vacancy near the dopant, the dop- ant moves further into the surface, presumably to increase its coor- Fig. 1. Ceria surfaces doped with Au. (a) (110) and (b) (100). The dopant is the large grey sphere and the atoms of the first surface layers are indicated as large spheres, Ce = white and O = red. The figures in the left-hand side show a side view of the surface and the ones on the right-hand side present a top view of the surface. (For interpretation of the references in colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 2736
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
dination. The surface oxygen atom coordinated to the dopant also moves into the surface, with an AuO distance of 2.01 Å. There are no further distortions due to vacancy formation. When the vacancy is away from the dopant, there is little change to the structure around the dopant site. The CeO distances neighbouring the va- cancy site are 2.05 and 2.11 Å, compared to 2.19 Å in the surface with no vacancies. The AuO distances are 2.02 and 2.03 Å, which are a little longer than in the defect free undoped surface. There are no further notable distortions to the structure in this case.
Finally, after vacancy formation, the charge state of the gold dopant is hardly affected, indicating that the dopant is not involved directly in the vacancy formation process. Finally, both DFT and DFT + U give qualitatively similar descriptions of the vacancy for- mation energetics in each surface, e.g. formation of the first oxygen vacancy gives an energy change of 0.56 eV and 0.82 eV in the Au-doped (100) surface with DFT and DFT + U, respectively.
3.3. The formation of a second oxygen vacancy
Since at sufficiently high temperature and an oxygen pressure of 1 atm almost all dopants have an oxygen vacancy next to them,it is the formation of a second oxygen vacancy that determines the oxidation activity of the doped surface. We use Eq. (2) to compute the formation energy of a second oxygen vacancy, where the start- Fig. 2. Structures for one oxygen vacancy on the (110) surface. (a) and (b) the vacancy is near the dopant, (c) and (d) the vacancy is away from the dopant. The color scheme is the same as Fig. 1 and the vacancy site is indicated with a V in the image and the figures in the left-hand side show a side view of the surface and the ones on the right-hand side present a top view of the surface.
Fig. 3. Structures for one oxygen vacancy on the (100) surface. (a) and (b) the vacancy is near the dopant, (c) and (d) the vacancy is away from dopant. The color scheme is the same as Fig. 1 and the vacancy site is indicated with a V in the image and the figures in the left-hand side show a side view of the surface and the ones in the right-hand side shows how the surface appears when one looks down it.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
2737 ing point is the defective, doped surface discussed in Section 3.2.
The locations of the two vacancies in the most stable vacancy dis- tribution are shown in Fig. 4. In these structures, both oxygen vacancies are near the dopant, with dopant-vacancy distances gi- ven in Section 3.2. In Fig. 4a, the two vacancies lie on the same line so that only one V is visible.
Beginning with a doped surface that has one oxygen vacancy present, the formation energy of a second vacancy on the (110) surface having already a vacancy near the dopant is +0.68 eV and the structure is shown in Fig. 4a and b. It takes +2.65 eV to form a second vacancy away from the dopant. On (100), the correspond- ing energies are 2.57 eV for the two vacancies near the dopant (Fig. 4c and d and 2.26 eV where the second vacancy is away from the dopant. Compared with the undoped surface, we see that forma- tion of the second vacancy on (110) is rather easy, but only if the both vacancies are near the dopant. On (100) the presence of the dopant has little impact on the formation of the second oxygen vacancy, irrespective of the position of the second vacancy site. The range of oxygen vacancy formation energies on these surfaces is quite broad, going from 0.08 eV (one vacancy on Au-doped (110) surface) to 2.61 eV (two vacancies, one near, on away from the dopant on Au-doped (110) surface) and we see that increasing the vacancy concentration causes an increase in the formation en- ergy of the vacancy. This suggests that for the (110) surface a va- cancy concentration of 3.6% is possible, but that a similar concentration for the (100) surface is not favourable. Further va- cancy formation will be expected to have an even larger energy cost. Taken with the results of Ref. [12], these energies suggest a strong influence of the dopant on the catalytic activity of ceria sur- faces, with a notable surface dependence present.On (110), there are two surface oxygen atoms neighboring the dopant, and the dopantO distances are 2.02 Å, which are short- ened over the vacancy structure detailed in Section 3.2. These sur- face atoms have moved out of the surface plane, with CeO distances of 2.05 and 2.08 Å. The reduced coordination of the Ce atom results in a shortening of the CeO distances. This also indi- cates that formation of a third oxygen vacancy near the dopant will be less favorable. This means that there is a temperature window in which the doped oxide provides an oxidation reaction with only one oxygen atom per dopant.On the (100) surface, the outermost oxygen atoms near the dopant are displaced towards the dopant, with an accompanying distortion of the outermost Ce atoms and third layer oxygen atoms.CeO distances involving the outermost oxygen atoms are between
2.09 and 2.26 Å, with the shortest CeO distances for those oxygen
atoms nearest the dopant.
3.4. The equilibrium concentration of various types of vacancies
The vacancy formation energies can be used in a simple statis- tical model to calculate the equilibrium concentration of various surface oxygen vacancies when the system is in contact with gas- eous oxygen. These concentrations depend on surface temperature and oxygen pressure. Our model assumes that we can replace the solid with a lattice in which each dopant is a lattice site. Near each dopant we can have one of the following species: a vacancy next to the dopant (denoted A), a vacancy away from the dopant (denoted B) and two vacancies near the dopant (denoted C). We further as- sume that the dopant surface concentration is low and these vacancies do not interact with each other. Finally, we neglect the changes in the chemical potential caused by changes in vibrational frequencies of the solid when one of these vacancies is present. In this model the equilibrium concentrations of these species are af- fected only by the energy of forming them, by the configurational entropy and by the chemical potential of gaseous oxygen. The lat- ter is as important as the formation energies. The surface concen- trations provided by this analysis will be present in the system only if it is carefully equilibrated by exposing the material for as long a time as necessary, to gas phase oxygen and fixed partial pressure and temperature. The details are elementary and are gi- ven in the Appendix.
The dependence on temperature of the equilibrium concentra- tions resulting from this calculation is given in Fig. 5, for a pressure of 1 atm. On the (110) surface at 250 K, 20% of the dopants have a vacancy next to them and no other type of vacancy is present. This means that at equilibrium, 80% of dopants still have all the oxygen Fig. 4. Structure of two oxygen vacancies in (a) and (b) the (110) and (c) and (d) the (100) surfaces, where the vacancies are near the dopant. The vacancy sites are indicated with a V in the image. The coloring of the ions is the same as Fig. 1. 2738
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
atoms nearby. Since removal of the atoms adjacent to the dopant is exothermic it is likely that they will easily engage in oxidation reactions with molecules adsorbed on the surface. At about 400 K the surface lost one oxygen atom next to each dopant and very few vacancies away from the dopant or double vacancies are pres- ent. Because the energy to make the second vacancy is less on the doped surface than on the undoped one, the doped surface with one oxygen vacancy near each dopant is still a better oxidant than the undoped one.
3.5. CO adsorption on the (110) and (100) Surfaces
In this section, we investigate CO adsorption on the doped (110) and (100) surfaces. Unlike Ref. [12], we make no attempt to study the catalytic cycle for the formation of CO2 and the healing of the vacancy. Instead, we wish to compare CO adsorption on the doped and the undoped surfaces. The energy change upon CO adsorption is Eads  ECeO2  CO  ECeO2  ECO:3 Eads is negative when the surface with adsorbed CO is more stable than the surface separated from the CO.
The structure of CO on the (110) surface is shown in Fig. 6a.
Similar to the undoped surface, CO adsorbs to form a carbonate- like structure in which two oxygen atoms are abstracted from the surface to bond to the carbon of the carbonyl group. The car- bonyl bond length is 1.26 Å and the bond between the carbon and each of the two surface oxygen atoms is 1.32 Å. For the un- doped surface these distances are 1.23 Å and 1.37 Å, respectively.
The adsorption energy on the doped surface is 4.70 eV, compared to 1.95 eV on the undoped surface; the dopant greatly stabilizes the carbonate. The calculated stretching frequency of the carbonyl on the doped (110) surface is 1647 cm1, while on the undoped (110) surface it is 1710 cm1 [17]. The latter value is fairly close to the measured [33,34] frequency of 1728 cm1 for the C@O stretch. For reference, gas phase CO has a stretching frequency of 2103 cm1. The substantial shift of C@O stretching frequency for the doped surface can be used to identify the presence of a dopant in the surface layer. This is important since it is in general difficult to prove experimentally that a doped surface has been prepared.
The doped (110) surface is distorted by CO adsorption: the dopant and the Ce atom in the same row as the dopant move out of the surface plane and the dopant itself moves away from the Ce atom and from the carbonate.
On the (100) surface, CO reacts with the doped surface to form CO2, as shown in Fig. 6b, with an energy gain of 3.90 eV. The CO2 molecule is 1 Å above the outermost surface layer The presence of CO2 is indicated by CO distances of 1.16 Å and 1.19 Å, consistent with the CO distance of 1.16 Å for gas phase CO2. The large ener- getic stabilization of the adsorption structures indicates that the surface oxygen atoms are very reactive, which is consistent with the results of Section 3.2. On the (100) surface, the dopant moves outwards to be in line with the surface oxygen atoms.
Fig. 5. Temperature dependence of oxygen vacancy concentration on Au-doped CeO2(110) surface. Oxygen pressure is 1.0 atm. In the legend, the entries 1 vacancy near and 1 vacancy far signify a single oxygen vacancy near the dopant and away from the dopant, respectively. The legend entry 2 vacancies near refers to two oxygen vacancies near the dopant.
Fig. 6. Relaxed adsorption structures for CO adsorbed on (a): Au-doped (110) surface (b): Au-doped (100) surface. In both parts we show a front, plan and side view of the resulting adsorption structure. The coloring of the ions is the same as Fig. 1 and the carbon of the CO molecule is the mall grey sphere.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
2739 The atom and angular momentum decomposed Ce partial elec- tronic density of states (PEDOS) is displayed in Fig. 7 for both sur- faces. The valence band is peak I in Fig. 7 and the unoccupied Ce 4f states are indicated by the narrow peak III. Peak II in the PEDOS arises from the formation of reduced (formally) Ce3+ ions, in which the Ce 4f states are occupied. This PEDOS feature is a signature of reduced Ce, as has been shown in many studies [21,22,25,3537].
The presence of the reduced Ce ions upon interaction with CO is consistent with the results for the interaction of CO with the un- doped surfaces in Refs. [16,17].
3.6. Discussion
Similar to the findings for the (111) surface in Ref. [12], the presence of an Au dopant lowers dramatically the energy for oxy- gen vacancy formation on the (110) and (100) surfaces. In fact, the energy of vacancy formation is negative on all three CeO2 surfaces.
Thus cation doping in principle enhances the oxidative power of ceria, irrespective of the surface present. However, the negative va- cancy formation energy and our thermodynamics analysis indicate that at temperatures applicable to catalysis, the dopant will have an oxygen vacancy next to it. Therefore oxidation reactions will be facilitated by forming a second oxygen vacancy. The vacancy formation energies show that the dopant facilitates the formation of a second oxygen vacancy on (110) but not on (100), revealing a notable surface dependence that could be exploited in the design of nanostructured ceria catalysts.
At 0 K, in the absence of oxygen in the gas phase, each dopant will have a vacancy next to it. The exposure of the surface to 1 atm of O2 changes this situation. Below room temperature most of the dopants will have no oxygen vacancy around them. Because one oxygen atom next to each dopant is very weakly bound, the surface will be a good low temperature oxidant. This does not mean that it will be a good oxidation catalyst. The oxygen vacancy created when the surface oxidizes a molecule must be healed by adsorption of oxygen from the gas phase. Unless this reoxidation of the surface is facile the oxidation reaction will reduce the sur- face and at some point the oxidation process stops. A good oxidant needs to give away oxygen easily. A good oxidation catalyst must strike a balance [12]: if it gives oxygen too easily it will not be effective in taking oxygen from the gas phase.
Another possible advantage of a doped oxide comes from the fact that there is a temperature window in which the surface will provide only one oxygen atom per dopant. This means that the probability that doped oxides are selective oxidation catalysts is high.
It is interesting to note that DFT [12] and DFT + U (this work) provide the same general trend: vacancy formation in ceria sur- faces is enhanced by Au doping, so that the qualitative results pro- vided by DFT appear to be sound. It appears that for studies where,e.g. energetics and structure are of interest, DFT and DFT + U gen- erally provide qualitatively similar results. Other recent examples where DFT was used rather than DFT + U include formaldehyde on CeO2 [38], methanol on CeO2 [39] and butanediol on CeO2 (111) [40]. In addition, some studies of doped CeO2 have been pre- sented, e.g. NiCeO2 [41] and rare earth doping [42]. It appears that in describing many features of these systems, the description of the electronic structure is not critical and DFT is adequate, although it will be worth examining this assumption (for example CO adsorp- tion is impacted by choice of DFT or DFT + U [13,43]) and we do ex- pect DFT to be problematical where the electronic structure plays a key role. This suggests that one strategy could be to use DFT for ini- tial screening of e.g. dopants or adsorption structure and DFT + U to provide the detailed analysis of the few potentially interesting sys- tems. However, it is important to note that previous results [21] show that the magnitude of the oxygen vacancy formation energy is affected by the choice of approach, which is a reflection of the different electronic structure produced by DFT and DFT + U.
With the example of CO adsorption, an intermediate step in CO oxidation, we find that doping is a favourable approach to enhanc- ing the oxidation process. Similar to the undoped surface, the prod- uct formed by adsorption depends on the crystal face. On the (110) surface CO forms a carbonate while on the (100) surface CO ad- sorbs on top of the oxygen atom near the dopant and forms a struc- ture that is very close to a CO2 molecule. We trace this to the surface structure, where the OO distance on the (100) surface,which is similar to (111), makes it hard for two oxygen atoms to be pulled off their lattice sites and interact with CO to form CO3.
4. Conclusions
We have presented computations of oxygen vacancy formation in and CO adsorption on gold-doped ceria (110) and (100) sur- faces, using periodic plane wave density functional theory with an on-site Coulomb correction (DFT + U). Similar to the findings for the (111) surface in Ref. [12], the presence of the dopant lowers dramatically the energy for oxygen vacancy formation on these surfaces. In fact, the energy for vacancy formation is negative on all three surfaces. Thus cation doping in principle will enhance the oxidative power of ceria, irrespective of the surface. However,the negative vacancy formation energy and our thermodynamic analysis indicate that at temperatures applicable to catalysis, the dopant will have an oxygen vacancy next to it. Therefore an oxida- tion reaction will be facilitated by forming a second oxygen va- cancy. The dopant facilitates the formation of a second vacancy on (110) but not on (100), revealing a surface dependence,which could be exploited in future catalytic systems based on Fig. 7. Spin polarised Ce PEDOS for CO on (a) the Au-doped (110) surface and (b) the Au-doped (100) surface. The zero of energy is the top of the valence band. 2740
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 602 (2008) 27342742
nanostructured ceria, which are known to expose faces other than (111). Doping results in a temperature window in which the sur- face provides a single oxygen atom per dopant, so that there is a good probability that a doped oxide will be a good selective oxida- tion catalyst. For CO adsorption, doping enhances the interaction of the molecule with the surface, making carbonate formation on (110) more favourable and facilitating direct formation of CO2 at the (100) surface.
Finally, we point out that although doping enhances surface reduction, it will be important to analyse how healing of the oxy- gen vacancy, either by oxygen or a molecule such as NOX, is im- pacted by doping.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 