<quotes>
[1] "The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C)."
[2] "With (Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H, ethane was transformed at room temperature into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane."
[3] "Metathesis reactions of alkanes seem to involve, at least to some extent, the reaction of all C-C bonds."
[4] "In the case of ethane, secondary reactions seem to occur very soon with the appearance of butane and especially isobutane, the formation of which necessarily arises from a secondary reaction of propane."
[5] "Among the known elementary steps, two possibilities can be considered: (i) The oxidative addition of the ethane C-C bond (16) would yield the dim- ethyl(ethyl)tantalum(V) surface complex; reduction of propane from this complex could follow, with the concomitant release of a tantallm-methyl species."
[6] "Such a mechanism is also operating in the case of higher alkanes. For example, the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane is determined in the first step of C-H bond activation, which yields two species, tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-iso-propyl surface complexes (Scheme 3)."
[7] "The metathesis of isobutane is particularly interesting with respect to the product distribution."
[8] "Despite this, the production of neopentane resulting from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs in substantial amounts."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. The two-site scheme proposes that the oxidative addition of the alkane C-C bond yields a dimethyl(ethyl)tantalum(V) surface complex, followed by the reduction of propane with the release of a tantalum-methyl species. The one-site scheme suggests that the metathesis reaction involves a four-centered transition state with the presence of an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle, enabling the transfer of a methyl group from one molecule of the initial alkane to a second one. This process is exemplified by the transformation of ethane into an equimolar mixture of propane and methane at room temperature. The metathesis reaction can lead to the formation of several higher and lower homologs from higher linear alkanes, with the main reaction involving the transfer of a methyl fragment from one molecule of the initial alkane to a second one. Secondary reactions, such as the formation of butane and isobutane from propane, can occur quickly, especially when dealing with branched alkanes like isobutane. The mechanism for the metathesis of isobutane involves the formation of two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with the formation of neopentane being favored due to steric reasons.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
硅基支持的钽氢化物催化烷烃的裂合机制涉及双位点和单一位点方案。双位点方案假设，烷烃C-C键的氧化添加产生一个二甲基(乙基)钽(V)表面复合物，随后是丙烷的还原，释放出一个钽-甲基物种。单一位点方案则提出，裂合反应涉及一个四中心过渡态，其中中间的金属环内存在一个sp3碳原子，允许从初始烷烃分子的一个分子转移到另一个分子上的甲基团。以室温将乙烷转化为等摩尔的丙烷和甲烷为实例，展示了这一过程。从更高线性烷烃中生成多个更高和更低同系物的裂合反应，主要涉及从初始烷烃分子的一个分子向另一个分子转移甲基片段的过程。当处理如异丁烷这样的支链烷烃时，快速发生副反应，如从丙烷形成丁烷和异丁烷。异丁烷的裂合机制涉及形成两个钽-烷基中间体，由于空间原因，形成新戊烷被优先考虑。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
