<quotes>
[1] "The silica-supported transition metal hydrides (23-0-Siz)(=Si-0-),Ta-H and (Si-0-),M-H (M, chromium or tungsten) catalyze the metathesis reaction of linear or branched alkanes into the next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperature (25" to 200C)."
[2] "Metathesis reactions of alkanes seem to involve, at least to some extent, the reaction of all C-C bonds."
[3] "This suggests, as observed for ethane,that the main reaction involves the transfer of a methyl fragment from one molecule of the initial alkane to a second one; the wider product distribution observed with higher alkanes (for example, butane and pentane) (Fig. 2) also suggests the probable occurrence of secondary reactions, the possible transfer of higher alkyl fragments such as ethyl, or both."
[4] "In the case of ethane, secondary reactions seem to occur very soon with the appearance of butane and especially isobutane."
[5] "Branched alkanes such as isobutane or methyl butane also underwent the metathesis reaction; however, neopentane only led to the stoichiometric formation of a surface tantalum-neopentyl species and did not react further, probably for steric reasons."
[6] "Regarding the mechanism of the reaction (15) (Scheme I), we assume that in a first step, a C-H bond of acyclic alkane (for example, ethane) is cleaved by a a-bond metathesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl (for example, ethyl) species."
[7] "The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group and necessarily implies the cleavage and the formation of C-C bonds."
[8] "Among the known elementary steps, two possibilities can be considered: (i) The oxidative addition of the ethane C-C bond (16) would yield the dimethyl(ethyl)tantalum(V) surface complex;"
[9] "The subsequent transfer of a methyl group from a second propane molecule to these propyl intermediates enables the evolution of n-butane and isobutane as well as the formation of a tantalum-ethyl complex, which in turn will yield ethane."
[10] "The metathesis of isobutane is particularly interesting with respect to the product distribution."
[11] "We can expect that the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species can be disfavored (relative to that of the other possible tantalum-isobutyl complex) for steric reasons."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. The process begins with the cleavage of a C-H bond in an acyclic alkane, such as ethane, through a bond metathesis, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species. The next step involves the transfer of a methyl group, necessitating the cleavage and formation of C-C bonds. Two possibilities exist for this step: oxidative addition or a bond metathesis mechanism. The oxidative addition yields a dimethyl(ethyl)tantalum(V) surface complex, while the bond metathesis mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with an sp3 carbon in the middle of the metallocycle. This mechanism operates similarly for higher alkanes, such as propane, leading to the formation of n-butane and isobutane, followed by the formation of a tantalum-ethyl complex. In the case of branched alkanes, such as isobutane, the formation of neopentane results from the methyl transfer step on the tantalum-tert-butyl species, although this is disfavored due to steric reasons. The metathesis reaction produces a wide range of hydrocarbons, including higher and lower homologs, with ethane undergoing a rapid secondary reaction leading to the formation of butane and especially isobutane. The catalyst's performance varies depending on the alkane's structure, with neopentane showing a different behavior compared to other branched alkanes due to steric hindrance.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
硅基支持的钽氢化物催化烷烃的裂合机制涉及两站和一站方案。过程开始于在无环烷烃，如乙烷中通过键裂合裂解一个C-H键，产生氢气和一个钽-烷基物种。下一步涉及转移甲基，需要裂解和形成C-C键。有两种可能的方式进行此步骤：氧化添加或键裂合机制。氧化添加会产生二甲基(乙基)钽(V)表面复合物，而键裂合机制涉及四个中心过渡状态，其中sp3碳位于金属周期的中间。这种机制对于更高烷烃，如丙烷，也有效，导致形成正丁烷和异丁烷，随后形成一个钽-乙基复合物。对于支链烷烃，如异丁烷，从钽-叔丁基物种转移甲基会导致叔戊烷的形成，尽管这受到立体位阻的原因而被抑制。裂合反应产生一系列烃类，包括较高和较低同系物，乙烷经历快速的二级反应，导致但烷和尤其是异丁烷的形成。催化剂的性能根据烷烃的结构而变化，与其它支链烷烃相比，异戊烷表现出不同的行为，这是由于立体位阻原因。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
