I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene
Abstract Propylene is one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry. Traditional propylene production, which is based on oil-based cracking processes, is being challenged by the drastic changes in the global energy situation. The nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technique has emerged as a high-value-rising and promising alternative to traditional propylene production techniques due to the distinct price variance between propane and propylene. Although this technique has been commercialized for decades, thermally induced deactivation is still a big problem. Substantial progress has been made to inhibit the deactivation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts. In this review, we briefly introduce the mechanism of catalytic deactivation, including coke deposition and sintering of active compounds. The design strategies of PDH catalysts, focused on improving the catalytic stability and recyclability, are highlighted from the aspects of active site regulation, metalsupport interaction enhancement, and support modification. Finally, the current status and prospects of future catalyst development are also discussed.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation heterogeneous catalysis propylene supported catalysts stability deactivation
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To Propylene, underpinning many highly valued products (polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylonitrile, and acetone), has a big industrial demand for the foreseeable future. (14) Thereinto, polypropene with high chemical durability and elasticity can be applied in various sectors like construction and packaging. Noteworthily, during the epidemic of COVID-19, polypropene has been playing an important role in the fabrication of protective equipment. The explosive growth of propylene consumption, coupled with the soaring oil price, makes it difficult for traditional techniques (fluid catalytic cracking of heavy oil and steam cracking of naphtha) to satisfy the demand. (5,6) The propane dehydrogenation technique has been considered a novel and promising route to produce propylene in the context of the appearance of abundant propane resources from the exploitation of shale gas. (7) Currently, albeit with the favorable thermodynamic condition achieved in the oxidative propane dehydrogenation (OPDH) approach, a poor propane utilization ratio and low propylene yield are usually detected on account of the complex reaction atmosphere. (8) In contrast, the nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technique with simple reaction components has already been put into industrial production. Until now, several main industrial processes for propane dehydrogenation have been successfully commercialized, among which the Catofin and Oleflex techniques are widely planted around the world. (5,6,9) In detail, the Catofin process utilizing 58 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors was developed using CrOx-based catalysts, while the Oleflex process using fluidized bed reactors instead runs with Pt-based catalysts. CrOx-based catalysts, the catalytic activity of which originates from the Lewis acid sites, are usually preferable because of the low production cost. However, the intrinsic toxicity of CrOx species along with the severe side reactions greatly impedes the application in industrial production. With regard to Pt-based catalysts, although metallic Pt is broadly identified as a promising PDH catalyst due to its environmental amiability and excellent affinity to CH bonds on alkanes, the rapid deactivation of catalytic activity induced by sintering and coke and the high production cost are still big challenges. With the further development of the PDH technique, an array of alternative catalysts, including Fe, (10,11) Co, (12,13) ZnOx, (14,15) VOx, (1618) GaOx, (19,20) and ZrOx, (21) have also been explored as economical, environmentally friendly, and efficient alternatives, which can be roughly classified into two sorts: metal-based catalysts and metal oxide-based catalysts. Besides, several types of supports have been explored, among which oxide supports (Al2O3, SiO2, and TiO2 and zeolites have been widely applied. Some catalysts with high catalytic activity often suffer from rapid deactivation and poor regeneration ability on account of coke accumulation and/or sintering of active compounds under the high temperature required in the reaction and regeneration processes. (2224) Coke deposition can occur on both the active compounds and th esupport surface, ultimately leading to catalytic deactivation by impeding mass transfer and poisoning the active sites. Sintering is a process where the supported active compounds agglomerate via a particle migration and coalescence process or the Ostwald ripening process into bigger particles. (25,26) Coke formation, coupled with the sintering behavior, is usually inevitable, resulting in an inexorable catalytic deactivation. The regeneration process is necessary to restore the catalytic activity and is commonly performed in an air atmosphere under high temperatures for the oxidative removal of coke. Besides, Cl2 is usually brought in to help the redispersion of the sintered active compounds in industrially utilized Pt-based catalysts.To alleviate the catalytic deactivation and increase the potential for practical applications, plentiful researchers have been dedicated to transforming this situation and have already thought out certain optimized strategies. In practical propylene production, hydrogen as a cofeeding gas has been utilized to inhibit the deactivation rate, obviously improving the stability of Pt-based catalysts. (27) On the one hand, the desorption barrier of propylene can be reduced; on the other hand, metallic active sites can be preserved with the existence of hydrogen. However, increasing the partial pressure of hydrogen could result in a lower propane conversion and a higher financial input. In parallel to hydrogen, carbon dioxide as a mild oxidative cofeeding gas can help inhibit the aggregation of coke precursors on the catalyst surface and resist the reduction of active metal oxides under the reductive atmosphere during the PDH process. (28,29) In addition to adjustment of the reaction conditions, many strategies in catalyst design have been proposed, making big steps in the development of the PDH process.Driven by passionate scientific interests and practical demands, a series of reviews have been published to summarize previous studies, yet these mainly focus on comprehensive summaries of the PDH reaction or the introduction of various catalytic systems. (3,5,6,30) Consequently, a review of the strategies for enhancing catalytic stability is necessary and informative. This review will precede a comprehensive introduction of catalytic deactivation factors with a brief description of the fundamental mechanism of the PDH reaction. Then we will scientifically and systematically summarize the latest representative advances in approaches for achieving eximious catalytic stability. Various design strategies are usually entangled and may have different effects on the catalytic performance depending on different catalytic systems. We endeavor to deconvolute the complicated catalytic systems that may interlace more than one synthetic strategy to understand how these strategies function. This section focusing on catalyst design will be divided into three parts: promoter introduction, metalsupport interaction enhancement, and support modification. Finally, the challenges and prospects of the current status of catalyst synthesis are also discussed.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 