<quotes>

[1] "The typical way is to introduce the post-transition metal elements (e.g., Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc.) for synthesizing co-catalysts ( Li and Wang, 2021 , Chen et al., 2021 , Shi et al., 2015 , Zhang et al., 2022 ). The emerging pre-transition metal elements (e.g., Ce, La, Y, etc.) as co-catalysts are also investigated due to their specific catalytic properties and a simple regeneration process ( Park et al., 2021 , Ryong Ryoo et al., 2020 , Li et al., 2018 , Zhu Chen et al., 2021 ), however the development is hindered by the fact of synthetic challenges."
[2] "The bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts represent one of the most promising PDH catalysts for its unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving the high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction ( Zhang et al., 2019 , Zhang et al., 2021 , Camacho-Bunquin et al., 2018 )."
[3] "The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable to achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, it furtherly integrates with Pt species to produce alloy."
[4] "The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by the XRD. As shown in Fig. S1 A, the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557 and Beta- samples, identify the structure are well-crystalline BEA topology ( Wang et al., 2022 )."
[5] "The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support."
[6] "The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, at the same time as expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions involve the introduction of post-transition metal elements such as Sn, Zn, Ga, In, Fe, etc., to synthesize co-catalysts. The emerging pre-transition metal elements like Ce, La, Y, etc., are also investigated as co-catalysts due to their specific catalytic properties and simple regeneration process. However, the development of these catalysts is hindered by synthetic challenges. Bimetal-siliceous zeolite catalysts are considered one of the most promising PDH catalysts due to their unique pore structure, which is beneficial for achieving high-dispersed active sites and tunable metal-support interaction. The bonding forces between Si-OH groups and REE species are favorable for achieving atomic dispersed REE-MFI, which further integrates with Pt species to produce alloy. The bulk phase structure of all fresh samples was investigated by XRD, and the typical characteristic diffraction peaks of the parent Beta-39, Beta-557, and Beta- samples identify the structure as well-crystalline BEA topology. The high dispersion of Al sites enhances the interaction between PtCe clusters and support. The metal-support modulation method provides a valuable reference for the construction of stable and regenerable pre-transition element alloy catalysts, expanding the potential scope of PDH industrial catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.用于丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应的金属-沸石催化剂的主要合成方法包括引入后过渡金属元素(如Sn、Zn、Ga、In、Fe等)来合成共催化剂。由于其特定的催化性能和简单的再生过程,新兴的前过渡金属元素(如Ce、La、Y等)也被研究作为共催化剂。然而,这些催化剂的开发受到合成挑战的阻碍。双金属硅酸盐沸石催化剂因其独特的孔结构,被认为是PDH催化剂中最有前景的一种,这种孔结构有利于实现高分散的活性位点和可调的金属-支撑物相互作用。Si-OH基团和REE物种之间的键合力有利于实现原子分散的REE-MFI,它进一步与Pt物种整合以产生合金。所有新鲜样品的体相结构通过XRD进行研究,母体Beta-39、Beta-557和Beta-样品的典型特征衍射峰确定结构为良好的结晶BEA拓扑。高分散的Al位点增强了PtCe簇与支撑物之间的相互作用。金属-支撑物调制方法为构建稳定和可再生的前过渡元素合金催化剂提供了有价值的参考,同时扩大了PDH工业催化剂的潜在范围。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
