<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1">
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The use of CO2 as, alternative to oxygen, soft oxidant has the potential to i) avoid deep oxidation of alkanes/alkenes, ii) reduce coke formation and iii) favor propane conversion due to participation of the produced hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (RWGS)."
          [2] "Although promising initial propylene yield was achieved, Cr-based catalysts suffer from severe and rapid deactivation within a short time, regardless of sample preparation, reaction conditions and reactor design."
          [3] "In this work, we report a series of Fe doped CeO2 as catalysts that show enhanced stability and promising catalytic performance for the propane oxidative dehydrogenation using CO2 as soft oxidant."
          [4] "Fe-doped ceria from the same synthesis batch were calcined at different temperatures and characterized by BET, Raman and XRD."
          [5] "Calcination at 600°C is beneficial in the following aspects: higher specific surface area and formation of Fe-Ce solid solution rather than two separated cerianite-hematite phases is achieved."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes typically involves the activation of C-H bonds, where traditional oxidants like oxygen play a critical role in the redox reactions. Redox-active metal oxide catalysts, such as V2O5 and VOx/SiO2, effectively utilize oxygen as a strong oxidant to facilitate the breaking of C-H bonds. In contrast, redox-inactive metal oxide catalysts might rely on weaker oxidants or employ a combination of thermal energy and chemical activation to promote the reaction. For instance, ceria (CeO2) and transition metal clusters can also be employed in oxidative dehydrogenation, albeit with differing mechanisms. Ceria is known for its ability to store and release oxygen, which can aid in the activation of CO2 for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Transition metal clusters, on the other hand, might offer a more localized and efficient redox site for alkane activation. The effectiveness of these catalysts in activating CO2 varies, with ceria showing promise due to its unique properties that allow for the efficient activation of CO2 and the promotion of alkane dehydrogenation.

          The role of CO2 as a soft oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation is significant. It helps to mitigate deep oxidation of alkanes and alkynes, reduces the formation of coke, and facilitates propane conversion by participating in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (RWGS). This property makes CO2 a valuable alternative oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.

          The document showcases the use of iron-doped ceria (Fe-CeO2) as a catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with CO2. This system demonstrates enhanced stability and promising catalytic performance compared to traditional redox-active catalysts. The catalyst's performance is attributed to the specific synthesis parameters, including calcination temperature, which affects the formation of a solid solution between iron and ceria, thereby enhancing the catalyst's activity and stability.

          The synthesis of the Fe-doped ceria catalysts involves a co-precipitation method followed by calcination at various temperatures. Calcination at 600°C is particularly advantageous because it yields higher specific surface area and forms a Fe-Ce solid solution, rather than two separated cerianite-hematite phases. This optimal synthesis condition is crucial for the catalyst's performance in oxidative dehydrogenation, as it ensures a stable and active surface for the reaction.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          在烷烃的氧化脱氢过程中，通常涉及到C-H键的活化，其中如氧气这样的传统氧化剂在氧化还原反应中扮演着关键角色。活性氧化还原金属氧化物催化剂，如V2O5和VOx/SiO2，通过利用氧气作为强氧化剂来有效地促进C-H键的断裂。相比之下，非活性氧化还原金属氧化物催化剂可能依赖于较弱的氧化剂或采用热能与化学激活的结合来促进反应。例如，铈氧化物（CeO2）和过渡金属簇也常用于氧化脱氢，尽管它们的机制有所不同。铈氧化物以其能够存储和释放氧的能力而闻名，这有助于活化CO2以促进丙烷的氧化脱氢。另一方面，过渡金属簇可能提供一个更局部且高效的还原位点来活化烷烃。这些催化剂在活化CO2的有效性各有差异，铈氧化物显示出前景，因为它具有独特的性质，能够高效地活化CO2并促进烷烃脱氢。

          CO2作为软氧化剂在氧化脱氢中的作用非常重要。它有助于避免深度氧化烷烃和炔烃，减少焦炭的形成，并通过参与逆向水煤气变换反应（RWGS）促进丙烷转换。这种特性使得CO2成为丙烷氧化脱氢的有价值替代氧化剂。

          文献展示了铁掺杂铈氧化物（Fe-CeO2）作为使用CO2作为软氧化剂的丙烷氧化脱氢催化剂的应用。这个系统相对于传统活性氧化还原催化剂显示出增强的稳定性和有前景的催化性能。催化剂的性能归因于特定的合成参数，包括煅烧温度，这影响了铁和铈之间形成固溶体，从而增强了催化剂的活性和稳定性。

          铁掺杂铈氧化物催化剂的合成涉及共沉淀法，随后在不同温度下进行煅烧。在600°C的煅烧特别有利，因为它提供了更高的比表面积并形成了Fe-Ce固溶体，而不是两个分离的铈酸盐-磁铁矿相。这种最优合成条件对于氧化脱氢催化剂的性能至关重要，因为它确保了反应表面的稳定性和活性。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
