<quotes>
Alloy catalysts designed from first principles The rational design of pure and alloy metal catalysts from fundamental principles has the potential to yield catalysts of greatly improved activity and selectivity. A promising area of research concerns the role that near-surface alloys (NSAs) can play in endowing surfaces with novel catalytic properties.
Main NSAs are defined as alloys wherein a solute metal is present near the surface of a host metal in concentrations different from the bulk; here we use density functional theory calculations to introduce a new class of these alloys that can yield superior catalytic behaviour for hydrogen-related reactions.
Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Hydrogen is also increasingly used in energy production and storage technologies, including fuel cells.
To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis.
Using simple models, we evaluate the stability of a large class of NSAs in hydrogen-rich environments, and we discuss the reactivity of hydrogen on the resulting stable surfaces.
We find, among other results, that some NSAs produce a combination of weak hydrogen binding and easy H2 dissociation. These unusual characteristics could be beneficial both for H2 dissociation to produce adsorbed H and for subsequent reactions of H with other surface species.
For H2 dissociation, weak binding of H would generally be thought to imply a high H2 activation energy barrier.
We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers.
Weak binding of H, in turn, can make subsequent reaction steps easier, thereby allowing lower temperatures to be used for reactions on these NSAs.
We begin by describing how NSAs for hydrogen-related reactions can be chosen.
Initially, we focus on two idealized classes of these alloys; in both cases, a total solute coverage of one monolayer in the near-surface region is assumed.
Later, we discuss the effects of deviations from these idealized cases.
To identify NSAs with well-defined properties, it is desirable that the composition in the near-surface region be stable in hydrogen-rich environments at appropriate temperatures and pressures.
The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption.
The first step is to estimate the surface composition in vacuum from the solute/host segregation energy database.
The second step in determining the stability of NSAs is to assess the effect of hydrogen adsorption on the surface composition.
In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly.
We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host.
If, for example, Eseg is positive, then in vacuum the solute will be found in the subsurface layers of the host.
Further, if H binds more strongly to the host than to the solute, surface hydrogen will not attract the solute to the surface, and no hydrogen-induced segregation will occur.
Hence, there is no H-induced segregation for the few solute/host pairs that lie in the lower right and upper left quadrants of Fig. 1.
In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions.
We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol - BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another.
In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures.
This analysis can be extended to estimate the stability of NSAs in more complicated, multi-adsorbate reaction environments.
The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen, so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation.
Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models.
In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host.
For example, on a five-layer W/Pt(111) subsurface alloy (a system with a very positive segregation energy), it is energetically favourable for two out of four W atoms (total W coverage = 1 monolayer) to segregate to the third metal layer, leaving only two in the second layer.
In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures.
In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions.
We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below.
However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs.
Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques.
Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off.
We now describe the properties of hydrogen on stable, ideal NSAs.
Figure 2 gives the hydrogen binding energy on the close-packed surfaces of a wide variety of pure metals and NSAs.
The range of BEHs across all pure metals studied (1.1 eV) reflects a broad spectrum of catalytic activities for hydrogen-based processes.
The figure also demonstrates that NSAs generally bind hydrogen more weakly than do pure metals.
The only pure metals with lower BEH than platinum are the noble metals (Cu, Au).
Many NSAs, however, have BEHs in this range, generating a quasi-continuous spectrum of binding energies.
In fact, certain of the subsurface alloys (for example, with the hosts Pt or Pd, and solutes Ta, W or V) bind hydrogen more weakly than do pure Cu and/or Au.
Migration of solute atoms deeper into these subsurface alloys does reduce the calculated decrease in BEH compared with the pure host, but the decrease is still significant.
Furthermore, weaker binding of surface hydrogen does not imply weaker binding of subsurface hydrogen.
For most of the Pt subsurface alloys studied in this work, the energy difference between surface and subsurface H is lowered compared with pure Pt.
This property points to potential applications of NSAs for hydrogen separation and storage.
To rationalize the variation in BEH shown in Fig. 2, we present two correlations between BEH and properties of the clean alloy surfaces.
The first involves relating BEH to the d-band centre, εd, of the NSAs.
The closer the εd is to the Fermi level, the stronger the hydrogen binding is.
Differences between the best-fit lines of the correlation for subsurface alloys with different hosts are mainly due to the differing coupling matrix elements of the respective hosts.
The scatter in the correlation is probably caused by the small size of the atomic H orbitals, leading to a relatively weak coupling between H and the d orbitals.
The second correlation involves relating Δ(BEH) to ΔEsu.
The quantity Δ(BEH) is the difference between BEH on the pure host or solute metal (depending on which metal is in the surface layer of the alloy) and on the NSA, and ΔEsu is the corresponding difference between the BEs of the surface metal layer (Fig. 3b).
With a V(solute)/Pd(host) subsurface alloy, for example, Δ(BEH) is the difference between BEH on pure Pd(111) and on the V/Pd(111) NSA, and ΔEsu is the difference between the binding energy of the top Pd layer on pure Pd(111) and that of the top Pd layer on the NSA (per surface metal atom).
Although the detailed physics behind the relationship of Δ(BEH) to ΔEsu is complex, the trend can be qualitatively understood as follows:
if the surface metal layer is an electron-rich metal (for example, Pt or Pd), then this layer couples to any electron-poor elements in the subsurface layer (for example, Ta, W or V), thereby leading to a strong metal-metal interlayer bond.
The strengthening of this bond, in turn, weakens the bonding of the surface layer to the adsorbate.
The low dissociation barrier of H2 on NSAs is the most promising property of these materials for hydrogen-related catalytic applications.
Hydrogen binds weakly to the noble metals (Fig. 2), and H2 dissociation is highly activated on those metals.
Our results indicate, however, that the transition-state energies for H2 dissociation on Cu and Au are significantly higher than are the transition-state energies on NSAs with comparable BEHs.
In fact, there is a distinct line correlating the transition-state energy with the atomic BEH for each family of NSAs terminated with a given element.
Two such families are shown in Fig. 4; one includes both subsurface alloys where Pd is the host and modestly strained Pd overlayers on other elements, whereas the other corresponds to Pt-terminated NSAs.
The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced.
For example, on the non-ideal W/Pt alloy described above, the transition-state energy is found to be 0.16 eV, compared with 0.18 eV on the ideal W/Pt(111) subsurface alloy.
The above property is unique; according to similar correlations for a number of simple dissociation reactions, weaker H binding should always imply a higher H2 dissociation barrier.
Near-surface alloys, however, escape from that rule by offering the exciting combination of weak hydrogen binding and easy H2 activation.
Here, we discuss the observed lowering of the transition-state energy from three different perspectives.
First, we analyse the transition-state energies using the HammerNrskov model.
Second, we suggest that the unusually low transition-state energies on the NSAs might be analysed by looking at the reverse reaction (that is, the hydrogen association) barriers on these surfaces.
The barriers are increased significantly on the noble metals by the energy cost needed to activate H atoms to the transition state.
The Pd-terminated alloys have a comparable H activation cost, but attraction between the two H atoms at the transition state stabilizes the saddle point.
The Pt-terminated alloys, on the other hand, have very small H activation costs and modest attraction or repulsion at the transition states, leading to low transition-state energies and to low H2 desorption temperatures (as shown experimentally for Ni/Pt(111)).
Finally, on NSAs, we find weakly bound molecular hydrogen precursors at top sites (test calculations have not shown significant entrance barriers for molecular hydrogen adsorption).
Such precursor states do not exist on the noble metals, pointing to a different interaction between the H2 orbitals and the metal d-states; this modified interaction might also affect the transition-state energies.
We note, in passing, that the existence of 'on top' precursors led us to focus primarily on over-top dissociation paths in our calculations (although we have found little difference in the barriers when checking other pathways).
In general, although we have focused primarily on H2 dissociation in this study, we expect that similarly decreased transition-state energies might be found on NSAs for other reactions.
We have determined, for example, that the transition state for methane activation (H3CH scission) on a Ta/Pt(111) subsurface alloy is 0.5 eV lower in energy than is the corresponding transition state on Au(111), although the products of this reaction have very similar binding energies on the two surfaces.
The above results demonstrate that many NSAs may have favourable hydrogen dissociation kinetics in spite of their relatively weak hydrogen binding.
Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures.
At such temperatures, there is generally insufficient thermal energy available to activate competitive reaction pathways that produce by-products, and so the overall reaction selectivity should be increased.
This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen.
By following a similar procedure, stable NSAs could be designed that bind CO weakly.
This property, combined with the facile hydrogen activation described above, could lead to improved anode catalysts for low-temperature fuel cells.
In our analysis, we have focused primarily on two idealized classes of NSAs: subsurface alloys and overlayers.
Our quantitative predictions will change for non-ideal NSAs, but test calculations, together with experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs, suggest that the qualitative trends established here will persist in those cases.
Finally, as techniques for nanoscale materials synthesis improve, we suggest that it will become feasible to prepare desired, quasi-ideal NSAs reproducibly, resulting in the design and manufacture of an even wider variety of such materials for use in catalysis and other important technological applications.
Methods The total-energy, periodic, density functional theory calculations are done self-consistently with ultrasoft pseudopotentials, slabs of four metal layers (2 × 2 unit cell), plane waves with kinetic energies up to 25 Ry, and 18 k-points in the first Brillouin zone.
Exchange and correlation effects are described within the generalized gradient approximation of Perdew et al.
Relaxation of H, H2 and the top two metal layers is allowed.
Convergence of BEH with respect to the various calculational parameters is confirmed to within 0.1 eV.
In all cases, we have restricted our attention to alloys that are found to be stable in the presence of hydrogen, and we have tested all possible H adsorption configurations on the most stable crystal facets of the metals ((111) for f.c.c. metals, (0001) for h.c.p. metals, and (110) for b.c.c. metals).
Transition states for H2 dissociation are located with the 'climbing image nudged elastic band' algorithm.
Spin-polarization effects are tested for and included where appropriate.
Zero-point energy effects are not included; such effects are found to change the hydrogen binding energies by <0.05 eV.
The calculated gas-phase H2 bond energy is 4.57 eV, in good agreement with the experimental value of 4.52 eV at 298 K.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Bimetallic catalysts have evolved in heterogeneous catalysis since their commercial introduction by improving their electronic and chemical properties to bridge the "materials gap" and "pressure gap" between model surfaces and industrially relevant supported catalysts. These advancements are crucial for both fundamental research and practical applications. Near-surface alloys (NSAs), particularly those with unique electronic and chemical properties, have shown promise in enhancing catalytic performance for hydrogen-related reactions. By designing NSAs with controlled composition and structure, researchers aim to achieve superior activity and selectivity, making them suitable for pharmaceutical production and fuel-cell anode applications. The development of NSAs relies on density functional theory calculations, which predict their behavior under various conditions. These calculations consider the stability of NSAs in hydrogen-rich environments, the reactivity of hydrogen on their surfaces, and the effects of deviations from idealized models. The analysis of NSAs' properties, such as hydrogen binding energies and dissociation barriers, reveals that these materials can offer unique kinetic advantages, especially in hydrogen dissociation, which is crucial for hydrogen-based processes. By optimizing the composition and structure of NSAs, it becomes possible to tailor their catalytic properties for specific applications, such as hydrogen activation and separation, leading to enhanced efficiency and selectivity in industrial processes.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 自商用引入以来，双金属催化剂在异质催化中的发展通过改进其电子和化学性质来弥合“材料差距”和“压力差距”，从而与模型表面和工业相关支持催化剂之间。这些进步对于基础研究和实际应用至关重要。近表面合金（NSA），尤其是那些具有独特电子和化学性质的合金，在提高氢相关反应的催化性能方面表现出潜力。通过设计具有控制组成的NSA，研究人员旨在实现更高的活性和选择性，使其适用于制药生产以及燃料电池阳极应用。NSA的发展依赖于密度泛函理论计算，这些计算预测它们在各种条件下的行为。这些计算考虑了NSA在氢丰富环境中的稳定性、氢在其表面上的反应性和偏离理想模型的情况。对NSA性质的分析，如氢结合能和分解壁垒，揭示了这些材料在氢分解方面的独特动力学优势，这对于基于氢的过程至关重要。通过优化NSA的组成和结构，有可能根据特定应用定制它们的催化性质，例如氢活化和分离，从而提高工业过程的效率和选择性。
