I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Defect-engineered zeolite porosity and accessibility The study reports a simple and potentially universal strategy for post-synthetic engineering of zeolite crystals. Our strategy includes the generation of point defects in zeolite crystals by preliminary etching with oxalic acid, followed by the development of these defects by NH4F etching. Several experimental techniques were used to measure and visualize the zeolite framework dissolution as a function of intrinsic and induced defects. It is revealed that the intrinsic defects lead to the extraction of misoriented nano domains, while those introduced by oxalic acid treatment lead further to the formation of small irregular mesopores. The resultant hierarchical zeolite shows substantially improved mesoporosity, in terms of mesopore volume and spatial distribution, and outstanding micropore acid site accessibility. These samples show superior catalytic performance in the dealkylation of a bulky molecule, 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene. Our approach highlights the significance of chemically induced extrinsic defects, which make zeolite dissolution go beyond the limits set by the zeolite structure and synthesis chemistry.
1. Introduction
Porosity and acidity are two of the most essential properties of zeolites, which are microporous crystalline aluminosilicates comprising well-defined channels and/or cages of molecular dimensions.1 The location of well-defined acid sites in the microporous space makes zeolites particularly appropriate for applications in the field of heterogeneous catalysis thanks to their unrivalled shape-selectivity.2 On the other hand, however, the micropore confinement imposes diffusion limitations when bulky molecules are to be processed.3 To circumvent the intra-crystalline mass transfer problem, the partial removal of framework atoms has long been employed to introduce auxiliary porous paths into the inner part of zeolite crystals.4 This can be achieved through either dealumination or desilication,5,6 noting that both dealumination and desilication, as the names indicate, are element-selective methods. A non-biased chemical etching approach, NH4F etching, was also developed by us recently.7 This is a method able to partially dissolve zeolite crystals without changing the framework composition.810 Moreover, the removal of framework atoms always begins from extended and localized grain boundaries.1012 Thanks to these unique advantages, we revealed the mosaic architecture of zeolite crystals,10 and we prepared a house-of-cards-like zeolite by a top-down approach for the first time.11 Such a narrowing of the thickness of the microporous domains shortens the diffusion path length of reactants and products and increases the catalytic performance of zeolites dramatically.
One the other hand, however, the decrease of microporous domain size only improves the accessibility to the domains, but not necessarily the diffusion efficiency in a micropore. Actually, the intrinsic microporosity remains intact when the dissolution of zeolites follows a reverse layer-by-layer mechanism.11 In order to face new industrial challenges, there have been continuous efforts to obtain zeolite materials with enhanced micropore diffusion. Several new zeolite structures with extra-large micropores were obtained,13,14 but none of them offer industrial potential due to cost and low (hydro) thermal stability.
In the present study, we present a simple chemical approach to enhance the pore volume of zeolites and increase the number of active sites accessible to molecules with a kinetic diameter larger than the micropore opening of zeolites. Our approach is based on two key factors: (i) the in situ generation of a small amount of HF2, which extracts both framework cations (Si and Al) and (ii) the dissolution of zeolite crystals starting preferentially from framework weak points, i.e. defect sites.1012 Defects are ubiquitous in crystalline materials. Zeolites, similarly to other crystalline materials, contain structural defects such as vacancies, dislocations, grain boundaries It is known that defect sites in the zeolite framework are prone to retaining coke precursors.11,15 Therefore, defects are often considered to be something that deteriorates the intrinsic zeolite properties. For this reason, the synthesis of zeolites in fluoride media was performed to decrease the number of framework defects.16,17 In fact, crystals are like people: it is the defects in them which tend to make them interesting.18 Indeed, our approach is based on the rational use of existing and generated defects that allow us to obtain zeolite crystals with superior properties.
In the present work, we report a simple and potentially universal strategy for hierarchical zeolite design that highlights the impact of chemically induced defects on a zeolite framework, which make zeolite dissolution go beyond the limit set by the zeolite structure and synthesis conditions. We present the structural descriptors that dictate the dissolution behavior of zeolite crystals leading to materials with a multi-modal pore structure. The feasibility of this approach is exemplified by the treatment of an MOR-type zeolite,19 an essential active component in a number of catalytic reactions, such as carbonylation,2022 conversion of methane into methanol,23 selective conversion of syngas,24 selective catalytic reduction of NOx,25 hydroisomerization26 and others. Besides the 12-membered ring (MR) channel running along the c axis, mordenite contains an 8-MR side pocket that could contribute substantially to its performance.27,28 However this space is not readily accessible due to the minimal diameter of the pore openings.29 Besides, the quasi-one-dimensional channel system of this zeolite is very prone to coking.29 The successful engineering of the micro-environment around the active sites of mordenite can be very informative and useful for the fine-tuning of the structure of other channel-type zeolites.
2. Experimental section
2.1. Oxalic acid and fluoride treatment of mordenite
The parent NH4-form mordenite (MOR, Si/Al = 6.5) was purchased from Zeolyst.10 The acid treatment of MOR was performed as follows; 24 g of the zeolite powder was dispersed in 500 g of 6 wt% aqueous oxalic acid solution and reacted at 90 C for 24 h under stirring (ca. 400 rpm). The solid product was recovered by suction filtration. The sample was washed thoroughly with water and dried at 100 C overnight. This oxalic acid treated sample was named MOR-A.
The method used for fluoride etching of MOR and MOR-A is reported in ref. 10. In a typical experiment, 2.5 g of MOR or MOR-A was dispersed in 40 g of a 40 wt% NH4F aqueous solution and allowed to react. The reaction was carried out at 50 C for 2 min under mechanical stirring and ultrasonication (USC 600 TH, 45 kHz, VWR). The etched products were collected by suction filtration, washed thoroughly with distilled water and allowed to dry at 100 C overnight. The samples derived from MOR and MOR-A, respectively, were labelled as follows: (i) MOR-AF for the NH4F treated sample and (ii) MOR-A-AF for the sample prepared by consecutive oxalic acid and NH4F treatment.
2.2. Characterization methods
X-ray diffraction measurements were performed on an X'pert Pro/PANalytical diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.5418 Å, 45 kV, 40 mA). The samples were studied in the 550 2θ range with a scanning step of 0.0167 s1. Electron micrographs were obtained on a JSM-7900F (JEOL) low-voltage high-resolution scanning electron microscope (SEM) equipped with a field emission gun and a FEI LaB6 TECNAI G2 30UT transmission electron microscope (TEM) operated at 300 kV. Elemental analysis was performed by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) using an OPTIMA 4300 DV (PerkinElmer) instrument. Nitrogen adsorption was performed with a Micromeritics ASAP 2020 automated gas adsorption analyzer. Prior to analysis, the samples were out gassed at 100 C for 1 h and 300 C for 10 h. Specific surface areas were determined using the BET equation applied in the 0.010.06 P/P0 range. The total volume was obtained from the volume of nitrogen adsorbed at P/P0 = 0.97. The t-plot method, applied in the 0.40.8 thickness range, was used to distinguish the micropores from the mesopores in the samples. 27Al and 29Si MAS NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Advance 500 MHZ spectrometer using a 4 mm rotor. The 27Al MAS NMR spectra were recorded at 104.3 MHz with a 12 pulse length of 2.2 μs, a spinning rate of 14 kHz and a recycle delay of 1 s. 1 M Al(NO3)3 was used as a reference for chemical shifts of 27Al. Infrared spectra were recorded using a Nicolet Magna 550-FT-IR spectrometer with 2 cm1 optical resolution. Prior to the measurements, the samples were pressed into self-supporting discs (diameter: 1.6 cm, 17 mg) and preheated in an IR cell attached to a vacuum line at 450 C (2 C min1) for 5 h down to 106 torr. The adsorption of 2,4,6-trimethylpyridine (collidine) was also analyzed at room temperature. After reaching a pressure of 1 torr, the sample was heated at 200 C in a collidine atmosphere for 30210 min to favor the diffusion of collidine inside micropores. After establishing equilibrium under these conditions, the cell was evacuated at increasing temperatures, in steps of 50 C from 50 to 450 C. The amount of collidine adsorbed on the samples after degassing at 250 C was used for the measurement of zeolite acidity. All spectra were normalized to the weight of wafers. The absorption bands at ca. 1637 and 1648 cm1 were used for the quantification of the accessibility of acid sites. The extinction coefficient ε (collidine)16321648 = 10.1 cm μmol1 was used for the estimation of collidine adsorption.30
2.3 Catalytic test
Dealkylation of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene (TiPBz) was performed in a tubular flow reactor operating in the gas phase at atmospheric pressure. For each experiment, 25 mg of the zeolite was loaded in the reactor enclosed between two layers of inert SiC (200400 μm size range). The samples were activated in a dry-air stream (50 mL min1), first at 100 C for 5 h, and then the temperature was raised to 450 C (ramp of 2.5 C min1) which was maintained for 3 h. N2 was subsequently introduced and the reactor was cooled-down to the reaction temperature, 350 C. A stream of 200 mL min1 N2 was diverted to a saturator filled with TiPBz maintained at 71 C (PTiPBz = 180 Pa). A space time of 95 kg s mol1 was used. Stable conditions were established in less than 5 minutes; the first effluent was collected after 5 min, and thereafter at 15 min intervals and analyzed quantitatively on a CPG (VARIAN Cp 3800; HP-Pona 50 m, 0.2 mm, 0.5 μm column) fitted with a FID.
3. Results and discussion
3.1 Defect sites in the zeolite framework induced by oxalic acid leaching
The recent research results of our group showed that the formation of secondary porosity is directly related to the intrinsic structural properties of zeolites.812 Namely, the dissolution behavior of zeolites is preset by zeolite synthesis history. Following this line, a mordenite zeolite (MOR) with an initial Si/Al ratio of 6.5 was treated by using oxalic acid, in order to introduce defect sites in the zeolite framework by selective removal of framework Al atoms.31 The oxalic acid leaching resulted in the removal of ca. 75% of the framework Al. The Si/Al ratio of the acid leached sample, MOR-A, increased to 29.0 (Table 1). Despite the substantial loss of framework aluminum atoms, MOR-A remained highly crystalline and microporous (Fig. 1 and 2A). However, its N2 adsorption isotherm slightly differs from that of the parent zeolite. The isotherm of MOR is type-I(a), characteristic of a microporous material (Fig. 2A and Sl). The N2 isotherm of MOR-A remains type I, but it is closer to type-I(b) (Fig. 2A and Sl) according to the new IUPAC classification of physisorption isotherms.32 The subtle change in the isotherm shape serves, therefore, as the first sign of a change in the microstructure of the zeolite framework, as the occurrence of type-I(b) is an indication of materials with wider micropores and possibly narrow mesopores. The pore size distribution of this sample in the 23 nm range also increases slightly (Fig. 2B). MOR-A shows a total increase of 0.03 cm3 g1 in (Vmic + Vsec) in comparison to MOR (Table 1), noting that the larger micropores and/or small mesopores are difficult to distinguish at this critical 2 nm pore size. Clearly, the removal of framework Al (Table 1) has resulted in the formation of some additional void space, which is large enough for the accommodation of N2 molecules (kinetic diameter: 0.36 nm).
Table 1 Chemical composition, product yield, specific surface area, and porosity data of the parent and modified mordenite samples Samples Si/Ala Si/Alb Yieldc wt% SBETd m2 g1 Sexte m2 g1 Vmice cm3 g1 Vsecf cm3 g1
MOR 6.5 6.8  489 25 0.18 0.06
MOR-AF 6.5  71 490 67 0.17 0.16
MOR-A 29.0 26.5  512 39 0.19 0.08
MOR-A-AF 19.8 20.1 57 558 93 0.19 0.27
a ICP. b EDS. c The weight percentage yield of MOR-AF (71 wt%) and MOR-A-AF (57 wt%) calculated based on the mass of MOR and MOR-A, respectively. d BET surface area. e t-plot. f Vtotal  Vmic (Vtotal: the volume adsorbed at P/P0 = 0.97). MOR: the parent mordenite; MOR-A: the oxalic acid treated mordenite, MOR-AF: the NH4F treated mordenite, MOR-A-AF: the sequential oxalic acid and NH4F treated mordenite.
Fig. 1 XRD patterns of the parent mordenite (MOR), the sample treated with oxalic acid (MOR-A), the sample treated with NH4F (MOR-AF), and the sample treated with oxalic acid and NH4F (MOR-A-AF).
Fig. 2 N2 physisorption isotherms (A) and pore size distribution (B) of MOR, MOR-A, MOR-AF, and MOR-A-AF.
Another proof of the removal of framework Al and the resultant formation of framework vacancies as a result of acid leaching comes from the 27Al and 29Si MAS NMR results (Fig. 3). The quantitative 27Al MAS NMR experiment clearly shows the loss of framework Al caused by acid leaching (Fig. 3A). It also shows that both MOR and MOR-A are free of non-framework Al species. The 29Si MAS NMR spectrum of MOR clearly shows three peaks centered at 99, 105 and 112 ppm (Fig. 3B), which are attributed to the Si(2Al), Si(1Al) and Si(0Al) atoms in the zeolite framework, respectively.33 The Si/Al ratio of this sample determined by the deconvolution of the 29Si MAS NMR spectrum is 6.2, which is quite close to the ICP and EDS analysis results (Table 1). The 29Si MAS NMR spectrum of MOR-A shows only two peaks centered around 104 and 112 ppm (Fig. 3C). The Si/Al ratio of this sample determined by the NMR method is 10.2, which is much lower than the ICP and EDS data (Table 1). Apparently, defect sites assigned to Q3 groups corresponding to nonbonded defects (silanol) are present in the framework of MOR-A. Such signals increase the 104 ppm peak intensity and, as a result, the NMR analysis substantially underestimates the Si/Al ratio of the oxalic acid dealuminated zeolite (MOR-A).34 Fig. 3 The 27Al MAS NMR spectra of MOR, MOR-A, MOR-AF, and MOR-A-AF (A) and the deconvolution of the 29Si MAS NMR spectra of MOR (B) and MOR-A (C).
The structural characteristics of MOR and MOR-A were further studied by IR spectroscopy. For MOR, the bridging hydroxyl groups are characterized by a sharp asymmetric band centered at ca. 3609 cm1 in the ν(OH) region (Fig. 4A). A small IR band at 3746 cm1 representing the silanol groups on the external surface of the zeolite can also be clearly identified (Fig. 4). The number of bridging hydroxyl groups decreases substantially after acid treatment (Fig. 4A). In contrast, the number of internal silanol groups, characterized by an IR band at ca. 3734 cm1, increases obviously upon dealumination (Fig. 4). Besides, there are broad bands in the region of 36503710 cm1 (Fig. 4A, indicated by arrows). These data clearly show that defect sites, most probably in the form of isolated silanol groups, have been introduced into the mordenite zeolite framework as desired.35 Fig. 4 The IR spectra showing the ν(OH) region of MOR, MOR-A and MOR-A-AF: (A) the 30004000 cm1 region and (B) the 36003800 cm1 region highlighting the hydroxyl groups related to defect sites.
SEM observation shows that the MOR zeolite has a particle morphology consisting of intergrown small boulder-like particles (Fig. 5A). These small crystals exhibit a rather homogeneous contrast under a TEM (Fig. 6A), reflecting the absence of mesoporosity. The SEM image of MOR-A shows a very similar aggregative morphology to that of MOR (Fig. 5B). The small particles also show a homogeneous contrast with distinct grain boundaries under TEM observation (Fig. 6B). The dark-to-light contrast, a sign of the presence of intra-particle mesopores, is absent. Apparently, the selective removal of framework aluminum only results in the formation of some localized defect sites that are recorded by IR, NMR and N2 adsorption analysis (Fig. 24), but are difficult to visualize by SEM or TEM analysis.
Fig. 5 The high-resolution low-voltage SEM images of MOR (A), MOR-A (B), MOR-AF (C), and MOR-A-AF (D).
Fig. 6 The TEM images of MOR (A), MOR-A (B), MOR-AF (C), and MOR-A-AF (D and E).
3.2 NH4F etching of MOR and MOR-A
3.2.1 NH4F etching of MOR Treating MOR with NH4F does not change the Si/Al ratio of the sample (MOR-AF, Table 1). This result is in agreement with those in our previous studies performed on MFI, FAU, and FER type zeolites.811 The crystalline characteristics and micropore volume of the zeolite are retained (Table 1 and Fig. 1). There is little increase in the fraction of narrow mesopores (Fig. 2). Furthermore, the surface morphology of MOR-AF (Fig. 5C) looks similar to that of the parent mordenite (Fig. 5A). On the other hand, the NH4F treatment results in a substantial increase in the mesopore volume (Table 1 and Fig. 2). TEM observation reveals the formation of visible cracks in large plate-like zeolite grains (Fig. 6C). We have interpreted such splits as the gradual separation of small crystals from the intergrowth interface.810 Besides the disassembly of the aggregates, some large, isolated intra-particle mesopores are also formed in some crystals (Fig. 7A). While the number of such pores is small at the stage of etching, an extension of NH4F etching from 2 min to 25 min increases the number of mesopores with straight, clear-cut edges substantially (Fig. 7B). These pores are spatially oriented and aligned themselves to the crystallographic axis (Fig. 7B, inset). We attribute the formation of these intra-particle mesopores specifically to the mosaic structures in the zeolite framework, i.e., the selective removal of hidden nano-crystalline domains.10
Fig. 7 Representative TEM images of MOR-AF (A), a mordenite sample prepared by extended NH4F etching of MOR (B), and MOR-A-AF (C and D).
3.2.2 NH4F etching of MOR-A NH4F treatment of MOR-A results in a substantial decrease in the Si/Al ratio (MOR-A-AF, Table 1). This is in sharp contrast to the case of MOR-AF, which shows that it is a consequence of the preliminary oxalic acid etching.
The MOR-A-AF sample remains highly crystalline (Fig. 1). The micropore volume determined using the t-plot is the same as that of the precursor, MOR-A (Table 1). Nitrogen adsorption analysis also revealed that a certain amount of mesoporosity was introduced by the fluoride treatment (MOR-A-AF, Table 1 and Fig. 2). TEM inspection shows that the MOR-A-AF is highly segmented along the interfaces between the crystals building the aggregates (Fig. 6D and E), and the dark-to-light contrast is densely distributed throughout the whole particle volume. This profile contrasts sharply with the intact appearance of MOR (Fig. 6A) and MOR-A (Fig. 6B). Based on a careful comparison of the SEM and TEM images, one can get the impression that the mesopore density in the case of MOR-A-AF is substantially higher than that of MOR-AF (Fig. 5C, D and S2). This visual observation was also quantitatively confirmed by nitrogen adsorption data (Table 1 and Fig. 2). The significant difference in mesoporosity (pore size, density, and morphology) between the MOR-AF and MOR-A-AF samples is even more evident through the comparison of the corresponding isolated fragments. For the MOR-AF samples, only a few mesopores can be observed in the bulk of the separated crystals (Fig. 7A and B). Most of the mesopore sizes are larger than 20 nm along the long direction, while pores with sizes less than 10 nm are rare. In the MOR-A-AF case, the number of mesopores cannot be counted accurately due to the substantially higher mesopore density (Fig. 7C). Also the clear identification of the mesopore periphery is difficult. Based on a careful investigation of the TEM images, however, one can still distinguish between the two types of pores. One type possesses a rectangular periphery or has at least some right angles (indicated with the rectangles in Fig. 7C, and S3A), and the other is generally ill-defined in shape and much smaller in size than the regularly shaped pores (Fig. 7D and S3B).
While the presence of mesopores with rectangular shapes or right angles is considered to be due to the removal of the spatially distributed hidden nano-crystalline domains, the formation mechanism of the much more irregular-shaped and smaller mesopores (Fig. 7D and S3B) is not related with a particular type of growth or structure-related particularity.
3.3 Acid site accessibility: an IR study of pyridine and collidine adsorption
3.3.1 Pyridine adsorption The adsorption of pyridine was conducted at room temperature (RT). The adsorption reached equilibrium within 15 min for all mordenite samples. The kinetic diameter of the probe molecule is 0.57 nm which is much smaller than the 0.7 nm large 12-MR channel of mordenite and thus no diffusion limitation is expected.
The treatment of MOR using NH4F does not change the zeolite acidity. Both MOR and MOR-AF show similar Brnsted and Lewis acidity (Table 2). This is in line with the fact that NH4F etching does not change the Si and Al composition or produce extra-framework Al species (Fig. 3A). It is also a clear indication that the treatment does not change the microporous properties of mordenite. This is in line with our previous observation that the intrinsic microporosity remains intact when the dissolution of the zeolite follows a reverse layer-by-layer mechanism.11 Table 2 Acidity and accessibility of the active sites of the parent and modified mordenite samples measured by IR spectroscopy using pyridine (Py) and collidine (Co) as probe molecules (The unit for the acid amount: μmol g1) Samples Aciditya Acidityb Acidityc Accessibilityd B L B + L Py Co
MOR 2222 992 73 1065 49 48 2
MOR-AF 2222 909 82 991 418 45 19
MOR-A 556 355 157 513 82 92 15
MOR-A-AF 800 422 348 770 326 96 41
a The acidity is calculated on the basis of the Al content by assuming that each Al contributes an acid site. b The Brnsted (B) and Lewis (L) acid amount determined by using pyridine as the probe molecule. c The acid amount determined by using collidine as the probe molecule. d Acid site accessibility was calculated based on the total Al content and the number of acid sites accessible to pyridine and collidine. MOR: the parent mordenite; MOR-A: the oxalic acid treated mordenite, MOR-AF: the NH4F treated mordenite, MOR-A-AF: the sequential oxalic acid and NH4F treated mordenite.
The leaching of MOR using oxalic acid decreases the total number of acid sites substantially, in agreement with the decrease of the aluminum content (Table 1). It is noteworthy that the sum of Brnsted and Lewis acidity is very close to the acid amount calculated based on the Al content (Table 2). If we assume that each Al contributes an acid site, either Brnsted or Lewis type, then it can be speculated that almost all the acid sites in MOR-A are accessible to pyridine. This is in agreement with the previous finding that some of the acid sites in the side pockets of mordenite become accessible upon dealumination.35 MOR-A-AF shows a higher acid site content than MOR-A, in line with its higher Al content. The sum of Brnsted and Lewis acidity is also very close to the acidity calculated based on the Al content (Table 2), indicating that the acid sites are also almost fully accessible to pyridine.
3.3.2 Collidine adsorption The initial adsorption of collidine was also conducted at RT. We observed that this molecule, with a kinetic diameter of 0.74 nm36 which is larger than the pore size of mordenite, could not penetrate easily through the micropores of this zeolite. This can be seen from the fact that the adsorption of collidine on Brnsted acid sites at RT is slow for all mordenites (16371648 cm1 bands, lines RT in Fig. S4). The 3610 cm1 band intensity remains almost unchanged before and after the adsorption of collidine (lines RT in Fig. S4). The adsorbed collidine mainly interacts with the silanol groups (1573 and 16161618 cm1)15 on the external surface of the zeolite (lines RT in Fig. S4). As a result, the amount of collidine adsorbed on the parent mordenite is the lowest due to the poor acid site accessibility and to the limited number of surface silanol groups (Fig. 8A, black solid). The collidine adsorption increases after acid or fluoride etching (Fig. 8A, blue and red solid). The highest amount of collidine is adsorbed after consecutive oxalic acid and fluoride etching (Fig. 8A, pink solid), which is unambiguous proof of the higher accessibility achieved (Table 2).
Fig. 8 (A) The increase of the peak intensity (the integration of 1573, 1617, 1637 and 1648 cm1 bands, see Fig. S4) with time during the adsorption of collidine on mordenite zeolites. (B) The negative peaks show the portion of silanol groups (3745 cm1) and acidic hydroxyl groups (35853610 cm1) that are interacting with physically or chemically adsorbed collidine at the state of steady adsorption (Fig. 8C). (C) IR spectra of collidine adsorbed on the mordenite zeolites at the state of steady adsorption.
After reaching a collidine pressure of 1 torr at RT, the sample was heated at 200 C in the collidine atmosphere until reaching a steady adsorption state. In general, the heating helps the diffusion of molecules with a kinetic diameter close to the zeolite pore. However, the adsorption of collidine on MOR increased only a little after 15 min of activation (Fig. 8A). The comparison of the spectra reveals that the adsorption of collidine on this sample already reached a steady state within 15 min (Fig. 8A, S4A and S5A). The 3610 cm1 band of this sample remains strong (Fig. S4A), and the corresponding collidine absorption band is very weak (Fig. 8C). Obviously, it is difficult for collidine to reach the acidic groups inside the MOR zeolite framework even under activation at 200 C.
The adsorption of collidine on MOR-A increased slightly after activation at 200 C (Fig. 8A, blue open symbol), as the adsorbed collidine mainly interacts with Brnsted acid sites (Fig. S4B and S5B). Interestingly, MOR-A continues adsorbing collidine, slowly but steadily (slope 0.021), until reaching a steady state after 105 min of activation (Fig. 8A). Finally, the 16371648 cm1 band intensity of this sample is higher than that of MOR at the equilibrium adsorption state (Fig. 8C). This information, combined with the fact that the Si/Al ratio of MOR-A is more than 4 times higher than that of MOR (Table 1), shows unambiguously that the oxalic acid leaching improved the diffusion of collidine towards the microporous channels of MOR-A. As a result, much more collidine can be adsorbed on its external surface (Fig. 8B and C). Furthermore, bulky molecules like collidine can penetrate easily and be absorbed in the micropores of MOR-A.
The impact of heating on the sorption of collidine on the MOR-AF and MOR-A-AF samples is much more pronounced. The 16371648 cm1 band intensity of MOR-AF increases sharply after the first 15 min of activation at 200 C (Fig. 8A and S4C), and then the sorption increases continuously (slope 0.072) in the following 75 min (Fig. 8A, red open). The amount of collidine absorbed on MOR-AF at the steady state is 12 times higher than that on MOR (Fig. 8A, red open symbol). The presence of the very strong negative 3610 cm1 band (Fig. 8B), coupled with the presence of the very strong 16371648 cm1 peaks (Fig. 8C), shows clearly that a large portion of the Brnsted acid sites inside the zeolite crystals are perturbed by collidine (Fig. S5C). In the case of MOR-A-AF, the intensity of the 16371648 cm1 bands also increases obviously after heating at 200 C for 15 min (Fig. 8A, S4D and S5D). The sorption of collidine on this sample continuously increases in the next 120 min, with the highest slope (slope 0.123) amongst all samples (Fig. 8A, pink open symbol).
After establishing a steady adsorption state, the collidine was desorbed under vacuum upon increasing the temperature. During this process, the 1573 and 1617 cm1 bands disappear first (Fig. S6). Meanwhile, the 16371648 cm1 bands lose intensity progressively (Fig. S6). Based on the spectra collected after desorption at 250 C (Fig. S6D), the acid amounts of MOR, MOR-A, MOR-AF, and MOR-A-AF were quantified to be 49, 82, 418 and 326 μmol g1, respectively (Table 2). Based on the Si/AlICP ratio, however, the estimated acid amounts of these samples are 2222, 556, 2222 and 800 μmol g1, respectively (Table 2). Accordingly, the portions of acid sites that are accessible for collidine in the case of MOR, MOR-A, MOR-AF, and MOR-A-AF are 2, 15, 19 and 41%, respectively (Table 2). This result highlights the level of accessibility for a bulky molecule such as collidine that could be achieved by oxalic acid, NH4F and combined oxalic acidammonium fluoride treatment. Noticeably, even the acid sites inside the side pockets of MOR-A-AF are accessible to collidine. A strong argument is the asymmetric nature of the negative peaks (3610 cm1, Fig. 8B) in the case of MOR-A-AF. The deconvolution of the negative peak of MOR-A-AF shows that about 40% of acidic hydroxyl groups interacting with collidine are situated in the side pockets, i.e., corresponding to the band at 3590 cm1.
3.4 Defect engineered mesopore formation
The introduction of mesopores in a microporous zeolite crystal requires partial removal of framework atoms. Whatever the post-synthesis method employed, desilication,37 dealumination38 or demetallation,9 the introduction of secondary porosity involves a partial breakage of framework SiOAl and/or SiOSi bonds. The features of the added porosity (pore size, shape, volume, interconnectivity, spatial distribution) are therefore determined by the ease of breaking the TOT bonds.5 The crystallographically imperfect zones are rich in coordination unsaturated or strained framework sites, which bear much higher internal energy and hence are much more vulnerable to chemical attack. Naturally, this serves as the origin for the development, through the partial dissolution of the zeolite framework, of interstitial and intra-particle secondary porosity in the zeolite framework.10 Because of this, the dissolution of mordenite zeolites in NH4F solution results in the formation of inter-particle cracks and intra-crystalline mesopores (Fig. 6 and 7). Specifically, the interface between intergrown crystallites leads to separated nano crystals (Fig. 6CE). And the presence of the hidden mosaic structures allows the engineering of zeolite porosity at the meso size scale, which leads directly to intra-particle mesopore formation (Fig. 7AC). At the same time, this also shows that the primary dissolution behavior of a zeolite crystal has already been preset by zeolite synthesis history.10,11,3941 The acid-leaching induced defects, introduced by oxalic acid extraction of framework aluminium, changed the dissolution behavior of zeolite crystals substantially. This is evidenced by the fact that the mesoporosities of MOR-AF and MOR-A-AF are very different from each other, as revealed by electron microscopy and quantified by high resolution nitrogen physisorption analysis (Fig. 2, 57 and Table 1). Although the removal of framework Al by oxalic acid does not substantially increase the pore volume of the zeolite (Table 1), it results in a remarkable improvement of the inter-/intra-particle adsorption and diffusion of chemical molecules.42 In the present study, this has been demonstrated unambiguously through the collidine adsorption experiment (Fig. 8A).
As a result of the significant presence of framework defects and the substantially improved intra-particle diffusion efficiency, the dissolution of MOR-A is much faster than that of the parent mordenite due to the improved uptake of reactive species and presence of defects that favor the dissolution of the framework. In line with this, the MOR-A is more deeply etched and shows 14% lower product yield than the parent zeolite (Table 1). Also as a result of the improved diffusion and dissolution, more mesopores with a much smaller pore size are formed in the MOR-A-AF sample as compared to the MOR-AF (Fig. 5C, D, 7A, C and D).
Besides, the framework defects left by the selective Al removal function as starting points for framework dissolution. These defects are spatially more accessible and energetically more favorable sites for dissolution. We have observed that the number of internal silanols (3734 cm1 in the OH-IR spectra, Fig. 4) on MOR-A-AF decreased with respect to its precursor, MOR-A (Fig. 4 and S7), which supports our interpretation of the role of defect sites in NH4F etching. We have also analyzed the small and ill-defined pores using a high resolution TEM and found intensive and localized dissolution of the zeolite framework (Fig. 9). Furthermore, the Si/Al ratio of MOR-A-AF decreased (ca. 20) with respect to that of MOR-A (ca. 29) (Table 1). This apparent desilication behavior sharply contrasts the general observations that fluorides, especially concentrated NH4F solutions, remove Si and Al equally from zeolite frameworks.811,43 Hence, the only plausible explanation is that during the NH4F etching of MOR-A, the dissolution starts preferentially at the defect sites left by Al removal, i.e., defect sites that are Si-rich and highly defected by Al extraction. Accordingly, these artificial defects function as independent embryos of small and irregular mesopores, as shown in Fig. 7D and 9. Thanks to the presence of these chemically induced defects, small mesopores can now be conveniently introduced into the framework of nano-sized separate particles that are most likely coherent crystal domains in nature (Fig. 7D).
Fig. 9 A high resolution TEM image of MOR-A-AF demonstrating the presence of a defect-induced mesopore.
The set of our experimental data shows that the formation of mesopores under the present conditions involves two independent and synergistic pathways. The defects already present in MOR lead to the fragmentation of previously aggregated domains and the selective removal of hitherto hidden nano-crystals; this is the so-called mosaic structure of the zeolite.10 The artificial defects introduced by partial removal of framework Al serve as additional sites versatile for the enhanced dissolution of the zeolite structure. Thus by carrying out pretreatment on the as-synthesized zeolite before implementing the intended changes, one can effectively overcome the chemical or structural limitation predefined by zeolite synthesis history. In this way, it allows us to further explore the potential of post-synthesis modification in engineering and designing advanced zeolite materials for various applications.
3.5 Dealkylation of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene on the parent and modified mordenite zeolites
In the dealkylation of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene (TiPBz, kinetic diameter 9.5 Å), a bulky molecule reacting mainly on the external surface of zeolites, MOR shows an initial conversion of 66% followed by a fast deactivation (Fig. 10). MOR-AF samples start with a 10% higher initial conversion than MOR, and the activity stability is substantially improved. Considering that the intrinsic microporosity is not affected by NH4F etching, the improved conversion of TiPBz is therefore attributed to more exposure of the crystal external surface (Table 1) as a result of the decrease of the microporous domain size.
Fig. 10 Conversion of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene as a function of the catalyst time on stream on MOR (open square), MOR-A (solid square), MOR-AF (open circle), and MOR-A-AF (solid circle). T = 350 C, P = 0.101 MPa, W/F0 = 95 kg s mol1.
The initial TiPBz conversion on MOR-A is only about 10% (Fig. 10), although this sample shows almost twice higher collidine acidity than MOR. Apparently, although the acid leaching is helpful for the intraparticle diffusion of pyridine and collidine (Table 2 and Fig. 8A), it is not enough to improve the diffusion of a bulkier molecular such as TiPBz. The drop in the activity is also due to the extraction of aluminium from the external surface of the zeolite.
The initial TiPBz conversion on MOR-A-AF increases to 67% (Fig. 10), more than 6 times higher than that on its counterpart MOR-A, and comparable to that on the parent mordenite. It is worth mentioning that the Al content of the MOR sample is three times higher than that of MOR-A-AF (Table 1). This result suggests that some of the active sites located inside the MOR-A-AF crystals are accessible to TiPBz. These data illustrate the potential of defect-induced dissolution of the zeolite framework to control and improve the catalytic performances of zeolites.
4. Conclusions
An in-depth study of the dissolution behavior of MOR-type zeolite under consecutive oxalic acid and NH4F treatment is carried out. The role of framework defects in the process of formation of inter- and intra-particle mesopores is identified. The interface between intergrowths is a place for fast dissolution that leads to separated crystals or inter-particle mesopore formation, revealing the intrinsic hidden mosaic structures of zeolite crystals. These intrinsic defects allow the engineering of zeolite crystals at the meso scale and fragmentation of zeolite aggregates of their component parts.
The set of experimental data reveals that the extrinsic defects, induced by chemical leaching in oxalic acid, generate a different type of mesoporosity and can be used to control zeolite accessibility and activity at the nanoscale. More precisely, the contribution of the extrinsic defects is twofold. First, they improve the intra-particle diffusion and adsorption of chemicals substantially. Second, the defects themselves serve as the initial points for the preferential dissolution of a zeolite framework. As a result, the dissolution of the defect-containing framework is more efficient and uniform. The resultant hierarchical zeolite shows superior mesoporosity in terms of mesopore distribution and available mesopore volume and thus substantially improved accessibility to the active sites located inside the micropores. Derived catalysts show outstanding catalytic performance in the catalytic conversion of bulky molecules, as exemplified in the dealkylation of 1,3,5-triisopropylbenzene.
Herein, a simple and potentially universal method for post-synthesis zeolite engineering, which makes zeolite dissolution go beyond the limits set by the zeolite structures and synthesis chemistry, is developed. This approach can be extended to other zeolites providing zeolite catalysts and molecular sieves with substantially improved performance.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the hydroxyl anchoring method facilitate the controlled incorporation of active metal compounds in crystal materials, and what are its implications for enhancing metal-support interactions and improving the activity, selectivity, and stability of heterogeneous catalysts in solid-gas reactions?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 