<quotes>
2.2. Catalytic activity tests
Catalytic experiments were carried out using plug flow fixed bed micro reactor. The micro reactor was loaded with 50 mg of catalyst (sieve 0.6-0.3 mm) placed between two plugs of quartz wool. Prior to catalytic experiment, a catalyst was pretreated in a flow of He and oxygen stream at 550 C for 1 h and then cooled to reaction temperature in a flow of pure He, after stabilization of the reaction temperature. He stream was then replaced by a reaction mixture. The ODHP was investigated using feeds containing 1.5 vol % N2O, 1.5 vol % C3H8 (regime RS-1), 3 vol % N2O, 1.5 vol % C3H8 (regime RS-2),or 1.5 vol % N2O and 1.5 vol % C3H8, 0.2 vol % O2 (regime RS-3). In all catalytic experiments the GHSV was maintained at 60,000 h1. The regeneration procedure consisted of 10 or 5 min pulses of O2 at GHSV 30,000 h-1 in each run. The evolution of ODHP with time-on-stream has been followed at 400 C. In a typical experiment the feed reactant stream of constant composition was maintained over the catalysts for 2 h, whereas in reaction-regeneration experiments, the feed mixture was replaced after 10 min of the reaction by oxygen pulses.
The product mixture was analyzed with on-line connected gas chromatograph using mol sieve and HP-PLOT Q capillary column to separate permanent gases followed by detection with TCD; saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons were separated using PLOT Q and DB-VRX capillary columns and detected by FID.
3.1. Performance of ODHP without regeneration
Figures 1 shows the catalytic performance of the Fe-BEA catalysts in the temperature range of 250-550 C. It is clear from the figure that propylene yield depends on particle size of the parent BEA zeolite. Effect of the N2O concentration has been analyzed under reaction regimes RS-1 and RS-2. Increase in N2O concentration resulted in the same propene yields but increased the N2O conversion and decreased the selectivity toward propylene. At higher temperature has been obtained increases in the formation of the molecular oxygen which further accelerates production of the undesired carbon oxides.
Thus, at lower feed concentration of N2O, i.e. at 1:1 feed ratio of reactants (RS-1),formation of carbon oxides is suppressed and the selectivity of ODHP reaction is higher. With both reaction streams increase of temperature would provide decrease in propylene selectivity due to total oxidation of propane to carbon oxides. Nevertheless,comparison of the performance of the catalysts with different particle sizes shown clearly that at higher temperatures the Fe-BEA with nano crystal size display improved catalytic activity as well as propylene yields (see Fig. 1). Increase in the propylene yield indicated over nano-BEA could be probably attributed to the enhancement of the mass transfer of the product in the zeolite porous structure or better utilization of the zeolite channels by the reactant molecules. Thus use of nano-zeolites increases the selectivity of the desired product due to easier desorption of product molecule from the local environment of zeolite channels which prevents pore blocking and over-oxidation.
Figure 2 illustrate the changes in propylene yield with time using pure N2O or N2O/O2 mixture. Use of the N2O alone (RS-1) induce a rapid decrease in the propylene yield,together with decrease of the propane and N2O conversions, probably due to formation of carbonaceous deposits. Experiment under mixed N2O/O2 stream (regime RS-3) shown that presence of a small amount of oxygen does not prevent deactivation of the catalyst but indicate some stabilization of the propylene yields after longer time periods.
3.2. ODHP performance under cyclic reaction-regeneration
Reaction-regeneration studies were carried out with the aim to stabilize the propylene yield for longer periods and prevent the catalyst deactivation. Regeneration of the catalyst was analyzed using a repeated reaction-regeneration periods, with O2 pulse with different time intervals after production periods. Figure 3, gives the propylene yields with periodic elimination of carbon species during 5 or 10 min O2 pulses. Results obtained under such dynamic conditions, combining 10 minutes production and regeneration periods, show effective stabilization of the propylene yields under such process conditions. Using shorter regeneration periods of 5 min would provide a gradual decrease in propylene yield. The complete reaction profile of cyclic reaction- regeneration with 10 min O2 pulse (see Figure 4), evidence stabilization of the catalytic active sites and suppression of the coke formation at 400 C under ODHP reaction.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The study examines the effect of synthesis methods, including steam treatment, solid-state ion exchange, and liquid exchange, on iron-containing ZSM-5 zeolites' performance in the N2O-assisted oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction. Key performance metrics such as C3H8 conversion, N2O conversion, C3H6 selectivity, and C3H6 yield are analyzed under different reaction conditions.

2. The performance of ODHP with good propylene yields is produced at an equilibrium concentration of N2O/propane ratio of 1:1. It is concluded that the equimolar ratio of reactants minimizes the formation of carbon oxides and optimizes the propylene selectivity. Nano-sized catalysts exhibit better C3H6 yields compared to micro-sized catalysts at higher temperatures. Adding a small amount of oxygen stream to the reaction mixture increases N2O and propane conversions but decreases propylene selectivity and increases CO2 formation.

3. Reactivation of the catalysts by oxidation pulses demonstrates full reversibility of the catalyst, indicating that 10-minute pulses are sufficient to regenerate active sites. This leads to the achievement of a stable propylene yield under cyclic reaction-regeneration processes.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究考察了不同合成方法（如蒸汽处理、固体离子交换和液体交换）对含铁ZSM-5沸石在N2O辅助丙烷氧化脱氢反应（ODHP）中的催化性能的影响。关键性能指标包括C3H8转化率、N2O转化率、C3H6选择性和C3H6产率，在不同的反应条件下进行了分析。

2. 在N2O/丙烷摩尔比为1:1的平衡浓度下，实现了ODHP的优良丙烯产率。得出结论，反应物的等摩尔比例可以最小化碳氧化物的形成并优化丙烯的选择性。纳米级催化剂在较高温度下展现出更好的C3H6产率，与微米级催化剂相比。向反应混合物中添加少量氧气流增加了N2O和丙烷的转化率，但降低了丙烯选择性和二氧化碳生成。

3. 催化剂通过氧化脉冲的重新活化证明了催化剂的可逆性，表明10分钟脉冲足以再生活性位点。这导致在循环反应-再生过程中实现了稳定的丙烯产率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
