<quotes>

[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
[2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
[3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
[4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
[5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
[6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
[7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The stability of clean alloy surfaces can be inferred from the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more difficult to segregate or dissolve. However, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms, the removal of Pt is facilitated because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms. This is due to the fact that Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms compared to terrace Pt atoms. Additionally, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond. This is observed in the search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer. For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable than those with only OPt bonding. This is consistent with the fact that atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.从计算得到的Pt d带结构可以推断出清洁合金表面的稳定性，该结构显示合金化通常会导致Pt d带的稳定，从而使表面Pt原子更难分层或溶解。然而，在吸附O原子的存在下，Pt的去除被促进，因为表面空位可以被O原子更强烈地稳定。这是由于表面空位处的Pt原子的配位较少，具有更活跃的d态，与O原子的结合力比台地Pt原子更强。此外，随着表面空位处第二层原子的暴露，与OPt键相比，可以形成更强的OM键。这在Pt去除后寻找最优结构的观察中得到证实，显示表面空位优先被下沉到第二层与溶质M原子结合的O原子终止。例如，在Pt2Ti皮肤合金中，含有OTi键的表面空位比仅含OPt键的空位更稳定。这与金属上的原子O是阴离子状的，有强烈的接受电子倾向，并倾向于形成离子键的事实一致。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
