# Paragraph Topic Extractor and Question Generator

You are an expert in academic writing and text analysis. Your task is to extract the main topic from a given paragraph of an academic review and then generate a single comprehensive question based on that topic. Follow these steps carefully:

1. Read the provided paragraph carefully.
2. Analyze its content to identify the main topic.
3. Formulate a concise topic statement.
4. Based on the extracted topic, create a single comprehensive question that can guide the extraction of detailed information from the paragraph.
5. Translate the question into Chinese.

Output your results in the following XML format:

```xml
<analysis>
  <original_paragraph>
    [Insert the original paragraph here]
  </original_paragraph>
  
  <topic_extraction>
    <step1_initial_thoughts>
      [Provide your initial thoughts about the paragraph's content]
    </step1_initial_thoughts>
    
    <step2_key_concepts>
      [List the key concepts or ideas present in the paragraph]
    </step2_key_concepts>
    
    <step3_topic_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the topic based on the key concepts]
    </step3_topic_formulation>
    
    <extracted_topic>
      [State the extracted topic in a clear, concise manner]
    </extracted_topic>
  </topic_extraction>

  <question_generation>
    <step1_question_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the question based on the extracted topic]
    </step1_question_formulation>
    
    <generated_question>
      <english>[Present the final version of your generated question in English]</english>
      <chinese>[Present the Chinese translation of the generated question]</chinese>
    </generated_question>
  </question_generation>
</analysis>
```

Remember to:
- Be thorough in your analysis and explanation.
- Ensure that the extracted topic accurately represents the main idea of the paragraph.
- Create a single, comprehensive question that can elicit detailed information about the topic from the paragraph.
- Use academic language appropriate for the field of study.
- Provide both English and Chinese versions of the generated question.

<file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraphs.txt"> 
<Paragraphs>
4. Metal-Hierarchical Zeolite Materials
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Hierarchical zeolite combines the intrinsic micropores of zeolites with an auxiliary mesoporous/macroporous network, which achieves enhanced micropore accessibility (mesopores/macropores) without sacrificing the intrinsic confinement effect (micropores). (144) For the PDH reaction, the reported hierarchical molecular sieves include mesoporous zeolites prepared via desilication or self-assembly, the 2D/layered zeolites synthesized via bifunctional surfactants, and pillared zeolites synthesized using TPAOH and TBPOH as cotemplates (Figure 7a–c).
Wang et al. (58) reported the construction of a hierarchical structure on commercial ZSM-5 zeolites through the desilication method. The alkali treatment with various NaOH concentrations produces mesoporous structures to varying degrees, which impacts the specific surface areas and pore volumes. Specifically, the ZSM-5 (1.0) sample (treating parent ZSM-5 with 1 M NaOH) possesses a surface area of 406 m2·g–1 and pore volume of 0.41 cm3·g–1, which are much larger than those of the parent ZSM-5 (257 m2·g–1 and 0.15 cm3·g–1 respectively). Under the same testing conditions, PtSn supported on hierarchical ZSM-5 exhibits an initial propane conversion of ∼50% and propylene selectivity of 95%, which are much higher than those of the counterpart with parent microporous ZSM-5 (∼30% propane conversion and ∼65% propylene selectivity). The self-assembly is another efficient strategy to build hierarchical zeolites, which can be achieved via enwrapping zeolite crystals with the OMS through stepwise synthesis. Li et al. (63) synthesized a series of TS-1@SBA-16 composites by adding as-synthesized TS-1 crystals to the synthesis precursor of SBA-16 materials. Compared to Pt-SnOx/TS-1, the hierarchical Pt-SnOx/TS-1@SBA-16 possesses a higher surface area and weaker acidity, thus greatly improving the stability of the catalyst. Compared to Pt-SnOx/SBA-16, the introduction of 10% TS-1 not only enhances the concentration of acid sites but also strengthens the Pt-support interactions, which contributes to the stabilization of Pt0 and SnOx species toward superior PDH performance. The excessive TS-1 additions (20%) cause the destruction of the three-dimensional pore structure of SBA-16, which is unfavorable for PDH performance. The optimized Pt-SnOx/10%TS-1@SBA-15 catalyst exhibits an initial propane conversion of ∼54.5% and was still as high as 52.4% after four reaction-regeneration cycles.
Ryoo (38) developed [C18H37]-N+(Me)2-C6H12–-N+(Me)2-C4H9]Br2– as a micro-/mesoporous dual-functional structure-directing agent, leading to the formation of hierarchical Ga-MFI zeolites. The post degallation (deGa) process produces purely siliceous hierarchical MFI zeolites with abundant silanol nests. The silanol nests allow the rare-earth elements (La, Ce, and Y) to exist as high-chemical potential single-atom species, which can diffuse onto Pt species to produce the Pt-rare earth intermetallic alloys during thermal treatment (Figure 7d). Note that the formation of Pt-rare earth alloys from conventional rare earth oxides is not feasible because they are hard to be reduced to a metallic state. The alloyed PtLa, PtCe, and PtY structures and the hierarchical pores effectively contribute to the PDH performance and stability. Under a high propane WHSV of 11 h–1 (no diluted gas), the optimized Pt3La intermetallic alloys on hierarchical zeolites exhibit an initial propane conversion of ∼40% (close to the equilibrium conversion), and the conversion remains >8% after 30 days of reaction. In comparison, the propane conversion was ∼22% and soon dropped to below 5% within 1.5 h on the microporous MFI catalyst with the same Pt/La loadings (Figure 7e). This work highlights the effect of silanol nests on the formation of single atom rare-earth species, which is the key to producing Pt-rare earth alloys. However, this Pt-rare earth alloy synthesis procedure is cumbersome that requires multisteps (hydrothermal, demetalation, impregnation, calcination, and reduction) and the use of explosive HNO3 reagent. To address this issue, Ryoo’s group (60) developed the direct synthesis of hierarchical MFI zeolites with abundant silanol nests. Similarly, well-defined PtY alloys were formed on the directly synthesized hierarchical zeolites. For the direct synthesis process, the sodium-free condition is highly important for generating silanol nests, and the use of different templates could also affect the formation of silanol nests to some extent. The minor NaCl causes a substantially decreased silanol concentration. As a result, the silanol nests effectively promote the Pt–Y alloying effect, which improves the catalyst lifetime from 1 day to 20 days.
It is noted that the PtY on hydrothermal-synthesized hierarchical zeolites show a superior catalytic lifetime than the counterparts with the above-mentioned deGa hierarchical supports, which can be attributed to the higher silanol concentration in former cases. (38,60) After optimizing the Pt and Y loadings, the PtY(1)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibits outstanding catalytic stability with an initial propane conversion of ∼45% that lasted for 30 days. Pan et al. (146) reported the synthesis of hierarchical TS-1 zeolites assembled by ultrathin (∼ 3 nm) nanosheets using hexanediamine and [C18H37]-N+(Me)2-C6H12-N+(Me)2-C4H9]Br2– as cotemplates. The zeolitic nanosheets provide high external surface areas and abundant isolated silanol/titanol (Si-OH/Ti-OH) groups, which helps strengthen the Pt-support interactions to promote the Pt dispersion. Moreover, the TS-1 nanosheets are rich in external (isolated) Si-OH/Ti-OH groups instead of internal (confined) Si-OH/Ti-OH species in conventional bulk zeolites, which contributes to weaker acidity. Besides, it was also found that the Pt dispersion on the hierarchical TS-1 support depended on synthesis methods, which follow the sequence of electrostatic adsorption method > solvent evaporation method ≫ incipient wetness impregnation. (146)
Similar to the ligand-assisted synthesis of metal-containing bulk zeolites, the addition of metal precursor in the synthesis of hierarchical zeolites also produces encapsulated metal species. Recently, Ji et al. (62) reported the incorporation of Fe species within S-1 framework can lead to a hierarchical-like morphology for the Fe-S-1 catalyst. The time-resolved 2,3-dimethylpyridine (DMPyr)-DRIFT experiments indicate a faster diffusion efficiency on hierarchical-like catalysts than bulk counterparts. The Si-OH-Fe hydroxyl groups help produce isolated Pt sites as evidenced by AC-HAADF-STEM images and XAFS and CO-DRIFT measurements. DFT calculations reveal the isolated Pt sites in the ≡Si–O–Pt–O–Fe≡ moiety show a lower propylene desorption energy compared to the Pt 111 slab. Moreover, the former case also exhibits a higher barrier for propylene overdehydrogenation. The faster propylene desorption and limited overdehydrogenation help achieve high propylene selectivity and catalytic lifetime. The optimized Pt/Fe-3 catalyst obtains a propane conversion of 39.2% and a propylene selectivity of 96.2% with using undiluted propane reactants and a high propane WSHV of 17 h–1, and no obvious deactivation was detected after 3 days reaction. Zhang et al. (61) designed a novel fin zeolite by using TPAOH and 1,8-diaminooctane as dual-templates. The 30–60 nm finned S-1 crystals epitaxially grew on the surface of bulk S-1 seeds, and PtZn clusters were encapsulated in the S-1 fins with the assistance of ethylenediamine. In particular, the authors reveal that the propane diffusion rate in the PtZn@S-1-Fin catalyst (fin size is 30–60 nm) is 1.4- and 1.7-fold higher than that in PtZn@S-1-200 (200 means crystal size of 200 nm) and PtZn@S-1-400 based on the intelligent gravimetric analyzer. Therefore, it was concluded that finned zeolites combine the advantages of short diffusion length, high crystallinity, and high surface permeability. The optimized PtZn@S-1-Fin catalyst exhibits a propylene productivity of ∼15 molC3H6·molPt–1·s–1 at a high propane WHSV of 180 h–1, which is superior to the reference catalysts with propylene productivity of 9–12 molC3H6·molPt–1·s–1. Choi et al. (111) synthesized the hierarchical gallosilicate MFI zeolites via a one-pot hydrothermal method using 3-mercaptopropyl-trimethoxysilane (MPS) and TPAOH as mesoporous and microporous templates, respectively. The MPS additions improve the total surface area and mesoporous pore volumes while not significantly altering the micropore volumes. The hierarchical Ga-MFI catalysts possess lower concentrations of Bronsted acid sites and more Lewis acid sites, with significant concentrations of strong Lewis acid sites. The catalyst with more MPS additions possesses stronger Lewis acid sites and smaller Bronsted acid/Lewis acid ratios, leading to an improved PDH performance. The same group (39) further reported the encapsulation of well-defined Pt1Zn1 and Pt3Ga1 alloys within hierarchical MFI zeolites through a one-step hydrothermal process using [C18H37]-N+(Me)2-C6H12-N+(Me)2-C4H9]Br2– as a template. The as-obtained catalyst contains a layered nanosheet structure, leading to a large external surface area with an increased number of isolated silanols. This helps improve the reducibility of Zn and Ga oxide species to facilitate the formation of intermetallic compound-type alloys. With the same Pt and Zn/Ga loadings, the hierarchical catalysts exhibit superior PDH activity especially for catalytic stability compared to the counterparts with microporous MFI zeolites and mesoporous γ-Al2O3, MCM-48, and silica supports.
The hierarchical S-1 zeolites with a pillared structure could be synthesized using TBPOH and TPAOH as dual templates. (59) The hierarchical S-1 zeolites possess higher surface silanols compared to their bulk counterparts, which effectively enhances the metal–support interactions. This contributes to the higher dispersion and electron density over Pt sites, leading to an enhanced PDH performance. Specifically, the Pt/hierarchical S-1 catalyst exhibits a higher Pt-related TOF of 1112.2 h–1 than the catalyst with bulk S-1 supports (TOF is 157.6 h–1). Qin et al. (147) compared the effect of different synthesis procedures (top-down and bottom-up) on the physicochemical properties of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolites. The hydrothermally synthesized ZNS (using C22H45-N+(CH3)2-C6H12-N+(CH3)2-C6H13 as templates) possess relatively larger mesoporous (external) surface area and pore volume but smaller microporous surface area and pore volume. In comparison, the NH4F or NaOH etching of bulk ZSM-5 crystals also produces mesopores with a sacrificing part of the micropores. Notably, the NH4+ species could preferentially extract the misoriented nanocrystalline domains followed by the uniform dissolution of the remaining part of the zeolite crystals, while conventional NaOH etching did not exhibit such a preferential property. The NH4F-treated zeolites possess a house-of-cards-like morphology containing large rectangular cavities surrounded by thin (15–30 nm), flat, and highly crystalline walls. Meanwhile, NH4F treatment did not alter characteristic features including SAR, Bronsted/Lewis acidity, and high crystallinity compared to parent bulk zeolite. This contributes to the improvement of mesoporous (external) surface area and the accessibility of metal sites within zeolite. Kim et al. (110) reported the synthesis of hierarchical S-1 zeolites via a hydrothermal bottom-up procedure. Specifically, the tetrabutylammonium hydroxide (TBAOH) template leads to the formation of self-pillared pentasil (SPP) S-1 zeolites, and the long-chain diquaternary ammonium C22-N+-C6-N+-C6Br2 results in the layered S-1 zeolites. The SPP S-1 and layered S-1 zeolites were formed by repetitive crystal twinning and exhibit a stacked nanosheet morphology with a hierarchical structure. The SPP Ga-MFI and layered Ga-MFI catalysts exhibit larger surface area, mesoporous volume, and stronger acidity compared to conventional bulk Ga-MFI catalyst. The diffusion limitations were ruled out based on the Weisz-Prater criterion. The activity evaluation shows that propane conversion, Ga-related TOF, and propylene selectivity over hierarchical catalysts (SPP Ga-MFI and layered Ga-MFI) are respectively increased by ∼100–500%, 180–500%, and 10–100% compared to bulk Ga-MFI catalyst. The superior activity on SPP and layered Ga-MFI was due to their quasi-2D morphology, which achieves a closer distance between Lewis acid sites and Bronsted acid sites than the 3D distributed active sites in the bulk zeolites, thus effectively promoting the Lewis-Bronsted synergistic PDH toward more efficient propane activation. The addition of MPS in the synthesis precursor of hierarchical catalysts further improves the PDH activity, but this improvement was not related to the catalysts’ acidity instead of porous and acid structures.
5. Summary and Perspectives
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, the large surface area and ordered porous structure of molecular sieve materials provide grand opportunities to optimize the amount and coordination environment of reactive sites, which have attracted growing attention in PDH. This review focuses on the synthesis and structure–activity relationships of metal-molecular sieve PDH materials. Future perspectives remain:
5.1. Alternative Efficient Catalysts Based on Hierarchical Zeolite Support
Encapsulating of a subnanometric or single-site active center within zeolites is one of the hottest topics in the PDH area because the strong confinement effect prevents metal/oxide species from sintering and leaching. (17,20,21,23,24,37,62,84,103,107) On the other hand, the subnanometric pores of zeolites may cause diffusion limitations especially for the cases with a large granular size and small pore size (≤8-ring, comparable or smaller than the propane molecular size of 0.47 nm (86)). (148,149) In this context, although several FAU and CHA topologic zeolite-based materials were developed for the PDH reaction, (57,108,109) the diffusion limitations and their effect on activity/selectivity should be carefully checked. The diffusion limitations could be evaluated via the Weisz-Parter criterion, intelligent gravimetric analyzer, probe-DRIFT spectra, etc. (61,62,93) The high temperature of the PDH reaction makes the quantitative determination of the diffusion coefficient under reaction conditions difficult. One recent study employs theoretical force-field molecular dynamics (FFMD) simulations to indicate the propane molecules have no obvious diffusion limitations in typical MFI (S-1) and BEA (Si-Beta) topological zeolites. (150) In contrast, the diffusion of C4 molecules (isobutane and isobutene) inside the S-1 framework exhibits certain constraints. Moreover, DFT calculations also reveal that the C–H cleavage in isobutane requires a higher barrier than that in propane due to the steric effect of the iso-C4H9* intermediates.
The hierarchical zeolites combine the advantages of fast diffusion of mesopores and the confinement of micropores, which provides a viable pathway to construct efficient PDH catalysts. As summarized in Figure 2 and Table 1, researchers have developed a set of promising Pt-hierarchical zeolite catalysts which obtain impressive propylene selectivity and catalytic lifetime at thermodynamic conversion. (38,39,60−62) In the past decade, there is a significant progress of the Pt-free catalysts in PDH performance. Both industrially relevant propylene productivity and selectivity can be obtained using several promising Co/Zn-based molecular sieve systems, (91−93,99,150) while the typical lifetime of these systems is still inferior to Pt-based systems, especially the Pt-hierarchical zeolite catalysts. In this regard, further developments in performance can be expected via the construction of alternative Co/Zn-based hierarchical zeolites.
5.2. The Identification of Actual Reactive Site and PDH Mechanism
Compared to the superficial active sites on metal-oxide supports, the visualization and characterization of the active site microstructure within a molecular sieve matrix are more challenging. Moreover, the dynamic evolution of active sites during pretreatment or the PDH reaction has been reported in several metal-molecular sieve systems, (25,35,84,88,91,93,95,97,104,108) which further brings difficulty to identify the actual reactive site and PDH mechanism. Revealing the actual active site locations, the metal/oxide-molecular sieve interfaces, and the reaction mechanisms under reaction conditions requires advanced characterizations including iDPC-STEM images, in situ spectroscopy with well-designed atmosphere, and two-dimensional soild-state NMR microscopy. (23,25,35,91,93,97,151) In addition to experimental efforts, DFT calculation is another powerful technique for identifying the active site evolution and reaction network. In particular, the ab initio metadynamics simulations can screen the potential reactions between active center and given reactants, which is different from the conventional transition state calculations that typically predefined a reaction pathway. (152,153) Therefore, it is expected that the advanced metadynamics simulations may help explore the potential active centers and the reaction mechanisms.
For the aluminosilicate zeolites, the framework Al species produce Bronsted acid sites. The Bronsted acid sites were generally considered as undesired species since they catalyze overdehydrogenation of propylene products toward decreased propylene selectivity, (107) while several studies also report the promotional effect Bronsted acidity in terms of the enhanced propane adsorption/activation and metal–support interactions. (52,85,86) Notably, the Lewis-Bronsted synergetic effect was widely identified in Ga-ZSM-5 systems, (88,135−137) where the Bronsted protons could facilitate the formation of more reactive [GaH]2+ sites and the H2 elimination. (135) In short, the complete functions of surface acid sites should be carefully explored in Al-containing systems, not limited to the negative effect as undesired sites for C–C cracking. (7)
5.3. Industrial Application
Although great progress in activity has been achieved in metal/oxide-molecular sieve catalysts, the regeneration capacity of catalysts still remains a challenge for industrial application. In the air calcinated regeneration procedure, the reactions between O2 and coke (CxHy species) would inevitably produce steam which may induce sintering, leaching, and restructuring of active sites. For Al-containing molecular sieve materials, the hydrolysis of framework Al species was also essential in evaluating the catalysts’ regeneration stability. (154) The irreversible or faster deactivation after a few regeneration cycles has been reported for several molecular sieve systems, which is because of the aggregation and loss of active sites. (17,23,90,92,105) Reducing the zeolite crystal size is a promising pathway to improve regeneration (hydrothermal) stability. (154) Besides, the introduction of alkali metal ions to form multimetal/oxide active sites is another viable pathway to improve the regeneration capacity, as validated in MgO-ZnOx/S-1 and PtZn4@S-1-Cs systems. (23,92)
Apart from acting as supports, the MFI and CHA topologic zeolites were reported to show H2-permeable capacity at the PDH reaction window. The selective removal of H2 products potentially improves the propylene yield from the reaction engineering aspect. (155−157) For example, Kim et al. designed hybrid Pt-MFI zeolite membrane catalysts, which achieve the high-temperature PDH reaction along with H2 removal. The permeation experiments indicate the H2/C3H8 separation factor increases with higher temperature and reaches >3 at 600 °C. (155) On the other hand, the undesired cracking and coke reactions would be also accelerated under the H2-deficient atmosphere. (158) In this context, integrating a H2-permeable membrane and appropriate active species is promising for improving the propylene yield in industrial applications. Potential active species for this technology are Pt and Co, which show higher propylene selectivity and anticoking capacity compared to other elements as summarized in Tables 1–2. Moreover, future H2-permeable membrane PDH technology should carefully optimize the H2-permeable levels, which not only assess the thermodynamic advantages due to H2 removal but also consider the cracking and coking reactions in H2 deficient conditions. (158)
In addition to activity, the cost and toxicity of catalysts were also crucial for industrial applications. Thus, the development of green and low-cost methods for the synthesis of efficient molecular sieve-based catalysts is always an endless story. The solvent-free and template/ligand-free strategies are promising for potential large-scale production. (159,160) The calcination atmosphere is another important factor to affect the microstructure of active sites. (23,76,96,123) Considering the catalysts typically require H2 prereduction prior to PDH reaction, the H2 direct reduction strategy is a promising process compared to conventional air calcination in terms of cost (energy) savings, as well as improving metal dispersion. (23,76,96)
</Paragraphs>
</file-attachment-contents>
