Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion (Quote 1). This is a marked improvement over traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene (Quotes 2, 3). Incorporating La and Y with Pt into the mesoporous zeolite enhances the dispersion of Pt nanoparticles, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime (Quote 5). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quotes 6, 7). The critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles contributes to the high PDH catalytic performance (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts and its implications for optimal design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better catalytic performance. These findings suggest that optimal catalyst design should consider pore structure characteristics to minimize coke formation and improve overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke yields. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). Understanding these relationships is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, demonstrating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Factors such as catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions contribute to the variability in DHP performance. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. ZSM-5, Beta, and SBA-15, with distinct pore geometries, were studied to assess the intrinsic influence of pore geometry on DHP. The superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange sites and complemented by their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better handle coke. Most modification methods enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite enhances coke accommodation, improves catalytic performance, and stabilizes the catalyst. The hierarchical-pores allow for better coke migration from active metal to the support, promoting propane conversion. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and reduced coke deposits compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, facilitating coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores significantly modify ZQ's acidity, making hydrocarbons less prone to forming multiple carbon-metal bonds, enhancing coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influences coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in sinusoidal 10R channels exhibit high stability, even at high temperatures, due to a few additional tin atoms. Their structural features, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves nanoparticle dispersion and catalytic lifetime, as evidenced by the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced PDH performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance and is a promising support for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting reactant accessibility. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in catalysts reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These insights suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke yield decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The impact of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to limit coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "The pore structure's characteristics, including size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, significantly impact coke formation and catalyst performance in PDH reactions. Hierarchical pores in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke amounts are beneficial. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly boosts performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to high-acidity ZSM-5. This modification decreases acid content, promotes surface properties, and improves coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke migration from active metals to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and active sites. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke resistance and accommodation, crucial for optimal catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enable high stability and robustness of PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, suggesting a relationship between pore structure and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation, indicating that optimal catalyst design should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters enhances stability in H2 at high temperatures, and the structural features of PtSn clusters, as determined by advanced characterization techniques, provide a significantly lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, traditionally used in PDH, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including increased activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The presence of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function, while surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, further boosting performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, affected by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from metal to support and modifying platinum's electronic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke yields. This is exemplified by the comparison of 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0% wt/wt coke at TOS = 160 min) to 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5% wt/wt), illustrating the direct correlation between pore size and coke accommodation, crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Among micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials, activity decreases with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better catalytic stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt-supported zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures to be hierarchical decreases support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores in supports lead to Pt catalysts with better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke amounts are beneficial. Unexpectedly good performance can result from the transfer of coke from metal to support, especially when total cokes increase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable coke precursor migration from metal to support, stabilizing active sites and promoting Pt oxide reduction. This results in increased conversion, selectivity, and resistance to coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influences coke formation and catalyst performance. PtSn clusters' stability over time and at high temperatures is crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Structural features of these clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of pore structure in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina are used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, durability, and selectivity. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite enhances nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting catalyst activity. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability in PDH reactions, highlighting the importance of pore structure. The introduction of Cs+ ions further boosts regeneration stability, underscoring the critical role of pore characteristics in PDH catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, improving catalyst efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with enhanced coke accommodation and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated using a TEOM reactor. Results showed decreasing activity with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 having the highest propane conversion. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Pt particle size is crucial for DHP performance, and pore sizes increase from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites and pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large pores reduce contact and catalytic efficiency. Pore geometry plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite similar Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total coke amounts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to high-acidity ZSM-5 zeolite. This modification decreases acid content, promoting surface properties and enhancing coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke migration from active metal to the support, reducing external surface coke deposits. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing easier migration of coke precursors to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves selecting pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters are stable in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, and their structural features, determined by a few additional tin atoms, provide a lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH performance, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing high initial conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. This enhancement is attributed to the unique structure of the zeolite support and the strong metal-support interactions, leading to improved catalyst dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation, accommodation, and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This can cause sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These insights suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke yield decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to factors like composition, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry contribute to the superior performance of Pt supported zeolites. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting performance. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structures significantly influence coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, improves surface properties, and significantly enhances coke accommodation capacity. This modification leads to better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and reduced deactivation compared to ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, as evidenced by lower coke deposits on PtSnNa/ZQ. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior catalytic performance and stability in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke and maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters' structural features, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days, as shown in Fig.2. This zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, provides facile reactant and product diffusion, stabilizing Pt nanoparticles and enhancing catalytic lifetime more than tenfold compared to alumina-supported PtSn catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, affected by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores boosts stability and propylene selectivity, with Cs+ ions further enhancing regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, underscoring the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0 wt%) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6 wt%) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7 wt%) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5 wt%). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry, enhancing catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to include hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, and most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to the transfer of coke from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, faces issues due to high acidity, leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite mitigates these issues by decreasing acidity and enhancing surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation capacity. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior catalytic performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation to propene, with enhanced conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for accommodating coke more effectively, resulting in a catalyst with better resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the role of pore structure in accommodating structural changes. The structural features of PtSn clusters, determined by in situ extended X-ray absorption fine structure, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy, and CO infrared data, contribute to a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion and stability, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. Surface silanol nests in the zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, improving coke tolerance and catalytic performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, enhancing coke resistance and overall efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as exemplified by 3% Pt-SiO2 showing the lowest coke amount (5.5% wt/wt at TOS = 160 min) compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. Pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry contribute to the superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. The pore geometry of support materials is crucial for deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Pore structure significantly impacts coke formation in PDH reactions. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to be hierarchical decreases acidity, reducing coke on metals and enhancing support capacity. Smaller pores on microporous supports yield better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Most modifications boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with increased total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite reduces acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction process. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke resistance and accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters. These clusters' stability and selectivity, enhanced by the addition of tin atoms, suppress catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that maximize selectivity, stability, and minimize coke formation, as evidenced by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina traditionally used in PDH rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. Surface silanol nests in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote [2]). Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores (Quote [5]). The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial (Quote [1]). During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite improves stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels enhances catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. This modification of electronic properties by tin is key to improving overall catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The role of acidity in this context is less clear due to the limiting effect of pore size on coke amount. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Smaller pores in Pt-ZSM-5 enhance propane conversion and selectivity compared to Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, despite higher coke formation. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability with less coke. Pt-ZSM-5 outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability, despite more coke. Three-dimensional microporous supports like ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Pt particle size is critical for activity, selectivity, and stability. ZSM-5, Beta, and SBA-15, with distinct pore geometries, were studied to assess pore geometry's intrinsic impact on DHP. Zeolite-supported Pt catalysts perform better due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke formation. Zeolite-supported Pt catalysts outperform mesoporous SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and similar particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Microporous supports yield Pt catalysts with superior selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation capacity. This modification leads to better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and promotes the reduction of Pt oxides, stabilizing active sites. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposit on the external surface compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, and the catalyst demonstrates better resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures. This unique pore structure plays a critical role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, crucial for maintaining high selectivity and stability. Careful design of catalyst support pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability is essential for optimal catalysts. Notably, the stability of PtSn clusters in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, determined by a few additional tin atoms, contributes to a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while preserving high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances metal nanoparticle dispersion and reactant/product diffusion, improving catalytic performance. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves nanoparticle dispersion, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Surface silanol nests in the zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y, critical for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, making active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, further impacting activity and accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure significantly boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. The addition of tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, improving coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, enhancing coke resistance and catalytic efficiency. Detailed implications for optimal catalyst design are not extensively discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller pores leading to reduced coke yield. This is evident when comparing catalysts with different pore sizes, where those with smaller pores exhibit lower coke amounts. The relationship between pore size and coke formation has direct implications for designing effective catalysts, as optimizing pore size can enhance catalyst performance by controlling coke accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly affects activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation using a TEOM reactor on micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed decreasing activity with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with lower coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites are attributed to factors like catalyst compositions and Pt particle size. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry, unlike SBA-15's large cylindrical pores, leading to lower catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation. Smaller micropores enhance selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke. Transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, improves surface properties, and significantly enhances coke accommodation capacity. This modification leads to better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and a significant promotion in catalytic performance. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for the enhanced coke accommodation, resulting in a catalyst with better resistance against coke formation. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior performance and stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports PtSn clusters, accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures over extended periods, are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters, stabilized by a few additional tin atoms, exhibit lower deactivation rates and high intrinsic catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion (Quote 1). Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quotes 2, 3). Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime more than tenfold (Quotes 4, 5). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quotes 6, 7). This highlights the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and the potential of hierarchical pore structures in designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote 2). Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. Pore plugging leads to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites, deactivating catalyst particles (Quote 5). The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial (Quote 1, 6). Coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure (Quote 7). A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, impacting macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences performance, as demonstrated by enhanced stability and propylene selectivity when subnanometer PtZn clusters are confined within S-1 zeolite. This confinement boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions further stabilizes regeneration cycles without affecting activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies the electronic properties of platinum, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency. The literature suggests these relationships are key to designing effective catalysts but does not detail the design implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. This is evident in the comparison of catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5), where the coke amount (%wt/wt at TOS = 160 min) decreases with smaller pore sizes. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly affects activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated using a TEOM reactor. Activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. The size of Pt particles is crucial for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate better coke accommodation. Modification methods often boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on supports can improve performance due to coke transfer from metal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management, whereas ZQ's modified pore structure decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, enhancing coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors from active metals to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and active sites, which benefits PDH reactions. Sn oxides in Pt catalysts weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support's external surface. The large pores anchor platinum particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. The modified acidity of ZQ makes hydrocarbons less prone to forming multiple carbon-metal bonds, enhancing coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters, even at high temperatures over extended periods, suggest that careful engineering of pore structures can minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability, essential for optimal catalyst design. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, traditionally used in PDH, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing surface silanol nests, enables atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, significantly improving PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, further impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to limit coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation than Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals. On supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions compete with dehydrogenation, affecting performance. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Modifying catalyst support pore structures, particularly by introducing hierarchical pores, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation, enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve PDH selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, while appropriate modifications increase activity, selectivity, and decrease coke amounts, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, addressing the limitations of high-acidity ZSM-5 zeolite. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit enhanced propane conversion and stability, with coke deposits migrating from active metal to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, leading to improved catalytic performance and lower deactivation rates compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, facilitating coke precursor migration to the support's external surface. The presence of large pores anchors platinum particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. These findings highlight the importance of pore structure in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are essential for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the structural features of PtSn clusters, which are revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    