Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion, resulting in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles, formed throughout the zeolite support, show slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. The unique pore structure and the addition of REEs to the zeolite support are critical for optimal PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite improves stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels enhances catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes in catalysts like 3% Pt-SiO2 result in lower coke yields compared to larger pore sizes in 3% Pt-Al2O3, 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, and 3% Pt-SBA-15. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke formation and optimizing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries outperform SBA-15, possibly due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large pores in SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods typically increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly boosts performance as total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ shows better propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, promoting the migration of coke precursors to the support and reducing carbon-metal bonds, thus enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite exhibit high stability in H2 over extended periods, even at high temperatures, due to a few additional tin atoms. The structural features of platinum-tin clusters, determined by advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into Pt nanoparticles on a mesoporous zeolite support, characterized by ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, dramatically improves PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibit enhanced catalytic lifetime, with a high initial propane conversion rate and slow deactivation over 30 days. This performance enhancement is attributed to the unique structure of the zeolite and the strong metal-support interactions that stabilize the nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This can cause sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The introduction of Cs+ ions further improves regeneration stability, underscoring the importance of pore characteristics in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings have implications for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. This is evident in the comparison of 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0% coke) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6%) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7%) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5%). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Evaluation using micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials, like Pt-ZSM-5, are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. These findings highlight the crucial role of pore geometry in deriving optimal catalytic properties for supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better manage coke. Modification methods often enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, while the transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. By reducing acidity and improving surface properties, ZQ supports better coke management and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion, selectivity, and resistance to deactivation, with less coke deposit, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration from metal to support, stabilizing active sites and promoting Pt oxide reduction. This results in a catalyst with enhanced coke accommodation capacity and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates the structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures. This accommodation is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the PtSn clusters' stability in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures. The structural features of these clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The unique pore structure of these zeolites, combined with the stabilization effect of REE oxides, leads to a striking improvement in PDH catalytic performance, as evidenced by the slow deactivation and high initial propane conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the catalyst support's pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure and causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold. This results in increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites, deactivating catalyst particles.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore structure significantly affecting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, improving catalyst efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with enhanced coke accommodation and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3 and 3% Pt-SBA-15. The role of acidity in coke formation is less straightforward, as its effect is intertwined with pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability compared to Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like ZSM-5 are more effective for DHP than SBA-15 due to their intrinsic properties that enhance Pt site catalytic performance. Factors such as catalyst composition and Pt particle size also impact DHP performance. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15, with distinct geometries affecting DHP differently. Zeolite-supported Pt catalysts outperform SBA-15, likely due to active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry. Large pores in SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a critical role in optimizing the catalytic properties of supported metals, with side reactions competing with dehydrogenation on certain supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structures significantly impact coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore introduction in ZSM-5 reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation. Microporous supports enhance selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, larger, and well-connected pores accommodate more coke, improving performance as coke transfers from metal to support, increasing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support for PtSn-based catalysts significantly enhance coke accommodation and stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, specifically its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates the structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing their stability and robustness at high temperatures over extended periods. This pore structure is crucial for minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability, essential for optimal catalyst design. The stability of PtSn clusters, even with the addition of a few tin atoms, significantly reduces the deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). However, the use of a mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance. Notably, the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support (Quote 6) exhibits a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This highlights the importance of pore structure characteristics in catalyst design for optimal PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. This is evident in the comparison of catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). These findings highlight the importance of pore size in managing coke accommodation and optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreasing activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are more effective for DHP than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Pt particle size is critical for DHP performance, affecting activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15, with distinct pore geometries influencing DHP outcomes. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's cylindrical pores limit reactant-active site contact, reducing performance. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals, affecting side reactions and coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pores in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores improve selectivity and stability while reducing coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance as total cokes increase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, unlike high-acidity ZSM-5, decrease acid content and enhance surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation and catalytic performance. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5, with lower deactivation and less external coke deposits. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke migration from active metal to support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction necessary for PDH. This design strategy offers better coke resistance and accommodation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves selecting pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters remain stable at high temperatures and over extended periods, even with a few additional tin atoms, reducing deactivation rates by an order of magnitude while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The unique structure of these zeolites, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic efficiency, as evidenced by the slow deactivation and high initial propane conversion rates, even after 30 days of reaction. Surface silanol nests play a critical role in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote [2]). Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. Pore blockage leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates (Quote [4]). Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and making sites inaccessible when pores narrow and plug (Quote [5]). The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial (Quote [1]). During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure (Quote [7]). A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst resilience post-calcination. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance and the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in PDH reactions reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance and catalytic efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with enhanced performance in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes in catalysts like 3% Pt-SiO2 result in lower coke yields compared to larger pore sizes in catalysts such as 3% Pt-Al2O3, 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, and 3% Pt-SBA-15. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke formation and optimizing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory PDH performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst composition, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolite-supported Pt catalysts demonstrate better performance than Pt-SBA-15, likely due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. The pore geometry of supports is crucial for deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Zeolite-supported Pt catalysts outperform mesoporous SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and similar particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and reduces coke on the metal. Smaller micropores in Pt catalyst supports enhance selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, improving performance. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to unexpectedly good performance as total cokes increase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite supports, compared to conventional ZSM-5, significantly reduce acidity and enhance surface properties, improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit superior performance and stability due to the migration of coke from active metal to the support. The hierarchical-pores facilitate hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites, which is advantageous for PDH. PtSnNa/ZQ shows increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposition, especially on the external surface. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The enhanced mobility of adsorbed species and resistance to coke formation in PtSnNa/ZQ make it an optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in active species like PtSn clusters. These clusters, confined in sinusoidal 10R channels, exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, suggesting the pore structure's role in managing structural changes. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 for extended periods at high temperatures, with stability enhanced by a few additional tin atoms. Structural features of these clusters, though not immediately visible, are key to reducing deactivation rates by a factor of ten while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly improves durability and selectivity. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite enhances dispersion, stabilizing Pt nanoparticles and improving PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit superior catalytic performance, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition improved by the confinement of metal species within zeolite channels. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after four cycles, highlighting regeneration stability. These findings underscore the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as demonstrated by comparing different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability with lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are better for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry. Large pores in SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, reducing performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite similar Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, while appropriate modifications boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance with increased total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, exhibits high acidity, leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite modifies the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties. This significantly improves coke accommodation capacity and catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation to propene. PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates better propane conversion, stability, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, with coke deposits migrating from active metal to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke resistance and accommodation, making it an optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. These clusters, confined in sinusoidal 10R channels, exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, suggesting that pore structure plays a critical role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that enhance stability and selectivity of active species, minimizing coke formation and maximizing performance. The stability of subnanometric PtSn clusters in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, determined by a few additional tin atoms, contributes to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, traditionally used in PDH, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the striking enhancement in conversion rates and slow deactivation over 30 days (PtLa/mz-deGa). This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, facilitates reactant and product diffusion, stabilizing Pt nanoparticles and improving catalyst dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. The non-uniform distribution of coke is largely determined by the pore network structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting catalyst activity. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing a significant loss in activity due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. Confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability. Cs+ ions in the zeolite maintain catalytic activity after multiple cycles, underscoring the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from metal to support and modifying electronic properties. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke amounts. This is exemplified by the comparison of 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5), where the coke amount (%wt/wt at TOS = 160 min) decreases as pore size decreases. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less straightforward, as it is limited by pore size.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly impacts DHP activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like ZSM-5 outperform mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Identical Pt content and particle size in catalysts do not equate to performance, as Pt on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures to be hierarchical decreases support acidity, reducing coke formation on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports lead to better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can accommodate more coke, improving performance. Effective modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while minimizing coke formation, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance under higher total coke conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to conventional ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, leading to better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior performance, with increased propane conversion and selectivity, and a lower deactivation rate than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ are crucial for accommodating coke more effectively, which, in turn, boosts the catalyst's resistance against coke formation. These findings underscore the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enable high stability and robustness of PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, which is essential for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The stability of PtSn clusters in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, determined by a few additional tin atoms, and their structural features, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, are key to achieving a lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt catalyst dispersion, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits high initial propane conversion and undergoes slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition and catalyst stability under industrial conditions is critical. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the significance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin also modifies the electronic properties of platinum, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes in catalysts like 3% Pt-SiO2 result in lower coke yields compared to those with larger pores, such as 3% Pt-Al2O3. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke formation, crucial for optimal catalyst design. Other pore structure characteristics like connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements may also play roles, but their specific impacts require further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials, like Pt-ZSM-5, are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "The pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores in supports yield Pt catalysts with better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced external surface coke deposits. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Large pores anchor platinum particles, preventing agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability of subnanometric PtSn clusters, accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters enhances stability, even at high temperatures over extended periods, reducing deactivation rate by an order of magnitude while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical pore structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into Pt nanoparticles on mesoporous zeolites (Pt3La and Pt3Y) dramatically improves PDH activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. This zeolite structure, with its unique pore characteristics, is crucial for optimal catalyst design in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, as 'The pore network structure significantly affects the capacity to contain coke' [1]. 'Coke narrows and eventually plugs pores during reaction' [7], altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance, influencing optimal catalyst design. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in catalysts reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as its impact is constrained by pore size.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing decreasing activity with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 showed the highest propane conversion, with Pt-Beta exhibiting better stability due to lower coke formation. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 outperformed Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous supports like zeolites are superior for DHP due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. Catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions influence DHP performance. Pt particle size is critical for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were employed to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry contribute to zeolites' superior performance. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite similar Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Most modification methods enhance activity and selectivity while decreasing coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst support pore structures, particularly hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, significantly influence coke formation and accommodation. ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, hierarchical-pores in ZQ reduce acidity, enhance surface properties, and improve coke accommodation capacity. This leads to better propane conversion and catalyst stability, as observed with the PtSnNa/ZQ catalyst. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the anchoring of Pt particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the importance of structural features for maintaining high catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion and stability, as these rare-earth oxides stabilize Pt in small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, the addition of La and Y increased the catalytic lifetime more than tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibited enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests on the zeolite support atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin improves catalytic efficiency. These findings suggest strategies for designing coke-resistant and effective catalysts, although detailed implications for design are not extensively discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as exemplified by 3% Pt-SiO2 showing the lowest coke amount (5.5% wt/wt at TOS = 160 min) compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were evaluated, revealing that activity decreases with larger pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows superior selectivity and stability compared to Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are more effective for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. ZSM-5, Beta, and SBA-15 were chosen for their distinct pore geometries to systematically assess their intrinsic influence on PDH. The superior performance of Pt supported zeolites is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials is crucial for deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to include hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores enable higher coke accommodation. Most modification methods enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support for PtSn-based catalysts significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion, increased selectivity, and reduced deactivation. The hierarchical-pores enable the catalyst to better accommodate coke and resist its formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ superior to PtSnNa/ZSM-5 in PDH reactions. These findings highlight the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the structural changes of confined PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Platinum-tin clusters' structural features provide a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Utilizing a mesoporous zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance (Quote 1). Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime (Quote 5). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days (Quote 6, 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. The structure determines coke's non-uniform distribution, impacting reactant access to some large pores when they are surrounded by plugged pores. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, highlighting the critical role of pore structure. Confinement of metal species in zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the importance of pore structure characteristics in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies the electronic properties of platinum, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency. The literature suggests these relationships are crucial for optimal catalyst design, though detailed implications are not extensively discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. This is evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5), where the coke amount decreases as pore size decreases. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Evaluation using a TEOM reactor on micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed decreasing activity with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 had the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores favor better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, improving performance. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to unexpectedly good performance at higher total coke levels.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, addressing the limitations of high-acidity ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acid content in ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior propane conversion, selectivity, and stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5, with a lower deactivation rate. Hierarchical-pores enable coke to migrate from active metal to the support, reducing external surface coke deposits. The presence of Sn oxides in Pt catalysts weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Structural features of PtSn clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of these features in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    