Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt as small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, the addition of La and Y increased the catalytic lifetime more than tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibited enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation. The presence of Ga in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing a significant loss in activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalysts, guiding the design of optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to the platinum catalyst enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. This knowledge is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3 and 3% Pt-SBA-15. The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pt particle size is critical for DHP performance, with pore sizes increasing from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large cylindrical pores reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals, with side reactions competing with dehydrogenation on certain supports. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, while modifications often increase activity, selectivity, and decrease coke. Unexpectedly, increased total coke can lead to better performance due to its transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance surface properties, facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability for PtSnNa/ZQ, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, with structural features contributing to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts the performance of supported metals. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion and stability, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by maintaining 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction. The critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles contributes to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, leading to a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, significantly reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite improves regeneration stability, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These insights are crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. This is evident from the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations, highlighting the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance due to insufficient reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt on zeolites outperforms Pt-SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with increased total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. The high acidity of ZSM-5 leads to unsatisfactory coke management and stability. In contrast, ZQ's hierarchical-pores reduce acidity, improve surface properties, and facilitate coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores enable the catalyst to better accommodate coke and resist its formation, promoting the reduction of Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing easier migration of coke precursors to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports PtSn clusters, accommodating their structural changes, which impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. This suggests that optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts performance, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit improved PDH catalytic activity, selectivity, and durability. Incorporating La and Y into the zeolite improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst showing high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote 2). Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process (Quote 3). This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates (Quote 4). Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores (Quote 5). As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting the catalyst's coke capacity (Quote 6, Quote 7). A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing a significant loss in activity (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, highlighting the importance of pore structure. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity over multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for effective PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation compared to acidic ones, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). Acidity's impact is less direct, as pore size limits coke amount, highlighting the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like ZSM-5 and Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, SBA-15's large cylindrical pores and lack of cation exchange sites lead to lower catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt on zeolites outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores favor better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can handle more coke. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on the support can improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, unlike high-acidity ZSM-5, reduce acid content and enhance surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation and catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ enables better propane conversion, increased selectivity, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, promoting hydrogen spillover and Pt oxide reduction, which stabilizes active sites. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing easier migration of coke precursors to the support's external surface. The enhanced mobility of adsorbed species and the anchoring of Pt particles in hierarchical-pores lead to better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are vital for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, with their structural features key to achieving a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity. This highlights the importance of pore structure characteristics in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support, characterized by ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is evidenced by the sustained high propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days, showcasing the potential of these structures in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This can cause sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through four cycles, underscoring the importance of pore structure in regeneration stability. These findings suggest that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to limit coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation using a TEOM reactor revealed that activity decreases with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Pt-ZSM-5 forms the most coke, while Pt-Beta shows the least, indicating better stability. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 demonstrates better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites enhance catalytic performance, whereas large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalyst supports yield better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can accommodate more coke, improving performance as coke transfers from metal to support. Most modification methods enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke, crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. The modified pore structure, decreased acidity, and improved surface properties of ZQ enable better coke management and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced external surface coke deposits. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors from active metals to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction necessary for PDH. This results in increased conversion and selectivity, as well as better resistance against coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, accommodates structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures. This unique pore structure plays a crucial role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, with the stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters being key to optimal catalyst performance. The addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters significantly improves stability over extended periods, reducing deactivation rates by an order of magnitude while maintaining high catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore structure characteristics in designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This is exemplified by the ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores that boost catalytic activity. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina support suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly affects coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These insights suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with optimal pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size limitations restrict coke amount, making acidity's effect hard to verify.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly affects propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Studying micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with larger pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits the least coke formation and best catalytic stability. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. The pore geometry of supports plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. On ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions competing with dehydrogenation contribute to coke precursor formation. Zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke are beneficial. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly boosts performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. By reducing acidity and improving surface properties, ZQ supports better coke management, leading to higher propane conversion and improved catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposition, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction process. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke resistance and accommodation capacity, making it an optimal choice for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features, not easily detectable by conventional methods, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical pore structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves metal dispersion and catalytic lifetime, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing residual Ga, shows a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days, showcasing the potential of optimized catalyst design in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon, where open pores drop below a critical threshold, further exacerbates activity loss. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure and impacting catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions further stabilizes regeneration without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in catalysts reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly affects propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied using a TEOM reactor, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are better for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15, as they induce optimal catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size increases from ZSM-5 to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to be hierarchical decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, while most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance as total cokes increase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite supports significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to conventional ZSM-5. By reducing acidity and improving surface properties, ZQ enables better coke management, leading to higher propane conversion and selectivity, as well as reduced deactivation. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ are directly responsible for its superior coke accommodation capacity, showcasing the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over time, are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a tenfold reduction in deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support, alongside Pt, significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced performance, retaining high propane conversion rates over extended periods, as shown in Fig.2. The surface silanol nests in the degallated zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst may also contribute to its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Pore structure dictates coke distribution, leading to non-uniformity across the catalyst particle. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability improving after calcination under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions further boosts regeneration stability, underscoring the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. The addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as its effect is limited by pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 lead to lower catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly affects coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5. The modified pore structure, decreased acid content, and enhanced surface properties of ZQ enable better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with a lower deactivation rate. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the accommodation of coke and offer resistance against its formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. These clusters, confined in sinusoidal 10R channels, exhibit high stability and robustness at high temperatures and over time, crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that enhance stability and selectivity while minimizing coke formation. Subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 for extended periods at high temperatures, with added tin atoms improving stability. Structural features of these clusters, though not immediately visible, are key to reducing deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves catalyst dispersion and catalytic lifetime by over tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. The pore network structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, highlighting the critical role of pore structure. Confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through four cycles, underscoring the importance of pore structure in PDH catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as pore size limitations make its influence hard to verify.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion and selectivity, despite higher coke content, compared to Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, which have lower activity and higher stability, respectively. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. The size of Pt particles and pore geometry are crucial for optimal catalytic performance, with zeolites offering superior activity, selectivity, and stability. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. These findings highlight the importance of pore geometry in deriving the best catalytic properties for supported metals in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structures significantly influence coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on the support can improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation reactions, compared to high-acidity ZSM-5. This modification decreases acid content, promotes surface properties, and enables better propane conversion and catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits improved capacity to accommodate coke and resistance against coke formation, with increased conversion and selectivity, and lower deactivation parameters than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores are directly responsible for these enhanced coke accommodation capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports PtSn clusters, accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters exhibit high stability over extended periods, even at high temperatures, due to a few additional tin atoms. Their structural features, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support (Quote 6) dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. The distribution of coke is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties and catalyst deactivation through active site coverage, increased diffusion resistance, and inaccessible sites. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, significantly impacting activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. Metal species confinement boosts hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Cs+ ion introduction improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These insights suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations. These insights are crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better stability with less coke formation than Pt-ZSM-5, despite the latter's higher selectivity. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is crucial for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry, enhancing catalytic performance compared to SBA-15's large cylindrical pores, which lack contact between reactants and active sites. Pore geometry plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals, affecting side reactions and coke precursor formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Appropriate pore modifications boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability compared to high-acidity ZSM-5. The modified pore structure of ZQ decreases acid content, promoting surface properties and enhancing coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation and reduced external coke deposits. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, facilitating coke precursor migration to the support. Large pores anchor platinum particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, optimizing PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, indicating its role in accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters enhances their stability in H2 at high temperatures, over 6 hours, which is crucial for maintaining high catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion, stabilizing it as small nanoparticles. This modification unexpectedly increased the catalytic lifetime more than tenfold, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests in the zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows and eventually plugs them, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite improves regeneration stability, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. Tin also modifies the electronic properties of platinum, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated using a TEOM reactor. Results showed decreasing activity with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 having the highest propane conversion. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. The size of Pt particles is crucial for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide superior catalytic performance due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. The pore geometry of supports is critical for deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures to be hierarchical decreases support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores in Pt catalyst supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance boost when total cokes increase is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation capacity. This modification boosts propane conversion and catalyst stability, as evidenced by the enhanced performance and lower deactivation rate of PtSnNa/ZQ compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ facilitate better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making it a superior support for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports PtSn clusters, accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. PtSn clusters' stability and selectivity are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves selecting pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures, with structural features providing a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Using mesoporous zeolites with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into these zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying, contributing to the high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties and catalyst deactivation through active site coverage, increased diffusion resistance, and inaccessible sites due to pore narrowing and plugging. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst resilience. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved coke accommodation and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest that modifying pore structures can optimize catalyst design for better coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes in 3% Pt-Al2O3, 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, and 3% Pt-SBA-15 lead to higher coke yields compared to 3% Pt-SiO2, illustrating the critical role of pore size in managing coke formation. This relationship underscores the importance of pore structure characteristics in the design of optimal catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly affects propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Among micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials, activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures to be hierarchical decreases support acidity, reducing coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance improvement with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, decreases acidity, and promotes surface properties, enhancing coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ shows significantly improved propane dehydrogenation performance and stability. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for the enhanced coke accommodation, with lower deactivation parameters and increased conversion and selectivity compared to ZSM-5. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better coke resistance and accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over time, are critical for minimizing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that enhance selectivity and stability while reducing coke formation, as demonstrated by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions with stable PtSn clusters.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    