Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion (Quote 1). Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quotes 2, 3). Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite improves catalyst dispersion and catalytic lifetime by over tenfold (Quotes 4, 5). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite (PtLa/mz-deGa) exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation (Quotes 6, 7). Surface silanol nests play a critical role in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition and catalyst stability after calcination significantly improved. The addition of Cs+ ions boosts regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This insight suggests that modifying pore structures can optimize catalysts for better coke accommodation and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to lower coke yields, as seen in the comparison: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is crucial for designing optimal catalysts, as it highlights the role of pore structure in managing coke formation and enhancing overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials, like Pt-ZSM-5, are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst performance discrepancies among different framework zeolites can be attributed to factors such as composition and feedstock. The size of Pt particles is critical in determining PDH activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. The superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. The pore geometry of the support materials plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Appropriate pore modifications enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity hinders coke accommodation and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, stability, and resistance to coke formation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable enhanced coke accommodation, leading to lower deactivation and less external surface coke deposits. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior capacity to accommodate coke and resist coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over time, are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore structures that maintain cluster stability and minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This is exemplified by the use of a zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, which boosts the performance of supported metals. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, demonstrating the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and improving catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalysts, guiding optimal design considerations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke yields. This is exemplified by the comparison of different catalysts, where 3% Pt-SiO2 showed the lowest coke amount (5.5% wt/wt at TOS = 160 min), followed by 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7%), 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6%), and 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0%). These findings highlight the importance of pore size in managing coke formation and optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. These findings highlight the crucial role of pore geometry in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported active metals, with implications for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing support capacity. Microporous supports for Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesoporous ones. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke. Modification methods typically increase activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total coke amounts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation rates for PtSnNa/ZQ than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores in PtSnNa/ZQ anchor Pt particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing stability. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are vital for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Careful design of catalyst support pore structures can maximize selectivity, stability, and minimize coke formation, as demonstrated by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity, attributed to the clusters' structural features.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of a siliceous MFI zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, as a superior catalyst support, improves the durability and selectivity of the catalyst compared to traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, which rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into the mesoporous zeolite not only improves metal dispersion but also increases catalytic lifetime by over tenfold, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst may also contribute to its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Plugged pores can render large pores inaccessible, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, significantly impacting activity due to increased resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore structure playing a critical role. Confinement of metal species in zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in catalyst support for optimal PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These findings suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The relationship between acidity and coke amount is less clear, as pore size limits coke accumulation, affecting catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. A study using micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials in a TEOM reactor revealed that activity decreases with larger pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 in DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Factors like catalyst compositions and Pt particle size also impact DHP performance. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties, with zeolites showing superior performance over mesoporous materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Microporous supports yield Pt catalysts with superior selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke contribute to improved performance, especially when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. By reducing acidity and improving surface properties, ZQ supports better coke management, leading to higher propane conversion and improved catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, with lower deactivation rates than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors from the metal surface to the support, promoting resistance against coke formation. This design offers a superior catalyst for PDH reactions, optimizing performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in sinusoidal 10R channels exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, suggesting the pore structure's ability to accommodate changes. This stability is crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH), traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Advanced catalyst supports, like mesoporous zeolites with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boost catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into these supports forms Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit exceptional PDH activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by maintaining 8% propane conversion after 30 days. This breakthrough is attributed to the unique pore structure and strong metal-support interactions, offering insights for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, rendering some large pores inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke amount (5.5% wt/wt), compared to 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0%), 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6%), and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7%). The influence of acidity on coke formation is constrained by pore size, complicating its verification.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied using a TEOM reactor, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were used to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP. Superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes transferred from metal to support can enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to high-acidity ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acid content in ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced external surface coke deposits. The hierarchical-pores enable enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability, even at high temperatures, suggesting the pore structure's role in accommodating structural changes, which is key to maintaining high catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt in small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, this not only enhances initial PDH activity but also increases catalytic lifetime over tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit superior PDH performance, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of Ga in the degallated zeolite may contribute to catalytic function, and surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is crucial for optimal catalyst design, as it indicates the role of pore size in managing coke accommodation and enhancing overall catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous (Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-porous (Pt-SBA-15) materials were evaluated using a TEOM reactor, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior supports for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals. Zeolite-supported Pt shows superior performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and similar particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores in Pt catalyst supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke are beneficial. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support, compared to conventional ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and reduced acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites, while Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal bonds, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced coke resistance and accommodation capacity.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enhance stability and robustness of PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures, suggesting a role in managing structural changes that affect coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. The structural features of PtSn clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of a siliceous MFI zeolite support boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly improves catalyst durability and selectivity compared to alumina-supported PtSn catalysts, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the support.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, as noted, 'The pore network structure significantly affects the capacity to contain coke.' Coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition improving catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after four cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in the design of optimal catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance due to insufficient reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, producing coke precursors. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and catalyst stability, with hydrogen promoting Pt oxide reduction and stabilizing active sites. The conversion and selectivity of PtSnNa/ZQ are higher than PtSnNa/ZSM-5, with lower deactivation parameters. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, facilitating the migration of coke precursors to the support. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing adsorbed species to migrate more easily to the support, enhancing the catalyst's stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and overall performance by accommodating structural changes in active species like PtSn clusters. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enhance the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, suggesting a role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. The stability of PtSn clusters in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, determined by a few additional tin atoms, and their structural features, which lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity, are crucial for effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been standard, but Pt rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing significant enhancement in PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, potentially causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, leading to a significant loss in activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yields, as demonstrated by the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as pore size limits coke amount.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated, showing decreasing activity with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 had the highest propane conversion but also the most coke formation, whereas Pt-Beta exhibited better stability. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are due to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is crucial for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were used to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence. Superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites is attributed to cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pores on microporous supports yield better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, improving performance as coke transfers from metal to support. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are key to its enhanced coke accommodation capacity, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst with better resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, such as the sinusoidal 10R channels in MFI zeolite, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are vital for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite exhibit high stability at high temperatures and over extended periods, indicating the importance of pore structure in maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support (Quote 6) dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, causing some large pores to become inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, significantly reducing activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with confined metal species boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability. Introducing Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports reduce coke formation in PDH reactions compared to acidic ones, minimizing cracking and polymerization. Adding tin to platinum catalysts transfers coke from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance and coke accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreasing activity with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 forms the most coke, yet shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15, despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials, like Pt-ZSM-5, outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. These findings highlight the crucial role of pore geometry in deriving optimal catalytic properties, with Pt-supported zeolites demonstrating superior performance over mesoporous supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Most modifications enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes, when transferred from metal to support, improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure of ZQ decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, enhancing coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit better propane conversion, improved stability, and lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and active sites. This results in increased conversion and selectivity, with less coke deposition on the external surface of the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, offering implications for optimal catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, is critical for high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures. This suggests a role in coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are essential for suppressing deactivation and coke formation, indicating that optimal catalyst design should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species while minimizing coke formation. Subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, highlighting the importance of pore structure in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support, characterized by ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, dramatically improves PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles exhibit unique H2 sorption behavior and maintain high propane conversion rates over extended periods, demonstrating the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Plugged pores around large ones render them inaccessible, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. A percolation phenomenon occurs when open pore fraction drops, causing activity loss due to inaccessible sites and increased resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure significantly affects hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability, with Cs+ ions improving regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. Acidity's impact on coke formation is less direct, as it is constrained by pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to factors like catalyst compositions and Pt particle size, which is crucial for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore geometry of supports plays a critical role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals, with zeolites offering superior performance over SBA-15 due to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. These findings have implications for designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, and the transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance. Appropriate modifications increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively affects coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior propane conversion, propene yield, and stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5, with lower deactivation and less coke deposit, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, and PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better resistance against coke formation. These findings imply that hierarchical-pore structures are beneficial for optimal catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Structural features of PtSn clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, are crucial for maintaining high catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves catalyst dispersion and stability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, due to the unique pore structure and surface silanol nests that enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting accessibility. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when open pores drop below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, demonstrating the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design. The introduction of Cs+ ions further improves regeneration stability, underscoring the importance of pore structure in achieving effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These insights suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Specifically, smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in the design of optimal catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP performance, and pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties. Zeolites' superior performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large cylindrical pores limit reactant-active site contact, reducing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation, enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can handle more coke. Modifying pore structures typically increases activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost when total cokes rise is attributed to coke transferring from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ are crucial for accommodating coke, making the catalyst more resistant to coke formation. This highlights the importance of hierarchical-pore structures in designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique pore structure of MFI zeolite allows PtSn clusters to remain stable at high temperatures over extended periods, even with the addition of a few tin atoms, significantly reducing deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have faced rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. The introduction of a mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts the performance of supported metals. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt in small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, this not only enhances initial PDH activity but also increases catalytic lifetime over tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit exceptional PDH performance, with high initial conversion rates and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles contributes to the high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation, accommodation, and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst resilience post-calcination. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity over four cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in catalysts reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification also improves the electronic properties of platinum, further boosting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6), 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The relationship between acidity and coke amount is less clear due to pore size limitations, highlighting the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreasing activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows better stability with less coke formation than Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst composition, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions influence DHP performance. Pt particle size is critical for activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. Pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 despite identical Pt content and similar particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Most modifications enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to conventional ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and reduced acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable coke precursor migration from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction necessary for PDH. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, enhancing coke precursor mobility to the support's acid sites. These improvements in coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation make PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, which is attributed to a few additional tin atoms. This stability, combined with specific structural features, provides a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    