Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly improves catalyst durability and selectivity compared to traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina. Pt alone shows high initial activity but deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into the mesoporous zeolite enhances dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits high initial propane conversion and undergoes slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, distribution, and overall performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This can cause sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting reactant access. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. Metal confinement boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst resilience under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This modification of electronic properties by tin is key to designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke amounts. This is evident from the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). These findings highlight the importance of pore size in managing coke formation and optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were studied, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is crucial for DHP performance, and the pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large cylindrical pores limit reactant-active site contact, reducing its catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials is critical for deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods often increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly boosts performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, reducing acidity and promoting surface properties, which greatly improves coke accommodation. Coke deposits on PtSnNa/ZQ migrate from active metal to the support, significantly enhancing catalytic performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation to propene. The hierarchical-porous ZSM-5 support (ZQ) enables better propane conversion and improved catalyst stability, with increased conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The deactivation parameter of PtSnNa/ZQ is lower, and the total amount of coke deposits is much less, especially on the external surface of the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for the enhanced capacity to accommodate coke, promoting better resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. These clusters exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, suggesting the pore structure's role in accommodating structural changes. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn on alumina is used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt as small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, this not only enhances initial PDH activity but also increases catalytic lifetime tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of Ga in the degallated zeolite may contribute to catalytic function, while surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, crucial for high PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and distribution, affecting catalyst performance. Coke's non-uniform distribution is largely determined by the pore network and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite's pore structure significantly enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels improves hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity over cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for effective PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke amount (5.5% wt/wt), compared to 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0%), 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6%), and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7%). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal coke accommodation and performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are more effective for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites offer superior catalytic performance due to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, producing coke precursors. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods that transfer coke from metal to support unexpectedly improve performance. These insights guide optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. ZQ's modified pore structure decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, improving coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with a lower deactivation rate. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, making the PtSnNa/ZQ catalyst more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures, by accommodating structural changes. This unique feature is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are pivotal for optimal catalyst design. Advanced characterization reveals that these clusters have a lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of pore structure in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Advanced catalyst supports, like those with ultrathin zeolite frameworks and interconnected mesopores, improve durability and selectivity. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites boosts PDH catalytic performance, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced activity, selectivity, and durability. This is attributed to the unique structure of the zeolite and the strong metal-support interactions that stabilize small Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Plugged pores can render large pores inaccessible to reactants, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, leading to significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions further stabilizes regeneration without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance and catalytic efficiency. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability with less coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. The pore geometry of support materials is crucial for deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pores in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pores on microporous supports yield better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. Hierarchical-pores in ZQ decrease acidity and promote surface properties, enhancing coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ shows better propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation parameters. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and improving catalytic sites. This results in higher conversion and selectivity, and less coke deposition on the external surface of ZQ. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. These subnanometric clusters, confined in sinusoidal 10R channels, exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, suggesting the pore structure's role in managing structural changes. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Notably, the structural features of PtSn clusters contribute to a tenfold lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles show slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates even after extended reaction periods, demonstrating the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and improving catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, making active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance, crucial for optimal catalyst design. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under various conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly affects coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. Specifically, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship between pore size and coke formation is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were evaluated, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Pt-Beta shows the lowest coke formation and better catalytic stability. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and the three-dimensional pore geometry of zeolites contribute to their superior catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may not provide the required contact between reactant and active sites, leading to lower catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with the dehydrogenation reaction. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Pore structure significantly impacts coke formation in PDH reactions. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Most modifications enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke. Unexpectedly good performance is linked to coke transfer from metal to support as total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite supports significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to conventional ZSM-5 supports. The modified pore structure and reduced acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced external surface coke deposits. The hierarchical-pores enable the migration of coke precursors from active metals to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction necessary for PDH reactions. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced resistance to coke formation and improved capacity to accommodate coke, offering insights for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the subnanometric PtSn clusters' enhanced performance in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina support suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). However, the use of a mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance (Quote 1). Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite support results in the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quote 6, 7). This demonstrates the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, leading to improved catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. The pore structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when open pores drop below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with confined metal species boosting hydrogen generation rates and improving catalyst resilience post-calcination. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The impact of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to limit coke accumulation, making acidity's role difficult to ascertain.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. The pore geometry of supports plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, such as introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation, improving coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports enhance Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts in PDH reactions. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, while appropriate modification methods increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, faces issues with high acidity, leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, however, decreases acidity and enhances surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation capacity. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and reduced deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, making PtSnNa/ZQ more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing surface silanol nests, enables atomistic alloying and maintains high propane conversion over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Pore plugging by coke can render large pores inaccessible to reactants, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, leading to inaccessible active sites. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, and when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, a percolation phenomenon occurs, further deactivating the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability. Incorporating Cs+ ions further aids regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. This relationship between pore structure and coke behavior has implications for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly affects coke yield, with smaller pore sizes leading to lower coke amounts. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations. These findings have implications for designing catalysts with optimal pore structures for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated, showing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 having the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials are superior for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are due to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were used to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry contribute to zeolites' superior catalytic performance. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structure, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, reduces acidity and inhibits coke on the metal, enhancing support capacity for coke. Smaller micropores in supports lead to better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke are beneficial. Unexpectedly good performance can occur when total cokes increase due to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore ZQ zeolite, compared to conventional ZSM-5, significantly enhances coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores enable enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, while promoting hydrogen spillover to stabilize active sites. This results in increased conversion and selectivity, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in active species such as PtSn clusters. These clusters' stability and selectivity, crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation, are enhanced by the unique pore structure, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore characteristics that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the importance of pore structure in maintaining catalytic activity and minimizing deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt with La and Y into mesoporous zeolites improves nanoparticle dispersion, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying, contributing to the high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, further impacting activity. Understanding these relationships is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, demonstrating the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements. These findings highlight the importance of pore structure in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. This is attributed to tin's ability to modify platinum's electronic properties. These insights suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes correlate with lower coke yields, as exemplified by 3% Pt-SiO2 showing the least coke amount compared to other catalysts. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to be the limiting factor.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like ZSM-5 are superior to SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. DHP performance variability is attributed to catalyst composition, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with three-dimensional pore geometry and cation exchange sites outperform SBA-15, which lacks these features. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke formation. Despite similar Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to include hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports lead to better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, improving catalyst performance. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. This leads to better propane conversion and catalyst stability, as evidenced by the enhanced performance of PtSnNa/ZQ over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making it a superior support for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability even at high temperatures over extended periods. This unique pore structure plays a role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, crucial for maintaining high selectivity and stability. Optimal catalyst design for PDH involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly improves catalyst durability and selectivity compared to traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina. Pt alone shows high initial activity but deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into the mesoporous zeolite support enhances Pt catalyst dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that exhibit improved PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, shows a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergoes extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the catalyst support's pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Pore plugging by coke renders some large pores inaccessible, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites and increasing diffusion resistance when pores are narrowed. A percolation phenomenon, where open pores drop below a critical threshold, further deactivates catalysts by blocking access to active sites. These insights are critical for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in hydrogen generation from formic acid decomposition and its impact on catalyst stability after calcination under industrial conditions highlight its critical importance. The introduction of Cs+ ions further improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the significance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke accommodation and enhancing overall catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better stability with less coke formation than Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can accommodate more coke, which, when transferred from metal to support, unexpectedly enhances performance. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. In contrast, ZQ's modified pore structure and decreased acid content improve surface properties and coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ enables better propane conversion and stability, with increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposit, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, promoting the reduction of Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke resistance and accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique pore structure enhances stability and robustness of PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, which is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should focus on engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes of active species while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The stability of PtSn clusters in H2 over extended periods, even at high temperatures, is determined by the addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters. The structural features of these clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques but established through advanced characterization methods, provide a significantly lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt in small nanoparticles. This modification, surprisingly, increases catalytic lifetime over tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may contribute to this catalytic function. The high performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa can be attributed to surface silanol nests enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, making active sites inaccessible. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst resilience in industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, improving catalyst efficiency. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better coke accommodation and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation. This relationship is critical for designing effective catalysts, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts where 3% Pt-SiO2 showed the least coke formation. The limitation of coke amount by pore size underscores the importance of pore structure in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Among micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials, activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with less coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, Pt-supported zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, highly connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. In contrast, ZQ's modified pore structure decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, improving coke accommodation. Coke deposits migrate from active metal to the support in PtSnNa/ZQ, boosting propane conversion and catalyst stability. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits higher conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposit on the external surface than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. These hierarchical-pores are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, making PtSnNa/ZQ more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. PtSn clusters confined in these pores exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, which is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. The design of optimal catalysts for PDH reactions involves engineering pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures (e.g., 600°C) for over 6 hours, with a few additional tin atoms enhancing stability. Their structural features, determined by in situ extended X-ray absorption fine structure, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy, and CO infrared data, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Mesoporous zeolites with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores improve durability and selectivity. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into these zeolites forms Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation and catalyst resilience. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity and improves regeneration stability. These findings underscore the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in the design of effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 showed the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibited better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is crucial for DHP performance. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform Pt-SBA-15 due to active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry. This highlights the role of pore geometry in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Most modification methods enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, addressing the limitations of high acidity in ZSM-5. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ decreases acid content and promotes surface properties, improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and stability, with increased conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The deactivation parameter is lower for PtSnNa/ZQ, and the hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, reducing coke deposits on the external surface. This catalyst design offers better resistance against coke formation, optimizing PDH reaction performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by the sinusoidal 10R channels in MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design should focus on engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Using a mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts the performance of supported metals. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests in the zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions to the zeolite maintains catalytic activity over four cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance and the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in PDH reactions reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. Tin also modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes correlate with reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the decreasing coke amounts in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less straightforward, as pore size limitations confound its verification.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances among zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites enhance catalytic performance. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation in PDH reactions. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance enhancement with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and reduced acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion and catalyst stability, as evidenced by increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation parameters, and reduced coke deposits on PtSnNa/ZQ. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores in PtSnNa/ZQ stabilize Pt oxides, anchoring Pt particles and inhibiting agglomeration, leading to improved catalyst stability. The modified acidity and pore structure prevent hydrocarbon from forming multiple carbon-metal bonds, enhancing coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing their stability and robustness even at high temperatures and over time. This unique pore structure contributes to suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, crucial for maintaining high selectivity and stability in PDH reactions. Optimal catalyst design should focus on engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions with stable PtSn clusters, despite high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    