Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The use of this zeolite as a catalyst support improves durability and selectivity, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The addition of La and Y to the mesoporous zeolite increases the catalytic lifetime more than tenfold, and the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst shows a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, further reducing activity. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity after multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, improving catalyst efficiency. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better coke accommodation and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is crucial for designing optimal catalysts with controlled pore structures to minimize coke formation and enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreased activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. DHP performance variability among zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and complemented by three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, SBA-15's large cylindrical pores reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting catalyst performance. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better manage coke. Modifying methods typically enhance activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance the catalyst's capacity to accommodate coke, leading to better propane conversion and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposition on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, stabilizing the catalyst against coke formation. This highlights the importance of pore structure characteristics in designing optimal catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures, over extended periods, indicating the importance of structural features in maintaining catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime by over tenfold. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on the degallated zeolite exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is attributed to the unique pore structure and surface silanol nests that enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure profoundly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Plugged pores around large ones hinder reactant access, complicating coking. This results in sudden changes in properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The structure's capacity to contain coke is critical. Pore narrowing and plugging during reactions alter the structure, affecting reactant access. When the fraction of open pores falls below a threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, demonstrating the importance of pore structure. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. These findings underscore the significance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Tin addition to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance by modifying platinum's electronic properties. Literature lacks detailed implications for optimal catalyst design, focusing on the observed benefits of these structural and compositional modifications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3 and 3% Pt-SBA-15. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, demonstrates better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical in determining DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites contribute to superior catalytic performance, whereas large cylindrical pores in SBA-15 lead to lower performance due to reduced reactant-active site contact. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "The pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to be hierarchical decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, and appropriate modifications typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to conventional ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores enable the migration of coke precursors from the metal surface to the support, stabilizing active sites and promoting the reduction of Pt oxides. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal bonds, allowing adsorbed species to migrate more easily. This results in a catalyst with enhanced coke resistance and accommodation capacity.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by the sinusoidal 10R channels in MFI zeolite, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the subnanometric PtSn clusters' enhanced performance in PDH reactions due to their unique structural features.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion, stabilizing it in small nanoparticles. This results in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and a striking enhancement in PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability improving significantly. The introduction of Cs+ ions boosts regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, indicating that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This highlights the importance of pore structure characteristics in catalyst design for optimal PDH reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to less coke: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, with activity decreasing as pore size increases (ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15). Pt-Beta shows better stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15, indicating that pore geometry is crucial for optimal catalytic properties. These findings underscore the importance of pore structure in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to include hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5, which has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke management. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, improving coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, stability, and resistance to deactivation, with lower coke deposits on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors to the support, stabilizing active sites and reducing carbon-metal bonds, thus accommodating more coke and resisting its formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves selecting pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability at high temperatures and over time, which is crucial for maintaining catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical pore structure of zeolite catalyst supports, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances metal nanoparticle dispersion and reactant/product diffusion, improving catalytic performance. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites boosts nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that exhibit enhanced PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles, formed throughout the zeolite support, show distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and makes active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst performance, guiding optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving catalytic efficiency. These findings suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design, focusing on pore structure characteristics that mitigate coke formation and enhance overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to reduced coke yield. This is evident from the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5), where the coke amount (%wt/wt at TOS = 160 min) decreases as pore size decreases. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were studied, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability with less coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Appropriate modifications typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to conventional ZSM-5, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability. The modified pore structure and reduced acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable coke precursor migration from active metal to the support, while Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting species mobility. This results in PtSnNa/ZQ's enhanced coke resistance and accommodation capacity, crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters, enhanced by the addition of tin atoms, are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Structural features of PtSn clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity, essential for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, traditionally used in PDH, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). However, using a mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the support (Quote 6) leads to a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days (Quote 7). This highlights the critical role of pore structure in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting catalyst activity. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst resilience. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These insights suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Specifically, decreasing coke amounts are observed in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5), demonstrating the critical role of pore size in managing coke yield. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as it is limited by pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated, revealing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to larger mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can handle more coke. Modification methods often enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke. Unexpectedly, increased total coke can improve performance when transferred from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management and stability. In contrast, ZQ's hierarchical-pores decrease acidity, enhance surface properties, and facilitate coke migration from active metal to support, improving propane conversion and catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, stabilizing active sites and promoting the reduction of Pt oxides. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, aiding coke precursor migration to the support's external surface. The large pores anchor platinum particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, plays a role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite contribute to the high stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The structural features of PtSn clusters, determined by a few additional tin atoms, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates quickly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced catalytic lifetime and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions further aids regeneration stability. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. The addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better catalytic performance under coking conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as it is constrained by pore size limitations. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Studying micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials via a TEOM reactor revealed decreasing activity with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 had the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were used to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP. Superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites may originate from cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation. Smaller pores on microporous supports enhance Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke, and the transfer of coke from metal to support enhances performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite enhances coke accommodation, improves catalytic performance, and stabilizes the catalyst. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, reducing coke deposits, especially on the external surface. This leads to better propane conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation rates compared to ZSM-5. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The modified acidity of ZQ ensures hydrocarbons cannot readily form multiple carbon-metal bonds, enhancing coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior performance and stability in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as evidenced by the enhanced performance of PtSn clusters stable at high temperatures over extended periods, even with slight modifications. Structural features of PtSn clusters, though not immediately visible, are key to achieving lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. Surface silanol nests in the degallated zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties and catalyst deactivation through active site coverage, increased diffusion resistance, and inaccessible sites due to pore narrowing and plugging. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability. Incorporating Cs+ ions further aids regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as evidenced by the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore structure in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were studied, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 showed the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibited better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. On ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pores on microporous supports yield better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, improving performance. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke are favorable. The unexpected performance boost when total cokes rise is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, decreases acidity, and promotes surface properties, significantly enhancing coke accommodation capacity. This modification leads to better propane conversion and improved catalyst stability, as evidenced by the enhanced performance of PtSnNa/ZQ compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for the catalyst's improved coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making it a superior choice for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation and maximize selectivity and stability. Notably, the structural features of platinum-tin clusters, including their stability in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt with La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support boosts PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates even after extended reaction periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leads to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process and causing sudden changes in effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. A percolation phenomenon, where open pore fraction drops below a critical level, leads to significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions, highlighting the critical role of pore structure. The introduction of Cs+ ions further boosts regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity, emphasizing the importance of pore characteristics in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These findings suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in optimal catalyst design for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation using a TEOM reactor on micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better catalytic stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is crucial for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and a three-dimensional pore geometry, enhancing catalytic performance compared to Pt-SBA-15. The pore geometry of support materials plays a critical role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, while modifications that increase activity and selectivity decrease coke. Unexpectedly, increased total coke can improve performance through its transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management and stability. In contrast, hierarchical-pores in ZQ reduce acidity, improve surface properties, and facilitate coke migration from active metal to the support, boosting propane conversion and catalyst stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation rates than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores' capacity to accommodate coke and resist its formation makes PtSnNa/ZQ a superior catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, and their structural features, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the hierarchical pore structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure improves upon traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support not only improves metal dispersion but also results in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including increased activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, demonstrating the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and improving catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's influence on coke formation and accommodation is pivotal, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, significantly impacting activity. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, a percolation phenomenon occurs, further reducing activity due to inaccessible sites. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores boosts stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels enhances hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, emphasizing the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, improving catalyst efficiency. These findings have implications for designing catalysts with optimal pore structures for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller pores leading to reduced coke yield: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The relationship between acidity and coke formation is complex, as pore size limits coke amount. These findings have implications for designing effective catalysts with optimized pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, with activity decreasing as pore size increases. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP performance, and pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties. On supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions compete with dehydrogenation, affecting catalyst performance. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, while the transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite supports significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance compared to ZSM-5. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management and stability, whereas ZQ's modified pore structure, reduced acid content, and improved surface properties boost coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, stability, and resistance to coke formation. The hierarchical-pores facilitate hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. Conversion and selectivity are higher in PtSnNa/ZQ, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke. The hierarchical-pores' capacity to accommodate coke and resist formation is a key factor in improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite exhibit high stability and robustness, even at high temperatures, due to the unique pore structure that accommodates structural changes during the reaction. Structural features of PtSn clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, are essential for a lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts the performance of supported metals. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This affects macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. Changes in pore structure due to coke plugging can lead to a percolation phenomenon, where a drop below a critical threshold of open pores causes significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, demonstrating the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions further enhances regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3 and 3% Pt-SBA-15. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations. These insights are crucial for designing optimal catalysts with controlled pore structures to minimize coke formation and enhance PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Effective modification methods boost activity and selectivity while minimizing coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to ZSM-5. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ decreases acidity, promotes surface properties, and enhances coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, improved stability, and lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and active sites. This results in increased conversion and selectivity, with less coke deposit on the external surface of ZQ. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves selecting pore structures that accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters are stable in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, with structural features key to a lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by a high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The unique structure of the zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, is critical for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is affected by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance. These findings suggest strategies for designing coke-resistant and effective catalysts, although detailed implications for optimal design are not extensively discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts, highlighting the role of pore size in coke accommodation and catalyst performance. This relationship is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreasing activity with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to factors like composition and feed. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas large cylindrical pores in SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly affects coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pores in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods often increase activity, selectivity, and decrease coke. Unexpectedly, increased total coke, when transferred from metal to support, improves performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to conventional ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance the catalyst's ability to handle coke, leading to better propane conversion and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposit on the external surface, demonstrating its superior capacity to accommodate coke and resist coke formation. These findings highlight the importance of hierarchical-pore arrangements in designing effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the subnanometric PtSn clusters' enhanced performance in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures. Structural features of these clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    