Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used industrially, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibiting enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, shows high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, significantly impacting activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while Cs+ ions improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to 3% Pt-Al2O3, 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, and 3% Pt-SBA-15. The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to be the limiting factor.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreasing activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The pore geometry of the support materials plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, unlike high-acidity ZSM-5, reduce acid content and enhance surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and stability due to its enhanced coke capacity. The hierarchical-pores facilitate hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites, leading to increased conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The deactivation parameter is lower for PtSnNa/ZQ, indicating better resistance against coke formation. These findings highlight the importance of hierarchical-pore structures in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing stability and robustness even at high temperatures and over time. This unique pore structure aids in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, crucial for maintaining high selectivity and stability. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should focus on engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, achieving high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. This enhancement is attributed to the unique pore structure and the role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, demonstrating the critical impact of support pore structure on catalyst design and performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's influence on coke formation and accommodation is pivotal, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution, impacted by pore structure and reaction conditions, leads to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, significantly altering pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon, where open pores drop below a critical threshold, exacerbates activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation and catalyst resilience post-calcination. Incorporating Cs+ ions further improves regeneration stability. These findings underscore the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, emphasizing the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Tin addition to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying platinum's electronic properties. These insights are pivotal for designing effective catalysts with optimized pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to less coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less straightforward, as it is constrained by pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, with activity decreasing as pore size increases. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are more effective for DHP than mesoporous SBA-15, as they optimize catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry. Large pores in SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Pore structure significantly impacts coke formation in PDH reactions. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to be hierarchical decreases acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pores on microporous supports boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate more coke accommodation. Most modifications boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on supports improve performance due to coke transfer from metal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst support pore structures significantly influence coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall performance. ZSM-5 zeolite, despite common use, has high acidity leading to suboptimal coke management and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite modifies the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties, thus improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, facilitating the migration of coke precursors from metal to support. This design strategy optimizes catalyst performance in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite support the high stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, indicating the pore structure's role in accommodating structural changes, which impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Careful catalyst design, involving the selection and engineering of pore structures that accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability, is essential. The structural features of platinum-tin clusters, not immediately visible by conventional techniques but established through advanced methods, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina traditionally used in PDH rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt catalyst dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is evidenced by the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, which retains 8% propane conversion after 30 days, showcasing the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and the potential participation of Ga in catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's influence on coke formation and accommodation is pivotal, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, significantly impacting activity. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. Below a critical threshold of open pores, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing a significant loss in activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite boosts stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with confined metal species enhancing hydrogen generation and catalyst resilience. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability. These findings underscore the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and catalytic performance. These findings suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is constrained by pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreased activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, while modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance with increased total coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, exhibits high acidity, leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite modifies the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties. This significantly improves coke accommodation capacity and catalytic performance, as evidenced by increased propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates compared to ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores in ZQ are crucial for accommodating coke, promoting better resistance against coke formation. These findings underscore the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures and over time. This unique pore structure plays a critical role in suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, crucial for optimal catalyst design. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are key to minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability in PDH reactions. Engineering catalyst support pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation is essential for effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition. A mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced activity, selectivity, and durability. The addition of La and Y to the zeolite support improves Pt catalyst dispersion and stabilizes it in small nanoparticles, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and a high initial propane conversion of 40%, with slow deactivation over 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, distribution, and catalyst performance. The structure affects coke's non-uniform distribution and capacity to be contained, impacting reactant access when large pores are surrounded by plugged pores. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and making sites inaccessible when pores narrow and plug. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition improving catalyst stability. The introduction of Cs+ ions boosts regeneration stability, with catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, emphasizing the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These insights are crucial for designing effective catalysts with optimal pore structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke amount (5.5% wt/wt), compared to 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0%), 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6%), and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7%). The role of acidity is less clear, as its effect is constrained by pore size.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The study employs distinct pore geometries to assess their intrinsic impact on PDH, revealing that zeolites' active sites and three-dimensional pore geometry enhance catalytic performance, whereas large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce it. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, producing coke precursors. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke amount are beneficial. Unexpectedly good performance is observed when coke transfers from metal to support, increasing total coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, has high acidity leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite reduces acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, stability, and resistance to coke formation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, promoting the reduction of Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing easier migration of coke precursors to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced capacity to accommodate coke and resist its formation, offering implications for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, impacting coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite exhibit high stability, even at high temperatures, due to a few additional tin atoms. The structural features of these clusters, determined by advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have faced rapid deactivation due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is attributed to the unique pore structure and strong metal-support interactions, which stabilize the nanoparticles and slow down deactivation, as evidenced by the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst retaining 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and makes active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance, influencing optimal catalyst design. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as demonstrated by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in the design of effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with lower coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites contribute to superior catalytic performance. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structures significantly influence coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, faces issues with high acidity, leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite mitigates these issues by decreasing acidity and promoting surface properties, significantly enhancing coke accommodation capacity. Consequently, the PtSnNa/ZQ catalyst demonstrates superior performance in propane conversion to propene and improved stability, with a lower deactivation rate compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for accommodating coke more effectively, making the PtSnNa/ZQ catalyst more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influences coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in sinusoidal 10R channels show high stability in H2 at high temperatures, indicating the importance of pore structure in maintaining catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support dramatically improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quote 6, 7). This highlights the critical role of pore structure in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity over cycles, underscoring the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in PDH reactions reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance. The literature acknowledges the importance of these relationships but does not detail their implications for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The effect of acidity on coke formation is secondary, as pore size limitations restrict its influence.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, which shows the lowest activity. Coke formation is highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions and Pt particle size. The pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and their pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large cylindrical pores limit reactant-active site contact, reducing performance. Pore geometry plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Zeolites outperform SBA-15 in catalytic performance despite identical Pt content and particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better manage coke. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to conventional ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable coke precursor migration from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and promoting the reduction necessary for PDH. Sn oxides in the catalyst weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing adsorbed species to migrate more easily to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, offering insights for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite exhibit high stability at high temperatures and over extended periods, with a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions, maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt's rapid deactivation due to coke formation limits selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance and supports atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for surface silanol nests that enable this enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore structure playing a critical role. Confinement of metal species in zeolite channels boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the importance of pore structure in regeneration stability. These findings highlight the significance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. Specifically, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as its influence is constrained by pore size.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly affects activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows better stability with less coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like zeolites outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site properties. DHP performance variability is attributed to factors like catalyst composition and Pt particle size, crucial for activity and stability. Pore geometry, especially in zeolites, complements cation exchange sites, enhancing catalytic performance. Large pores in SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a critical role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals, influencing side reactions and coke precursor formation. Zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate higher coke accommodation. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ improve surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke deposition. The hierarchical-pores enable enhanced coke accommodation, while Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates improved resistance against coke formation, offering insights for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures, suggesting its role in accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation, guiding the design of optimal catalysts. Notably, the clusters remain stable in H2 over extended periods at high temperatures, with enhanced stability attributed to a few additional tin atoms. Structural features of PtSn clusters, though not immediately visible, are key to achieving lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic activity. Unlike traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina, which rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit improved PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The nanoparticles' formation throughout the zeolite support results in distinctive H2 sorption behavior and slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst may also contribute to its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting catalyst activity. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, a percolation phenomenon occurs, further reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation compared to acidic ones, by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These insights suggest strategies for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to lower coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in optimal catalyst design, where minimizing coke formation enhances overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites originates from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to include hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes, enhancing performance. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke are beneficial. The transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance when total cokes rise.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite reduces acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior propane conversion, selectivity, and stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5, with a lower deactivation rate. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ an optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures and over extended periods. This pore structure's ability to accommodate structural changes influences coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are critical for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions involves engineering catalyst support pore structures that can accommodate structural changes of active species while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 for over 6 hours at 600°C, indicating the importance of pore structure in maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina were used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores significantly improves PDH catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite enhances nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and improved activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly impact coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions into the zeolite maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts and its implications for optimal design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, as well as modifying the electronic properties of platinum. This knowledge is crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke yield decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship between pore size and coke formation is crucial for designing effective catalysts, as it indicates that smaller pore sizes can potentially enhance catalyst performance by reducing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreased activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are more effective for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and a three-dimensional pore geometry, enhancing catalytic performance. In contrast, SBA-15's large cylindrical pores and lack of cation exchange sites lead to lower performance. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, producing coke precursors. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports yield better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts than mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Effective modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, compared to ZSM-5, significantly improve coke accommodation and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke management, whereas ZQ's modified pore structure and reduced acid content enhance coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less external surface coke. The hierarchical-pores facilitate hydrogen spillover, reducing Pt oxides and stabilizing active sites. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal bonds, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced coke resistance and accommodation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in these structures exhibit high stability in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the importance of structural features in maintaining catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have faced issues with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced activity, selectivity, and durability. These nanoparticles, supported on degallated zeolite, show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles contributes to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, significantly impacting activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition improving catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions into the zeolite boosts regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved PDH reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by modifying electronic properties, facilitating coke transfer from metal to support. These insights suggest strategies for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes in catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3, 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, and 3% Pt-SBA-15 result in higher coke yields compared to larger pore sizes in 3% Pt-SiO2. This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke accommodation and optimizing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity, and coke formation. A study using TEOM reactor analysis on micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with larger pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-SBA-15. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The pore geometry of supports plays a critical role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals, influencing the competition between dehydrogenation and side reactions that produce coke precursors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly affects coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Most modifications enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly impact coke formation and accommodation in PDH reactions, improving catalyst performance. ZSM-5 zeolite, with high acidity, limits coke accommodation and stability. Hierarchical-pores in ZQ reduce acidity, enhancing surface properties and coke accommodation capacity. Coke deposits migrate from active metal to the support in PtSnNa/ZQ, boosting propane conversion and catalyst stability. Spillover hydrogen stabilizes active sites, increasing conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration, reducing deactivation and coke deposits. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The enhanced mobility of adsorbed species in PtSnNa/ZQ leads to better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are essential for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, a feature attributed to a few additional tin atoms. Their structural characteristics, though not immediately visible, are key to achieving a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Pore structure affects coke's non-uniform distribution, complicating the coking process when large pores become inaccessible due to surrounding plugged pores. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and makes active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. Confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in catalysts reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The effect of acidity on coke formation is less straightforward, as pore size limits the coke amount.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Smaller pores in Pt-ZSM-5 enhance propane conversion and selectivity compared to Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, despite higher coke formation. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability due to less coke formation. Three-dimensional microporous supports like Pt-ZSM-5 outperform mesoporous SBA-15, likely due to optimized Pt site properties. Contradictory performances of zeolites can be attributed to composition, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for activity and stability. Pore size increases from ZSM-5 to Beta to SBA-15. Zeolites offer superior catalytic performance due to cation exchange sites and pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's large pores limit reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry is crucial for deriving optimal catalytic properties. Zeolites show better catalytic performance than SBA-15, even with identical Pt content and particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, such as introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation. Smaller pore sizes, specifically microporous supports, enhance selectivity and stability while reducing coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke, improving catalyst performance. These findings suggest strategies for optimizing catalyst design by balancing pore structure characteristics to minimize coke formation and maximize activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity, leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, decreases acidity, and promotes surface properties, enhancing coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ shows significantly improved propane dehydrogenation performance and stability, with coke deposit migration from metal to support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for its enhanced coke accommodation capacity, resulting in better resistance against coke formation. Compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, and a lower deactivation parameter, indicating superior catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    