Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quote 6, 7). This zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, enhances metal dispersion and reactant/product diffusion, leading to a striking enhancement in PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition and catalyst stability post-calcination improving significantly. The addition of Cs+ ions into the zeolite boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles. These findings underscore the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, emphasizing the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation. This relationship is evident in the comparison of different catalysts, where 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke amount. The limitation of coke amount by pore size suggests a direct correlation between pore structure and coke accommodation, influencing overall catalyst performance. These insights are crucial for designing optimal catalysts with controlled pore structures to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical in determining DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. The superior performance of Pt supported zeolites is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Uniform, highly connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke, improving performance. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke amount are beneficial. The transfer of coke from metal to support unexpectedly boosts performance with higher total coke levels.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, decreases acidity, and promotes surface properties, significantly enhancing coke accommodation capacity. This modification results in better propane conversion and improved catalyst stability, as evidenced by the enhanced performance and stability of PtSnNa/ZQ compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for the catalyst's improved coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making it a superior choice for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a crucial role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are key to suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst, containing a small amount of Ga, exhibits high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests in the zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. Pore blockage leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The confinement of metal species within zeolite channels improves hydrogen generation and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions further boosts regeneration stability. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying electronic properties. These insights are crucial for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes correlate with reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in the design of effective catalysts for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation using micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites provide active sites associated with cation exchange and a three-dimensional pore geometry, enhancing catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures to be hierarchical decreases support acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Appropriate modifications often increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost when total cokes rise is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity hinders coke accommodation and stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly boosts coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ catalysts exhibit superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke migration from active metals to the support, promoting hydrogen spillover that stabilizes Pt oxides and active sites. This results in increased conversion and selectivity, reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface, and better resistance against coke formation. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing adsorbed species to migrate more easily to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique pore structure enhances the clusters' stability and robustness, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, which is crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The stability of PtSn clusters in H2, even at high temperatures, is attributed to a few additional tin atoms, and their structural features, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, are key to achieving lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have been used, but they suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is attributed to the unique pore structure and surface silanol nests enabling atomistic alloying, as evidenced by the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst's high initial conversion and slow deactivation rate.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters in S-1 zeolite boosts stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with confined metal species enhancing hydrogen generation and catalyst resilience post-calcination. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity over four cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance and the importance of pore characteristics in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as demonstrated by comparing different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is crucial for designing optimal catalysts with controlled pore structures to manage coke formation and enhance PDH reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with larger pore size. Pt-Beta shows better stability with less coke formation than Pt-ZSM-5, despite Pt-ZSM-5's superior selectivity. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, enhancing Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance originates from active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, producing coke precursors. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and catalyst performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods typically increase activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on supports improve performance due to coke transfer from metal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes this, decreasing acid content and improving surface properties, which greatly enhances coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ enables better propane conversion and improved catalyst stability, with coke deposits migrating from active metal to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for its enhanced coke accommodation capacity, leading to better resistance against coke formation and improved catalytic performance compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The conversion and selectivity of PtSnNa/ZQ are increased, and its deactivation parameter is significantly lower. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels in MFI zeolite, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, which is attributed to the addition of a few tin atoms. The unique structural features of these clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina were used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores significantly improves PDH catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y along with Pt into the zeolite enhances nanoparticle dispersion, resulting in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. The distribution of coke is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote [2]). Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates (Quote [4]). Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores (Quote [5]). The pore network structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial (Quote [6]). During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure (Quote [7]). A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores boosts stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The design of optimal catalysts should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, as these characteristics significantly influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These insights are pivotal for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly affects coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts like 3% Pt-Al2O3 and 3% Pt-SBA-15. This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance, as it directly influences coke accommodation and, by extension, overall catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated, showing that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-ZSM-5 had the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Pt-Beta exhibited better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles and pore geometry play crucial roles in determining DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and catalyst stability. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and the three-dimensional pore geometry of zeolites contribute to their superior catalytic performance. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower performance. These findings highlight the importance of pore geometry in deriving optimal catalytic properties for supported active metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, reduces acidity and inhibits coke formation, enhancing support capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes can lead to better performance due to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst support pore structures, notably hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite, significantly influence coke formation and accommodation. ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support, has high acidity, leading to suboptimal coke management and catalyst stability. Hierarchical-pores in ZQ modify the pore structure, reduce acidity, and enhance surface properties, improving coke accommodation. Coke deposits migrate from active metal to the support in PtSnNa/ZQ, boosting propane dehydrogenation performance and catalyst stability. The hierarchical-pores facilitate hydrogen spillover, stabilizing active sites and enhancing reaction efficiency. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits higher conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and reduced coke deposits compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in reactions with stable PtSn clusters, despite high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, traditionally used in PDH, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly improves catalyst durability and selectivity. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite enhances nanoparticle dispersion, leading to a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolite exhibit improved PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial, as coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the structure. Below a critical threshold of open pores, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in hydrogen generation and catalyst stability after calcination is critical. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in catalyst support for optimal PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts transfers coke from the metal to the support, improving coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and coke resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to lower coke yields, as demonstrated by the decreasing coke amount in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were compared, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability due to lower coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5 has superior selectivity despite higher coke content. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are more effective for PDH than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to factors like composition and Pt particle size. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties, with zeolites offering superior performance due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. On supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions compete with dehydrogenation, affecting catalyst stability. Despite similar Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Appropriate modifications typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in catalyst supports significantly impact coke formation and accommodation in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, affecting overall catalyst performance. ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, has high acidity, leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite modifies the pore structure, reducing acid content and enhancing surface properties, which greatly improves coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and catalyst stability due to the hierarchical-pores facilitating the migration of coke from active metal to the support. The spillover hydrogen promotes the reduction of Pt oxides and stabilizes active sites, increasing conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The deactivation parameter of PtSnNa/ZQ is lower, and the total coke deposits are less, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for enhanced coke accommodation, and the presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, particularly its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates the structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, the addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters enhances stability, and the structural features of PtSn clusters provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in PDH reactions while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The zeolite's ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boost catalytic activity, while the addition of La and Y enhances Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of Ga and surface silanol nests in the zeolite support plays a critical role in the enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings have implications for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke yield decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as its effect is limited by pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts DHP activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation over micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed decreasing activity with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 had the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Coke formation was highest on Pt-ZSM-5 and lowest on Pt-Beta, indicating better stability for Pt-Beta. Despite higher coke, Pt-ZSM-5 showed better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature enhancing Pt site properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites are attributed to factors like catalyst compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites with distinct pore geometries were used to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP. Superior catalytic performance of Pt supported zeolites is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large pores in Pt-SBA-15 may reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports lead to better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can accommodate more coke, improving performance. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while reducing coke are beneficial. The transfer of coke from metal to support contributes to improved performance when total coke increases.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support for PtSn-based catalysts significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance surface properties, facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This results in better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and reduced deactivation. The hierarchical-pores enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ a superior catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enhance the stability and robustness of PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, suggesting a link between pore structure and the accommodation of structural changes. This accommodation is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation, highlighting the importance of pore structure in designing effective catalysts. The stability of PtSn clusters in H2 at high temperatures, determined by the addition of a few tin atoms, and their structural features, which lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity, are key to understanding the comprehensive influence of pore structures on PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure boosts the durability and selectivity of the catalyst, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support. These nanoparticles exhibit distinctive H2 sorption behavior and a significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina were used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into the mesoporous zeolite improves Pt catalyst dispersion, stabilizing it in small nanoparticles, which unexpectedly increases catalytic lifetime more than tenfold. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions (Quote 2). Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process (Quote 3). This leads to changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates (Quote 4). Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores (Quote 5). The pore structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial (Quote 1). Coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure (Quote 7). A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to inaccessible active sites (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation and catalyst resilience. The addition of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin also modifies the electronic properties of platinum, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation, influencing catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The role of acidity in coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to limit coke amount.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly affects propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has superior selectivity and stability compared to Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to factors like compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. The size of Pt particles is critical in determining PDH activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites contribute to their superior catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can handle more coke, improving performance as coke transfers from metal to support. Optimal modification methods enhance activity and selectivity while minimizing coke.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite, used as a support for PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure in ZQ decreases acidity and promotes surface properties, facilitating better coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits improved propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and reduced coke deposits, especially on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores enable the migration of coke precursors from the metal surface to the support, stabilizing active sites and reducing carbon-metal bond formation. This results in a catalyst with enhanced coke accommodation capacity and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures, suggesting its role in accommodating structural changes that influence coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of PtSn clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Careful selection and engineering of catalyst support pore structures that can accommodate structural changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability are essential for optimal catalyst design. Notably, the subnanometric PtSn clusters remain stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, which is attributed to a few additional tin atoms added to the platinum clusters. The structural features of these clusters, while not immediately visible by conventional techniques, are key to achieving a lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts the performance of supported metals. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves Pt dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The initial use of PtSn on alumina for PDH led to rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. The mesoporous zeolite support, however, significantly improves catalyst durability and selectivity, as evidenced by the distinctive H2 sorption behavior and prolonged catalytic activity of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the catalyst support's pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Pore structure and reaction conditions determine coke's non-uniform distribution, impacting pore accessibility and reactant flow. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores. A percolation phenomenon, where open pore fraction drops below a critical level, further exacerbates activity loss. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while confinement boosts hydrogen generation rates. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying electronic properties. These findings have implications for designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, as evidenced by the decreasing coke amount in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1, 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations, affecting the verification of its impact.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. A study using a TEOM reactor on micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. These findings suggest that three-dimensional microporous materials are superior catalytic supports for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. The pore geometry of the support materials plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals, highlighting the importance of pore structure in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods often boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes transferred from metal to support can enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity hinders coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ enables better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and lower deactivation rates compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration from metal to support, stabilizing active sites and promoting Pt oxide reduction. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, PtSn clusters are stable in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, which is crucial for maintaining high catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores significantly improves PDH catalytic performance. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibit enhanced activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the degallated zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and renders active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in catalyst performance. The introduction of Cs+ ions into the zeolite further improves regeneration stability, underscoring the importance of pore structure characteristics in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. These insights suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke amount decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Smaller pores in Pt-ZSM-5 enhance propane conversion and selectivity compared to Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, despite higher coke formation. Pt-Beta exhibits better stability due to less coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 outperforms Pt-SBA-15 in selectivity and stability, despite more coke. Three-dimensional microporous supports like ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site properties. Catalyst performance variability can be attributed to compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance is linked to cation exchange sites and three-dimensional pore geometry, whereas SBA-15's cylindrical pores limit reactant-active site contact, reducing performance. Pore geometry is crucial for deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance over SBA-15, despite identical Pt content and similar particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Microporous supports for Pt catalysts offer better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate increased coke accommodation. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation capacity. This modification leads to better propane conversion and catalyst stability, as observed with PtSnNa/ZQ. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke from active metal to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and enhancing catalytic performance. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, making the catalyst more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite enhance the stability and robustness of subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, which is crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are key to minimizing deactivation rates while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity in PDH reactions. Designing optimal catalysts involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate structural changes of active species, minimize coke formation, and maximize selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt with La and Y into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The unique pore structure of these zeolites, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance and allows for slow deactivation, retaining high conversion rates even after extended reaction periods. This highlights the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, which is essential for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, causing a percolation phenomenon when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, significantly impacting activity due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. Metal species confinement boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Cs+ ion introduction maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst effectiveness. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification of electronic properties by tin allows for better catalytic performance. These insights suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with improved coke accommodation and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes result in lower coke yields, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship highlights the importance of pore size in managing coke accommodation and enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta, and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15 were evaluated, showing that activity decreases with pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 having the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with less coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials are superior for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes Pt site catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly affects coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Modification methods typically enhance activity and selectivity while reducing coke, with the transfer of coke from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, leading to better catalyst performance and resistance against coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. This is attributed to the unique pore structure and strong metal-support interactions, which stabilize the Pt nanoparticles and enable atomistic alloying of La and Y. The degallated zeolite support, containing residual Ga, plays a critical role in the catalytic function, as evidenced by the enhanced performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure's characteristics significantly influence coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores drops below a critical level, further impacting catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements significantly impact hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, guiding optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions compared to acidic supports. Adding tin to the platinum catalyst enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification also improves the electronic properties of platinum, further boosting coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by the comparison of different catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "Pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were studied, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites enhance catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, reduces acidity and inhibits coke formation, enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can handle more coke. Modifying pore structures typically boosts activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance as total coke increases.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. However, introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, enhances surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. This leads to better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and reduced deactivation compared to ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ enable better coke accommodation and resistance against coke formation, making PtSnNa/ZQ a superior catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite, with sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    