Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do various characteristics of catalyst support pore structures, such as pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements, influence coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the implications of these relationships for designing optimal and effective catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive influence of catalyst support pore structure characteristics on coke formation, accommodation, and overall catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, with implications for optimal catalyst design.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been used, but Pt alone deactivates quickly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support improves Pt catalyst dispersion, stabilizing it as small nanoparticles. This results in a significant increase in PDH catalytic lifetime and performance, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit enhanced activity, selectivity, and durability. Surface silanol nests play a critical role in enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition significantly improved. Calcination in industrial conditions boosts catalyst stability. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance and optimal design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke tolerance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints. These findings highlight the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical in determining DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. The study employs these materials to assess pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP. Active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry in zeolites enhance catalytic performance. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, modifying the pore structure of catalyst supports, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity and inhibits coke formation, enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores in Pt catalyst supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better manage coke. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly improves performance with higher total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst support pore structures significantly impact coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall performance. ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support, has high acidity, leading to suboptimal coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite modifies the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties, which greatly improves coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ catalyst demonstrates superior propane conversion and stability due to the hierarchical-pores facilitating coke migration from active metal to the support. This catalyst also exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and reduced coke deposits on the external surface compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The presence of Sn oxides weakens hydrocarbon-metal binding, promoting coke precursor migration to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are crucial for enhanced coke accommodation, making PtSnNa/ZQ more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports plays a significant role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric PtSn clusters, even at high temperatures over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. This suggests that optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should involve engineering catalyst support pore structures that can accommodate the structural changes of active species while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn catalysts on alumina have faced rapid deactivation due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating Pt with La and Y into a mesoporous zeolite support significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on the degallated zeolite exhibit a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. This enhancement is attributed to the unique structure of the zeolite and the strong metal-support interactions that stabilize small Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, further reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation and improves catalyst resilience under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, underscoring the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalysts. Optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while the addition of tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, as the modified electronic properties of platinum allow for better coke accommodation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly affects coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical in determining DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior performance may originate from active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may not provide the required contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower catalytic performance. The pore geometry of support materials plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Pore structure significantly impacts coke formation in PDH reactions. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke on metals and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pores in microporous supports yield better PDH selectivity, stability, and lower coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can handle more coke. Most modifications boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke, with coke transfer from metal to support contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to conventional ZSM-5 zeolite. The modified pore structure of ZQ decreases acidity, promoting surface properties and improving coke management. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits superior propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation rates and less coke deposition, especially on the external surface. The presence of hierarchical-pores facilitates the migration of coke precursors from active metals to the support, stabilizing Pt oxides and enhancing the catalyst's resistance against coke formation. Sn oxides in the catalyst weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, allowing adsorbed species to migrate more easily to the support. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates enhanced coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, offering insights for optimal catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, particularly the sinusoidal 10R channels of MFI zeolite, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these subnanometric clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should focus on engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. This zeolite, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic activity. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y into the mesoporous zeolite improves Pt dispersion, stabilizing it as small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, this not only enhances initial PDH activity but also increases catalytic lifetime tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite exhibit improved PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, impacting reactant access. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting catalyst activity. The pore network structure's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in hydrogen generation from formic acid decomposition and its impact on catalyst stability after calcination are significant. Cs+ ions in the zeolite improve regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst performance, guiding optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yield: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship is critical for optimal catalyst design, as it impacts coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like zeolites are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Contradictory DHP performances of different zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Zeolites' superior catalytic performance is linked to active sites associated with cation exchange sites and their three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce contact between reactants and active sites, leading to lower performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance improvement with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, compared to conventional ZSM-5 zeolite. ZSM-5's high acidity leads to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. In contrast, hierarchical-pores in ZQ decrease acid content, promoting surface properties and improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and catalyst stability, with increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposit on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores are responsible for enhanced coke accommodation, making PtSnNa/ZQ more resistant to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports plays a significant role in accommodating structural changes of PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. Notably, subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite channels exhibit high stability at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the importance of pore structure in maintaining catalytic activity and minimizing deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical pore structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances metal nanoparticle dispersion and reactant/product diffusion. This structure boosts catalytic performance, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, which exhibit improved PDH activity, selectivity, and durability. The addition of La and Y unexpectedly increased the catalytic lifetime by over tenfold, addressing the issue of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition on Pt surfaces. Surface silanol nests in the degallated zeolite enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for the high PDH catalytic performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Coke distribution is influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions, leading to non-uniformity. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This results in sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, affecting accessibility. The pore network's capacity to contain coke is crucial. During reactions, coke narrows and plugs pores, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, with pore structure playing a critical role. Confinement of metal species boosts hydrogen generation rates and improves catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions maintains catalytic activity through multiple cycles, highlighting the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. The addition of tin to platinum catalysts transfers coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This is due to tin's ability to modify the electronic properties of platinum, allowing for better coke accommodation. These relationships suggest strategies for designing optimal catalysts with improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, at TOS = 160 min, the coke yield decreases in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship between pore size and coke accommodation highlights the importance of pore structure in catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic properties due to their intrinsic nature. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, Pt supported on zeolites demonstrates superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly impacts coke formation and accommodation. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 decrease acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes on microporous supports improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts for Pt catalysts. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods typically boost activity and selectivity while reducing coke. The unexpected performance enhancement with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly improve coke accommodation and catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acidity of ZQ enhance the catalyst's coke capacity, leading to better propane conversion and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased conversion and selectivity, lower deactivation, and less coke deposition on the external surface than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors from the metal surface to the support, stabilizing the active sites and reducing coke formation. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation, offering implications for optimal catalyst design in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, MFI zeolite's unique pore structure accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are essential for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features, not immediately visible by conventional techniques, provide a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high intrinsic catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves dispersion, stabilizing Pt as small nanoparticles. This results in a tenfold increase in catalytic lifetime and a striking enhancement in PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. Surface silanol nests enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, significantly impacting activity. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing optimal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation, accommodation, and overall performance. Encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity, while the introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions, while adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation and yield, as evidenced by the decrease in coke amount in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 and 3% Pt-SBA-15 > 3% Pt-SiO2. This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in managing coke accommodation and overall catalyst performance, guiding optimal catalyst design. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly affects propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-porous Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and meso-porous Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with pore size. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation and best stability, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, offers better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous supports like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP performance, and pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and particle size, zeolite-supported Pt outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores accommodate more coke. Most modifications boost activity, selectivity, and reduce coke. Unexpectedly, increased total cokes on the support can enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common PtSn-based catalyst support, has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, promotes surface properties, and significantly improves coke accommodation. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits enhanced propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and better resistance against coke formation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports accommodates structural changes in subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters are critical for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. PtSn clusters' structural features, when combined with specific characterization techniques, provide lower deactivation rates while maintaining high catalytic activity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites improves catalyst dispersion and catalytic lifetime by over tenfold, as these REEs stabilize Pt in small nanoparticles. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation. Surface silanol nests in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, contributing to the high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Some large pores become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivates catalysts by covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows them and makes active sites inaccessible. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability after calcination is significant. Introducing Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. This modification of electronic properties by tin is crucial for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, impacting overall catalyst performance. Smaller pore sizes lead to reduced coke yield, as evidenced by comparing various catalysts: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). This relationship underscores the importance of pore size in designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials were studied using a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) reactor, revealing that activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties. Contradictory DHP performances of zeolites can be attributed to catalyst compositions, Si/Al ratios, and feed compositions. Pt particle size is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, coke formation, and stability. The pore size increases in the order: ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. The study systematically assesses pore geometry's intrinsic influence on DHP, with Pt supported zeolites outperforming Pt-SBA-15 due to active sites associated with cation exchange and three-dimensional pore geometry. Large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 reduce catalytic performance by limiting reactant-active site contact. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. On supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15, side reactions compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor formation. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites exhibits superior catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying pore structures, like introducing hierarchical pores in ZSM-5, decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite's high acidity negatively impacts coke accommodation and catalyst stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite decreases acidity, promoting surface properties and enhancing coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, improved catalyst stability, and lower deactivation compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration from metal to support, stabilizing active sites and reducing coke formation. This demonstrates the significance of pore structure in catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. These clusters' stability and selectivity are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, even at high temperatures over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports enhances catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina have been traditionally used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition. Using a mesoporous zeolite support with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boosts catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibiting enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Pore blockage by coke can render large pores inaccessible, complicating the coking process and leading to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which significantly alters pore network structure. When the fraction of open pores drops below a critical threshold, a percolation phenomenon occurs, causing a significant loss in activity due to inaccessible active sites and increased diffusion resistance.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite pores enhances stability and propylene selectivity. Pore structure significantly affects hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. Incorporating Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without altering catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in PDH catalyst performance, guiding optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "Non-acidic supports in PDH reactions reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Incorporating tin into the platinum catalyst facilitates coke transfer from metal to support, enhancing coke tolerance and performance. Tin modifies platinum's electronic properties, further improving coke resistance. The literature acknowledges the lack of detailed exploration into how these relationships inform optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size constraints.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size, structure, and connectivity, significantly impacts activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating decreased activity with larger pore sizes. Pt-Beta shows the least coke formation, suggesting better catalytic stability. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 offers superior selectivity and stability over Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are more effective for DHP than mesoporous SBA-15, due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. ZSM-5, Beta, and SBA-15 were chosen for their distinct pore geometries to systematically assess their intrinsic influence on DHP. The superior performance of Pt supported zeolites may be attributed to active sites associated with cation exchange and their three-dimensional pore geometry. In contrast, large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 may hinder reactant-active site contact, leading to lower catalytic performance. Pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions on ZSM-5 and SBA-15 compete with dehydrogenation, affecting coke precursor production. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle sizes, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly influences coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Modification methods that increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke amounts are beneficial. The unexpected performance boost with increased total cokes is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions compared to ZSM-5. By modifying the pore structure and decreasing acidity, ZQ improves the catalyst's coke capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion, selectivity, and stability, with lower deactivation rates. The hierarchical-pores are crucial for accommodating coke, stabilizing active sites, and reducing coke formation. This makes PtSnNa/ZQ a superior catalyst for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, even at high temperatures and over extended periods, are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should consider pore structures that can accommodate active species changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability. The unique structural features of PtSn clusters, revealed through advanced characterization techniques, contribute to a significantly lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolite supports boosts catalytic performance by facilitating diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn on alumina is used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into a mesoporous zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit enhanced performance, retaining high conversion rates even after prolonged reaction periods, highlighting the critical role of surface silanol nests in enabling atomistic alloying and the potential of degallated zeolites in advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, further impacting catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, encapsulating PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity. The pore structure's role in accommodating metal species and affecting hydrogen generation rates from formic acid decomposition is critical. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without altering catalytic activity. These findings highlight the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in catalyst support for optimal PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support. This modification also improves electronic properties, further boosting catalytic efficiency. These findings have implications for designing optimal catalysts with enhanced coke accommodation and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) and 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5). The effect of acidity on coke amount is less clear due to pore size limitations, highlighting the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Pt-ZSM-5 exhibits the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15, indicating that activity decreases with increasing pore size. Pt-Beta shows better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, whereas Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15 in activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of the support significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller micropores on Pt catalysts improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke compared to mesopores. Supports with uniform, highly connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Most modification methods boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. Unexpectedly, transferring coke from metal to support enhances performance with increased total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalyst stability compared to ZSM-5, which has high acidity leading to unsatisfactory performance. The introduction of hierarchical-pores in ZQ decreases acid content, promoting surface properties and improving coke accommodation. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and stability, with lower deactivation parameters and less coke deposit on the external surface. The hierarchical-pores facilitate the migration of coke precursors to the support, stabilizing active sites and reducing coke formation. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior capacity to accommodate coke and resist its formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the unique pore structure of MFI zeolite, specifically its sinusoidal 10R channels, accommodates the structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and robustness even at high temperatures. This accommodation potentially influences coke formation and catalyst performance. The addition of a few tin atoms to platinum clusters significantly boosts stability in H2 over extended periods, even at 600°C. The structural features of these clusters, though not immediately visible, are key to achieving a one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate while maintaining high catalytic activity. These insights suggest that optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions should focus on engineering support pore structures that can accommodate active species' changes while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of siliceous MFI zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and providing high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditionally, PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina have been used, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. A mesoporous zeolite support, with ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, boosts catalytic performance. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into this zeolite improves catalyst dispersion, stabilizing Pt in small nanoparticles. Surprisingly, the addition of La and Y increased the catalytic lifetime more than tenfold. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite showed enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with a high initial propane conversion of 40% and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst may also contribute to catalytic function. The high PDH performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa is attributed to surface silanol nests enabling atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, impacting accessibility. Changes in pore structure due to coke plugging can render some large pores inaccessible, altering macroscopic properties. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore structure significantly impacting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability. The introduction of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings underscore the importance of pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements in the design of optimal PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support, modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings suggest strategies for designing more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke formation, with smaller pores leading to lower coke yields. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear, as pore size appears to be the limiting factor. Hierarchical arrangements, connectivity, and uniformity of pore structures also play roles in coke accommodation and overall catalyst performance, crucial for designing effective catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (DHP) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Evaluation over micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials revealed decreasing activity with increasing pore size: Pt-ZSM-5 showed the highest propane conversion, followed by Pt-Beta and Pt-SBA-15. Pt-Beta exhibited better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, had better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta outperform mesoporous SBA-15 due to their intrinsic nature, which optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. Factors such as catalyst compositions and Pt particle size also influence DHP performance. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. Active sites associated with cation exchange sites and the three-dimensional pore geometry of zeolites contribute to superior catalytic performance, whereas large cylindrical pores in Pt-SBA-15 lead to lower performance. The pore geometry of supports plays a crucial role in deriving optimum catalytic properties of supported active metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, zeolite-supported Pt shows superior catalytic performance compared to mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5's pore structure to introduce hierarchical pores decreases acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesoporous supports. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate cokes. Modification methods often increase activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. The unexpected performance boost when total cokes rise is attributed to coke transfer from metal to support.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "Hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support improve coke accommodation and stability in PtSn-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. ZSM-5 zeolite, with high acidity, limits coke management and catalyst longevity. In contrast, ZQ's modified pore structure, reduced acid content, and enhanced surface properties significantly boost coke accommodation. Coke deposits on PtSnNa/ZQ migrate from active metal to the support, enhancing propane conversion and catalyst stability. Spillover hydrogen stabilizes active sites, increasing conversion and selectivity compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The deactivation parameter is lower for PtSnNa/ZQ, with less coke on the external surface. Hierarchical-pores in ZQ enable better coke management and resistance to coke formation, while Sn oxides weaken hydrocarbon-metal binding, facilitating coke precursor migration to the support. Large pores anchor platinum particles, inhibiting agglomeration and increasing catalyst stability. The modified acidity of ZQ allows hydrocarbons to form fewer carbon-metal bonds, enhancing mobility and migration to the support.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of MFI zeolite supports the stability of subnanometric PtSn clusters at high temperatures, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The unique arrangement accommodates structural changes, crucial for stability and robustness. PtSn clusters' stability and selectivity are vital for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. The addition of a few tin atoms to Pt clusters enhances stability in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods. Advanced characterization reveals structural features that reduce deactivation rate by an order of magnitude while maintaining high catalytic activity, essential for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports significantly influences catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. Traditional PtSn catalysts on alumina deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene (Quote 2, 3). Incorporating Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles into a mesoporous zeolite support dramatically improves PDH activity, selectivity, and durability (Quotes 6, 7). This zeolite's ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores boost catalytic performance, making it a superior alternative to alumina support.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, which narrows and eventually plugs them, altering the pore network structure. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical threshold, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore confinement boosting hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability under industrial conditions. The addition of Cs+ ions improves regeneration stability without affecting catalytic activity. These findings highlight the critical role of pore structure in PDH catalyst performance, suggesting that optimal catalyst design should consider pore size, connectivity, uniformity, and hierarchical arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports minimize coke formation by reducing cracking and polymerization reactions. Adding tin to platinum catalysts shifts coke from the metal to the support, improving coke tolerance and performance. This highlights the importance of pore structure characteristics in catalyst design for enhanced PDH reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke amounts. For instance, 3% Pt-SiO2 exhibits the least coke formation compared to other catalysts with larger pore sizes. The exact role of acidity in this context is less clear, as pore size appears to be the limiting factor for coke accommodation. These findings highlight the importance of pore size in catalyst design for optimal PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly influences propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity, and coke formation. Among micro-(Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-(Pt-SBA-15) porous materials, activity decreases with increasing pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with the least coke formation, while Pt-ZSM-5, despite higher coke content, shows better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 and Pt-Beta are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for DHP due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15, and the pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving the optimum catalytic properties of supported metals. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt supported on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation. Modifying ZSM-5 with hierarchical pores reduces acidity, inhibiting coke on the metal and enhancing coke capacity. Smaller pore sizes in microporous supports improve Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke. Supports with uniform, well-connected, and larger pores can better accommodate coke. Modification methods often boost activity and selectivity while decreasing coke. Transferring coke from metal to support unexpectedly enhances performance with increased total cokes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, hierarchical-pore structures in ZQ zeolite support significantly enhance coke accommodation and catalytic performance compared to high-acidity ZSM-5. The modified pore structure and decreased acid content in ZQ improve surface properties, enabling better coke management and stability. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits increased propane conversion, selectivity, and lower deactivation rates than PtSnNa/ZSM-5. The hierarchical-pores facilitate coke precursor migration from metal to support, stabilizing active sites and reducing coke formation. This highlights the importance of pore structure in designing effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, like MFI zeolite, influences coke formation and performance by accommodating structural changes in PtSn clusters. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, confined in sinusoidal 10R channels, are crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation. Optimal catalyst design involves engineering pore structures that minimize coke formation while maximizing selectivity and stability. Subnanometric PtSn clusters show high stability in H2 at high temperatures over extended periods, indicating the importance of structural features in maintaining catalytic activity and reducing deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure of zeolite catalyst supports, featuring ultrathin frameworks and interconnected mesopores, significantly boosts catalytic performance by facilitating reactant and product diffusion and enhancing metal nanoparticle dispersion. This structure, when used instead of alumina, improves catalyst durability and selectivity. PtSn bimetallic catalysts on alumina, while initially active, deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Incorporating La and Y with Pt into mesoporous zeolites enhances dispersion and catalytic lifetime, with Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing remarkable PDH performance, including high initial conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. Surface silanol nests in degallated zeolites enable atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles, critical for high PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore network structure of catalyst supports significantly influences coke formation and accommodation, affecting overall catalyst performance. Coke distribution is non-uniform, influenced by pore structure and reaction conditions. Large pores can become inaccessible when surrounded by plugged pores, complicating the coking process. This leads to sudden changes in macroscopic properties like effective diffusivity and reaction rates. Coke deactivation occurs through covering active sites, increasing diffusion resistance, and blocking pores, rendering active sites inaccessible. As coke narrows and plugs pores, the pore network structure changes, impacting catalyst activity. A percolation phenomenon occurs when the fraction of open pores falls below a critical level, causing significant activity loss due to increased diffusion resistance and inaccessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.16410"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometer PtZn clusters within S-1 zeolite enhances stability and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions, with pore structure critical for hydrogen generation rates and catalyst stability post-calcination. Cs+ ions in the zeolite improve regeneration stability, underscoring the importance of pore structure in optimal catalyst design for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003349"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, non-acidic supports reduce coke formation by minimizing cracking and polymerization reactions, unlike acidic supports. Adding tin to platinum catalysts enhances coke tolerance and performance by transferring coke from the metal to the support and modifying the electronic properties of platinum. These findings are pivotal for designing effective catalysts with improved coke accommodation and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, pore size significantly impacts coke yield, with smaller pores leading to lower coke formation. This is evident in the order: 3% Pt-Al2O3 (19.0) > 3% Pt-Al2O3-1 (9.6) > 3% Pt-SBA-15 (9.7) > 3% Pt-SiO2 (5.5) at TOS = 160 min. The influence of acidity on coke formation is less clear due to pore size limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4"},
{"DOC": "The pore geometry of catalyst supports, including size and structure, significantly impacts propane dehydrogenation (PDH) activity, selectivity to propylene, and coke formation. Micro-porous (Pt-ZSM-5, Pt-Beta) and meso-porous (Pt-SBA-15) materials were studied, revealing that activity decreases with larger pore size, with Pt-ZSM-5 showing the highest propane conversion. Pt-Beta exhibits better catalytic stability with less coke formation compared to Pt-ZSM-5. Despite higher coke content, Pt-ZSM-5 has better selectivity and stability than Pt-SBA-15. Three-dimensional microporous materials like Pt-ZSM-5 are superior to mesoporous SBA-15 for PDH due to their intrinsic nature that optimizes catalytic properties of Pt sites. The size of Pt particles is critical for DHP activity, selectivity, and stability. The pore size order is ZSM-5 < Beta < SBA-15. The study systematically assesses the intrinsic influence of pore geometry on PDH, indicating that pore geometry plays a crucial role in deriving optimal catalytic properties of supported metals. Undesired side reactions compete with dehydrogenation on supports like ZSM-5 and SBA-15. Despite identical Pt content and similar particle size, Pt on zeolites outperforms mesoporous SBA-15.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst support pore structure significantly impacts coke formation and PDH performance. Hierarchical pore modifications in ZSM-5 reduce acidity, inhibiting coke formation and enhancing coke accommodation. Smaller micropores boost Pt catalyst selectivity, stability, and reduce coke amounts compared to mesopores. Uniform, well-connected, and larger pores facilitate greater coke accommodation. Appropriate modifications typically enhance activity, selectivity, and reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_3"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, ZSM-5 zeolite, a common support for PtSn-based catalysts, has high acidity, leading to unsatisfactory coke accommodation and stability. Introducing hierarchical-pores in ZQ zeolite changes the pore structure, reducing acidity and enhancing surface properties, significantly improving coke accommodation capacity. PtSnNa/ZQ exhibits better propane conversion and stability, with coke deposit migrating from active metal to the support. The hierarchical-pores of ZQ are responsible for enhanced coke accommodation, resulting in lower deactivation and less coke deposit on the external surface compared to ZSM-5. Consequently, PtSnNa/ZQ demonstrates superior coke accommodation and resistance to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/jctb.4686"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the pore structure of catalyst supports, exemplified by MFI zeolite's sinusoidal 10R channels, plays a critical role in accommodating structural changes of subnanometric PtSn clusters, influencing coke formation and catalyst performance. The stability and selectivity of these clusters, crucial for suppressing deactivation and coke formation, are enhanced by the unique pore structure, which allows for structural accommodation during reactions. Careful design of catalyst support pore structures can minimize coke formation, maximize selectivity and stability, and lower deactivation rates by a factor of ten while maintaining high catalytic activity, as evidenced by the behavior of PtSn clusters under high temperatures and extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    