<quotes>

[1] "There are two major pathways for carbon formation: The tendency to form carbon on the catalyst surface depends on reaction kinetics, process conditions (temperature, pressure flow rates), and reformer design."
[2] "These carbon-forming reactions are delicately balanced by carbon-consuming reactions such as in eqs 3 and 4, which are also dependent upon reaction kinetics, process conditions, and reactor design."
[3] "In fact it has been proposed that the working commercial SMR-reduced Ni catalyst is coated with a working layer of carbon."
[4] "Commercial approaches to minimize potential carbon formation include high ratios of steam to hydrocarbon, the continual addition of ppm levels of sulfur compounds to the feed stream, the addition of alkali promoters, and added support phases such as MgAl spinel."
[5] "Issues of thermodynamics and heat transfer restrict operating temperatures. Membrane reactors have been considered as alternatives. However, these are not easily scaled-up and are currently unreliable."
[6] "Furthermore, they are too expensive to operate because H2 must be utilized in these reactors at elevated pressure and the cost of the required compression is prohibitive."
[7] "A significant part of the catalyst loaded into tubular reformers is unused or poorly utilized because heat transfer is often the limiting factor."
[8] "Engineering design advances are needed and are being pursued, such as heat exchange reformers or alteration of the catalyst geometry."
[9] "Operation of steam reformers for CO production is also limited by metal dusting arising from the production of CO and its reaction with the nickel alloys of the reactor tubes at 650 C."
[10] "The use of ex-situ surface science methods to better understand the working catalysts is hampered by the extreme temperatures (850 C) and pressures (400 psig) needed for operation of current commercial catalysts."
[11] "The lifetime of the catalyst is an important criterion in evaluating new catalysts with respect to current commercial SMR technologies; claims of superior catalytic performance must be verified by operation at the high pressures and temperatures of conventional processes for extended periods, i.e., thousands of hours."
[12] "Of particular value would be a simple, accelerated aging test that allows assessment of catalyst life in hours or days rather than the usual period of months."
[13] "Other promising research areas include understanding catalyst sintering, sulfur poisoning, and metal dust formation."
[14] "Since sulfur is present in many of the feedstocks, additional research efforts should address sulfur removal as well as the development of more sulfur-tolerant catalysts."
[15] "A further understanding of metal dust formation and corrosion of the reactor system is needed as well as an understanding of those factors that contribute to methane decomposition to elemental carbon."
[16] "Major improvements in the current technologies could be realized with new catalysts that optimize CO2 and/or H2O adsorption, enhance surface reactions, or inhibit the formation of elemental carbon."
[17] "Better methods for the transfer of heat into the reactor, including novel catalyst shapes, are needed to impact overall yield and process performance."
[18] "In addition, there is a need to develop nonconventional approaches to H2 generation."
[19] "Plasma decomposition of methane to carbon has been explored."
[20] "However, the inherent energy-intensive nature of this approach makes its commercial viability questionable."
[21] "Operating SMR in a cyclic mode, that is, separating the decomposition of methane to carbon and H2 from the water/carbon reaction has been demonstrated in the laboratory to generate CO-free hydrogen."
[22] "However, large-scale development and lifetime tests have not been carried out."
[23] "The advantage of this methodology is the possibility of coupling H2 synthesis with fuel-cell power generation, which requires H2 with CO levels typically below 20 ppm."
[24] "In any case, in all approaches to the generation of H2 from hydrocarbons, a very important issue is carbon formation and its transformation into an inactive form that leads to excessive carbon buildup."
[25] "There are a number of emerging and attractive approaches to H2 production."
[26] "However, the greatest opportunities with respect to CO2 production are those nonfossil fuel-based H2 technologies where major breakthroughs are needed."
[27] "In considering new technologies for H2 production, one must consider the integrated process, that is, the separation and purification steps, the net energy demands and balance, the quality of the feed, etc."
[28] "Ultimately, the route chosen to produce H2 will depend not only upon the technological advances, but also on the economics, the related environmental issues, and the market demands."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers a potentially attractive means for the production of alkenes. The central issue is how to achieve a high yield of propene while avoiding the combustion of propane or propene to CO2. Many oxide catalysts exhibit high alkene selectivity at very low alkane conversion levels, but all show a decrease in alkene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. The decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support. Current understanding of the elementary processes involved in both the formation of alkenes and their subsequent combustion is limited. In particular, there is a lack of understanding concerning the relationships of catalyst composition and structure to catalyst activity and selectivity. Knowledge of these relationships would be very useful for guiding the modification of existing catalysts and for the synthesis of totally new classes of catalysts. Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UV-visible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Values of the rate coefficients for the oxidative dehydrogenation processes were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UV-visible absorption band edge energy. While the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains. The interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms collectively influence the process efficiency. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by allowing for the control of the local environment around the active sites, which can affect the selectivity of the reaction.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的氧化脱氢（ODH）为烯烃的生产提供了一种潜在的有吸引力的方法。主要问题是如何在避免丙烷或丙烯燃烧至CO2的同时，实现丙烯的高产率。许多氧化物催化剂在非常低的烷烃转化水平下表现出高烯烃选择性，但所有催化剂在烷烃转化增加时，烯烃选择性都会下降。随着支持物碱性的增加，随着烷烃转化的增加，烯烃选择性的下降减少。目前，关于烯烃形成及其随后燃烧的基本过程的理解有限。特别是，关于催化剂组成和结构与催化剂活性和选择性之间的关系的理解不足。这些关系的知识对于指导现有催化剂的修改和全新催化剂的合成非常有用。最近，对于金属氧化物支持的钒酸盐，关于催化剂结构和性能之间的关系取得了一些进展。制备了一系列V2O5重量负载从1%到15%的催化剂，然后通过X射线吸收、拉曼光谱、紫外-可见吸收光谱和EXAFS进行表征。氧化脱氢过程的速率系数的值被确定，并作为与紫外-可见吸收带边能量相关的钒酸盐域大小的函数进行检查。虽然k1的值随着域大小的增加而增加，但k2/k1的比值减少，k3/k1的比值与域大小无关。这些结果表明，ODH需要大的钒酸盐域。丙烯燃烧也优先发生在大的多钒酸盐域上，但丙烷燃烧优先发生在较小的域上。各种催化剂之间的相互作用、实现高选择性和转化的挑战以及提出的反应机制共同影响过程效率。位点隔离通过允许控制活性位点周围的局部环境，从而影响反应的选择性，在解决选择性问题中发挥作用。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
