<quotes>

[1] "There are two major pathways for carbon formation: The tendency to form carbon on the catalyst surface depends on reaction kinetics, process conditions (temperature, pressure flow rates), and reformer design."
[2] "These carbon-forming reactions are delicately balanced by carbon-consuming reactions such as in eqs 3 and 4, which are also dependent upon reaction kinetics, process conditions, and reactor design."
[3] "Issues of thermodynamics and heat transfer restrict operating temperatures. Membrane reactors have been considered as alternatives. However, these are not easily scaled-up and are currently unreliable."
[4] "Furthermore, they are too expensive to operate because H2 must be utilized in these reactors at elevated pressure and the cost of the required compression is prohibitive."
[5] "A significant part of the catalyst loaded into tubular reformers is unused or poorly utilized because heat transfer is often the limiting factor."
[6] "Engineering design advances are needed and are being pursued, such as heat exchange reformers or alteration of the catalyst geometry."
[7] "Operation of steam reformers for CO production is also limited by metal dusting arising from the production of CO and its reaction with the nickel alloys of the reactor tubes at 650 C."
[8] "Operating outside the regimes for metal dust formation offers advantages of safer operation, lower costs, and corrosion avoidance."
[9] "The use of ex-situ surface science methods to better understand the working catalysts is hampered by the extreme temperatures (850 C) and pressures (400 psig) needed for operation of current commercial catalysts."
[10] "The implementation of in-situ surface science techniques to monitor catalyst performance should be explored (see Section V)."
[11] "For example, ultraviolet Raman, 30 sum frequency generation, 31 and synchrotron-based methods such as X-ray scattering 32 could be applied toward these kinds of systems at extreme process conditions."
[12] "At the fundamental research level, there is a need for in-situ catalyst characterization at >20 atm, the actual process pressure."
[13] "In the United States, with the exception of several industrial laboratories, there are few facilities that have capabilities for studying and testing reforming catalysts under actual process conditions."
[14] "The lifetime of the catalyst is an important criterion in evaluating new catalysts with respect to current commercial SMR technologies; claims of superior catalytic performance must be verified by operation at the high pressures and temperatures of conventional processes for extended periods, i.e., thousands of hours."
[15] "Of particular value would be a simple, accelerated aging test that allows assessment of catalyst life in hours or days rather than the usual period of months."
[16] "Other promising research areas include understanding catalyst sintering, sulfur poisoning, and metal dust formation."
[17] "Only 50% of the fuel used to heat SMR reactors is actually used to make H2; the balance of the heat energy is recovered in steam, which is then sold to other customers but is not typically useful for making additional H2."
[18] "Research to discover a more efficient way to utilize the energy in SMR operations (e.g., heat exchange reformers) is needed to reduce costs and CO2 production."
[19] "Sintering of active Ni metal particles limits current catalyst performance; thus, a better understanding of the factors that impact this aspect of catalyst behavior would be highly desirable."
[20] "Since sulfur is present in many of the feedstocks, additional research efforts should address sulfur removal as well as the development of more sulfur-tolerant catalysts."
[21] "A further understanding of metal dust formation and corrosion of the reactor system is needed as well as an understanding of those factors that contribute to methane decomposition to elemental carbon."
[22] "Major improvements in the current technologies could be realized with new catalysts that optimize CO2 and/or H2O adsorption, enhance surface reactions, or inhibit the formation of elemental carbon."
[23] "Current reformers are heat-transfer-limited rather than catalyst-limited and are loaded with large excesses of catalyst because of the space velocities utilized."
[24] "Better methods for the transfer of heat into the reactor, including novel catalyst shapes, are needed to impact overall yield and process performance."
[25] "In addition, there is a need to develop nonconventional approaches to H2 generation."
[26] "Plasma decomposition of methane to carbon has been explored."
[27] "However, the inherent energy-intensive nature of this approach makes its commercial viability questionable."
[28] "Operating SMR in a cyclic mode, that is, separating the decomposition of methane to carbon and H2 from the water/carbon reaction has been demonstrated in the laboratory to generate CO-free hydrogen."
[29] "However, large-scale development and lifetime tests have not been carried out."
[30] "The advantage of this methodology is the possibility of coupling H2 synthesis with fuel-cell power generation, which requires H2 with CO levels typically below 20 ppm."
[31] "In any case, in all approaches to the generation of H2 from hydrocarbons, a very important issue is carbon formation and its transformation into an inactive form that leads to excessive carbon buildup."
[32] "There are a number of emerging and attractive approaches to H2 production."
[33] "However, the greatest opportunities with respect to CO2 production are those nonfossil fuel-based H2 technologies where major breakthroughs are needed."
[34] "In considering new technologies for H2 production, one must consider the integrated process, that is, the separation and purification steps, the net energy demands and balance, the quality of the feed, etc."
[35] "Ultimately, the route chosen to produce H2 will depend not only upon the technological advances, but also on the economics, the related environmental issues, and the market demands."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers a potentially attractive means for the production of alkenes. The central issue is how to achieve a high yield of propene while avoiding the combustion of propane or propene to CO2. The decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support for supported metal oxides. The relationships of catalyst composition and structure to catalyst activity and selectivity are limited. The use of ex-situ surface science methods to better understand the working catalysts is hampered by the extreme temperatures and pressures needed for operation of current commercial catalysts. The implementation of in-situ surface science techniques to monitor catalyst performance should be explored. Issues of thermodynamics and heat transfer restrict operating temperatures. Membrane reactors have been considered as alternatives, but they are not easily scaled-up and are currently unreliable. They are too expensive to operate because H2 must be utilized in these reactors at elevated pressure and the cost of the required compression is prohibitive. A significant part of the catalyst loaded into tubular reformers is unused or poorly utilized because heat transfer is often the limiting factor. Engineering design advances are needed, such as heat exchange reformers or alteration of the catalyst geometry. Operation of steam reformers for CO production is also limited by metal dusting arising from the production of CO and its reaction with the nickel alloys of the reactor tubes at 650 C. Operating outside the regimes for metal dust formation offers advantages of safer operation, lower costs, and corrosion avoidance. The lifetime of the catalyst is an important criterion in evaluating new catalysts with respect to current commercial SMR technologies. Of particular value would be a simple, accelerated aging test that allows assessment of catalyst life in hours or days rather than the usual period of months. Other promising research areas include understanding catalyst sintering, sulfur poisoning, and metal dust formation. Research to discover a more efficient way to utilize the energy in SMR operations is needed to reduce costs and CO2 production. Sintering of active Ni metal particles limits current catalyst performance. Since sulfur is present in many of the feedstocks, additional research efforts should address sulfur removal as well as the development of more sulfur-tolerant catalysts. A further understanding of metal dust formation and corrosion of the reactor system is needed as well as an understanding of those factors that contribute to methane decomposition to elemental carbon. Major improvements in the current technologies could be realized with new catalysts that optimize CO2 and/or H2O adsorption, enhance surface reactions, or inhibit the formation of elemental carbon. Current reformers are heat-transfer-limited rather than catalyst-limited and are loaded with large excesses of catalyst because of the space velocities utilized. Better methods for the transfer of heat into the reactor, including novel catalyst shapes, are needed to impact overall yield and process performance. In any case, in all approaches to the generation of H2 from hydrocarbons, a very important issue is carbon formation and its transformation into an inactive form that leads to excessive carbon buildup. There are a number of emerging and attractive approaches to H2 production. However, the greatest opportunities with respect to CO2 production are those nonfossil fuel-based H2 technologies where major breakthroughs are needed. In considering new technologies for H2 production, one must consider the integrated process, that is, the separation and purification steps, the net energy demands and balance, the quality of the feed, etc. Ultimately, the route chosen to produce H2 will depend not only upon the technological advances, but also on the economics, the related environmental issues, and the market demands.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的氧化脱氢（ODH）为生产烯烃提供了一种潜在的有吸引力的方法。主要问题是如何在避免丙烷或丙烯燃烧为CO2的同时，实现丙烯的高产率。对于负载金属氧化物，随着烷烃转化率的增加，烯烃选择性的下降随着支撑物碱性的增加而减少。催化剂组成和结构与催化剂活性和选择性之间的关系有限。使用离位表面科学方法来更好地理解工作催化剂受到当前商业催化剂所需极端温度和压力的阻碍。应探索在位表面科学技术以监测催化剂性能。热力学和传热问题限制了操作温度。膜反应器已被考虑为替代方案，但它们不易放大且目前不可靠。它们的运行成本过高，因为在这些反应器中必须在升高的压力下使用H2，所需压缩的成本是禁止的。由于传热通常是限制因素，因此装入管式重整器的催化剂的很大一部分未使用或使用不当。需要工程设计进步，例如热交换重整器或催化剂几何形状的改变。由于CO的产生及其与650 C下反应器管的镍合金的反应，蒸汽重整器用于CO生产也受到金属粉尘的限制。在金属粉尘形成区域之外运行提供了更安全操作、更低成本和腐蚀避免的优势。催化剂的寿命是评估与当前商业SMR技术相关的新型催化剂的重要标准。特别有价值的是一个简单的加速老化测试，允许在几小时或几天内评估催化剂寿命，而不是通常的几个月时间。其他有希望的研究领域包括理解催化剂烧结、硫中毒和金属粉尘形成。需要研究以发现更有效利用SMR操作中能量的方法，以降低成本和CO2生产。活性Ni金属颗粒的烧结限制了当前催化剂的性能。由于许多进料中存在硫，因此额外的研究工作应解决硫去除以及开发更耐硫的催化剂。需要进一步了解金属粉尘形成和反应器系统的腐蚀，以及那些导致甲烷分解为元素碳的因素。通过优化CO2和/或H2O吸附、增强表面反应或抑制元素碳的形成，新型催化剂可以实现现有技术的重大改进。当前的重整器受到传热限制，而不是催化剂限制，并且由于使用了空间速度，因此装载了大量过量的催化剂。为了影响整体产率和过程性能，需要更好的方法将热量传递到反应器中，包括新型催化剂形状。在任何情况下，在从烃类生成H2的所有方法中，一个非常重要的问题是碳形成及其转化为导致碳过度积累的非活性形式。有几种新兴和有吸引力的H2生产方法。然而，就CO2生产而言，最大的机遇在于那些非化石燃料基H2技术，其中需要重大突破。在考虑H2生产的新技术时，必须考虑集成过程，即分离和纯化步骤、净能量需求和平衡、进料质量等。最终，选择生产H2的路线不仅取决于技术进步，还取决于经济、相关环境问题和市场需求。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
