element not found

Industrial & Engineering Chemistry ResearchVol 42/Issue 8Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
ARTICLENovember 8, 2002
Supported Bimetallic Cluster Catalysts
O. S. Alexeev
B. C. Gates*
Open PDF
Abstract
We review synthesis, structural characterization, and catalysis by supported bimetallic clusters. Initial steps in the preparations include (a) adsorption of molecular metal clusters with preformed metal−metal bonds; (b) synthesis in zeolite cages; and (c) adsorption of a metal complex on a supported complex or cluster of another metal. Chemisorption capacities of supported oxophilic metal−noble metal clusters for hydrogen and CO are typically less than those of supported clusters of just the noble metal. Catalytic properties distinguishing supported bimetallic clusters from monometallics include high selectivities for oxygenates in CO hydrogenation and different selectivities for C═O vs C═C bond hydrogenation. Advantages of precise synthesis with organometallic precursors (smallness and uniformity of the supported clusters with bonds between the two metals) are offset by the expensive preparations and difficulty of catalyst regeneration. Applications of supported bimetallic clusters are most likely in specialty chemicals production or with stable combinations of oxophilic and noble metals.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2003 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Bimetals
Catalysts
Metal Clusters
Metals
Platinum
1. Introduction
Supported metals are among the most important catalysts used in technology and, increasingly, these are bimetallic, usually incorporating at least one metal from the platinum group. Supported bimetallics used in large-scale processes include the Re−Pt, Sn−Pt, and Ir−Pt catalysts for naphtha reforming and the Rh−Pt and other catalysts for conversion of automobile exhaust.
The catalytic behavior of a supported metal is influenced by the size of the metal particles and by their interactions with the support and other catalyst components such as a second catalytic metal, which could be a promoter. The second metal may influence the first metal through electronic interactions or be involved in the reaction by bonding directly to reactants or intermediates. Often, the interactions between the two metals are complex and largely unknown, and consequently there are excellent opportunities for preparing bimetallic catalysts with new properties.
Sinfelt and co-workers (1,2) reported extensive investigations of supported catalysts incorporating combinations of metals, including Ni, Ru, Os, Pt, Ru, Pd, Cu, and Au. Some of these metals are miscible in the bulk and some are not. A pair of metals that is not miscible in the bulk may form monophasic alloylike structures if the particles are small enough; thus, supported bimetallics that are highly dispersed provide opportunities for new structures and catalytic properties that are not available when the metals are in low dispersions. (1,2)
It was found that highly dispersed supported Cu−Ni or Cu−Ru catalysts are several orders of magnitude less active than Ni or Ru alone, respectively, for hydrogenolysis of hydrocarbons. (1,3) Cu markedly affects the activity of the highly dispersed catalysts for hydrogenolysis, whereas it only slightly affects the activity for cyclohexane hydrogenation. (1) Such observations by the Sinfelt group1,3 and others 4 led to the insight that some catalytic reactions require ensembles (e.g., of Ru atoms or Ni atoms for hydrogenolysis) that incorporate a certain number of metal atoms in a specific coordination, although other reactions (such as hydrogenation) have no such requirements, perhaps requiring only single metal atoms as catalytic sites.
The second metal may substantially suppress the amount of hydrogen chemisorbed on the surfaces of bimetallic particles, much as it affects the catalytic properties for some reactions. (1,4) Such results demonstrate connections between chemisorption and catalytic reaction on bimetallic particles. (1,4)
Some bimetallic catalysts have better thermal stabilities and resistance to deactivation than catalysts incorporating only the single metals. For example, supported Ir−Pt catalysts are more resistant to oxidative agglomeration than supported Ir catalysts, (1) and supported Re−Pt catalysts are more tolerant of carbonaceous residues than supported Pt. (1,5,6)
A reactive atmosphere may substantially influence the surface composition of a bimetallic particle. If reactants interact strongly as ligands with just one of the metals, the surface tends to be enriched in that metal even when it is not predominant on the surface in an inert atmosphere. (1) The differences between bulk and surface structures of bimetallics are expected to increase with decreasing particle size. It is the uniqueness of structure and reactivity that provides much of the motivation for investigation of the most highly dispersed bimetallic catalysts.
These catalysts─bimetallic clusters─are the focus of the following review, in which we summarize recent work on (a) preparation methods, (b) structural characterization, with emphasis on the interactions between the two metals and between the metals and the supports, and (c) evidence of new catalytic properties. Sinfelt defined bimetallic clusters as highly dispersed metallic entities having an average size of about 10−50 Å. (1) In this review we focus on bimetallic species smaller than about 10 Å in diameter and incorporating only tens of atoms or fewer, and in the following we restrict the term “cluster” to such small species, using the terms “aggregate” and particle for larger species. Some of the smallest supported bimetallic clusters have relatively simple and uniform structures, and we emphasize them because they provide a particularly good basis for understanding of the structures and their influence on the catalytic properties; they also offer good prospects as selective catalysts.
2. Preparation of Supported Bimetallic Catalysts
Procedures summarized here for the preparation of supported catalysts incorporating more than one metal are classified as follows:  (a) conventional impregnation of the support with metal salts or other metal-containing compounds, (b) assembly of bimetallic species on the support by controlled surface reactions, (c) ship-in-a-bottle synthesis of bimetallic clusters in zeolite cages, and (d) synthesis of clusters on supports from molecular heterometallic cluster precursors. These initial preparation steps are usually followed by further treatments to activate the catalyst.
2.1. Conventional Impregnation Techniques. Sequential adsorption, ion exchange, or deposition of two precursors from solution (almost always aqueous) on the support and, alternatively, incipient wetness impregnation of the support with a solution of the precursors are the most rapid, inexpensive, and frequently used procedures for preparation of supported bimetallic catalysts. The preparations are simple and do not require complicated equipment. The influence of the temperature, pH, solvent, etc., on the processes is described elsewhere. (7) Because the metal particles in catalysts prepared by these conventional methods are often relatively large in comparison with the clusters that are the focus of this review, we describe the preparations only briefly. The terms used here apply to the procedures employed rather than to specifics of the surface chemistry.
Typically, the precursors in solution do not interact strongly with each other, and so the selective formation of bimetallic species is not expected during the deposition or impregnation step. However, in the next preparation step(s), when the sample is usually calcined and/or reduced at elevated temperatures, supported species typically have enough mobility to migrate on the support, interact with each other, and form bimetallic particles. Low concentrations of bimetallic species on the support and varied compositions of these species (present in mixtures with monometallic species) make it difficult to identify them and determine their structures precisely. Consequently, there is much to be learned yet about the structure−catalytic property relationships of these materials. We neglect them here; the literature4 provides more information.
2.2. Controlled Assembly of Bimetallic Species on Oxide Surfaces. Significant effects of a second metal on catalytic and other properties of a supported metal are anticipated when the interactions between the two metals are maximized. Of particular interest are bimetallics prepared by sequences of surface reactions designed to create these interactions.
One such method for preparing highly dispersed bimetallics involves the anchoring of a complex of a noble metal to the low-valent cations of an oxophilic metal grafted to a support. (8) The method (Figure 1) is illustrated for the formation of Zr−Pd sites formed in a sequence of reactions taking place on a silica support. The procedure involves several steps, the first being the interaction of the metal complex incorporating the first element [in this case Zr(C3H5)4] in an organic solvent (n-pentane) with the surface hydroxyl groups of silica. The reaction typically leads to the formation of site-isolated metal complexes with covalent bonds between the metal ion and oxygen atoms of the support. The formation of the surface metal complex is often accompanied by the release into the liquid or gas phase of ligands or species formed from them (and possibly from surface groups). In the example of Figure 1, the species released are formed from allyl ligands and surface OH groups. (8) Depending on the reactivity of the metal complex, the reaction with surface hydroxyl groups may be sufficient to give a support surface covered with a monolayer of the metal complex.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the controlled assembly of bimetallic species on oxide surfaces.
Subsequent treatment in H2 at elevated temperatures may be carried out to remove organic ligands from the supported metal complex and to form low-valent coordinatively unsaturated cations bonded to the support. It is essential that the covalent bonds between the metal ions and the oxygen atoms of the support be strong if the metal complex is to be anchored during the treatment. Coordinatively unsaturated cations stabilized by their attachment to a relatively rigid support are evidently highly reactive surface functional groups.
These surface cations can interact with complexes of a group VIII metal (e.g., Ni, Pd, Pt, etc.) to form adducts (Figure 1) incorporating two metals. The bonding between the two metals should be strong enough to keep the bimetallic complex intact after removal of the ligands, which is usually required for activation of the catalyst.
This kind of catalyst preparation, like the others described below, must usually be carried out in the presence of nonaqueous solvents or with gas-phase reactants and under conditions that minimize contamination with air or moisture. The concentration of bimetallic sites in a catalyst prepared in this way may be much higher than that in a sample made conventionally.
It is crucial for the success of such a preparation that the second metal complex introduced onto the surface react selectively with the metal centers already anchored to the support rather than with the support itself. It is difficult to prepare the first anchored surface species so selectively that all of the metal atoms are bonded firmly to the support and all of the reactive hydroxyl groups of the support are removed; if the latter remain, they are a potential target for the second metal complex. Consequently, monometallic species are potential contaminants in the catalysts. Supported bimetallics formed by this method may be treated in H2 to give bimetallic clusters or particles (Figure 1), which might be quite small. They are not generally expected to be uniform in structure, as are formed by migration and aggregation on the support surface.
A related approach to the preparation of highly dispersed supported bimetallics involves the reaction of metal complexes with supported metal clusters or particles. The method is based on the idea that by careful choice of the metal complex and control of the reaction parameters it may be possible to cause the metal complex to react selectively with the supported metal but not with the support surface. (9) For example, interactions of the complex Sn(C4H9)4 with the surface hydroxyl groups of SiO2, γ-Al2O3, or silica−alumina are observed at temperatures of about 150 °C or higher, but the reaction of the tin complex with reduced metal particles on the supports takes place even at room temperature. (9) Thus, the selective preparation of the bimetallic is carried out at temperatures between room temperature and 150 °C.
Such a catalyst preparation procedure typically includes several steps, as shown schematically in Figure 2. First, supported clusters of the noble metal are formed on the support (e.g., SiO2, γ-Al2O3) from anchored noble metal complexes that are treated (typically in H2 or under vacuum at elevated temperatures or by a sequence of oxidation and reduction steps) to effect ligand removal and aggregation of the metal. Subsequent contact of the sample with Sn(C4H9)4 results first in physisorption of Sn(C4H9)4 on the support [a result of van der Waals interactions between the support hydroxyl groups and the butyl groups; this interpretation is supported by IR spectra of the species on SiO2, for which a strong shift to lower wavenumbers of the νOH band (from 3760 to 3700 cm-1) was observed]. (9) The physisorbed complex migrates from the support to the metal surface, for which it has a strong affinity. (9) Butyl ligands on the tin can then be removed by thermal treatment, leading to the formation of dibutyl, monobutyl, and even totally debutylated tin species on the metal clusters. The resultant materials could incorporate tin either on or within the noble metal clusters. In either case, the interactions between tin and the noble metal atoms are expected to remain intact after dealkylation of the tin species.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Synthesis of bimetallics by reaction of Sn(n-C4H9)4 with supported metal clusters.
Depending on the size of the noble metal clusters or particles, it is possible to prepare samples in which the noble metal is covered with as much as nearly a monolayer of tin. Sn/Pts ratios (the subscript s refers to surface) as high as 3 can be obtained in a catalyst made from Pt/SiO2 without substantial introduction of tin onto the support. (10) These results suggest that, in the presence of excess tin tetraalkyl, further anchoring reactions take place that lead to multilayer coverage of the Pt by tin tetraalkyl. On the basis of observations that the formation of multilayers is strongly enhanced in the presence of H2, it was suggested that H2 reacts with the monolayer tin alkyl to cause dealkylation and formation of coordinatively unsaturated tin species in the first layer that are capable of interacting readily with tetraalkyltin to form a second layer, and so forth.
Removal of ligands from such multilayered bimetallic structures by treatment in H2 led to the formation of supported bimetallics having unique catalytic properties, and oxygen treatment resulted in a new catalytic material in which supported Pt clusters are believed to be covered by tin cations. (10) The catalytic properties are summarized in a following section.
2.3. Ship-in-a-Bottle Synthesis of Bimetallic Clusters in Zeolites. Zeolites are appealing supports for the preparation of extremely small and uniform metal clusters because their well-defined crystalline structures provide matrixes for the synthesis of highly dispersed (and potentially structurally simple) catalysts. Faujasite supercages are approximately 12.5 Å in diameter and separated by apertures with diameters of about 7.5 Å. A precursor small enough to pass through the apertures is sorbed in the supercages of a zeolite, and subsequent treatment may lead to the formation of larger metal clusters or particles. These are, in prospect, limited in size by the supercage diameter, and they may be too large to pass through the apertures, becoming trapped in the cages. Complications may arise as smaller species are transported out of the zeolite pores and onto the exterior surfaces or as the encaged structures grow too large to fit and cause the zeolite crystallites to burst.
For example, bulky metal carbonyl clusters such as Ir4(CO)12 and Rh6(CO)16, with diameters of about 9 and 12 Å, respectively, cannot be introduced directly into the pores of faujasites because the apertures are too small. However, these clusters can be synthesized in the cages by the reductive carbonylation of smaller molecular precursors such as Ir(CO)2(acac) or Rh(CO)2(acac), which diffuse readily into the cages. (11)
Bimetallic clusters also can be assembled in zeolite cages. For example, Rh6-xIrx(CO)16 clusters of various compositions (with x ranging from 1 to 4) were evidently prepared by the reductive carbonylation at temperatures in the range of 150−227 °C of Rh3+ and Ir4+ that had been introduced into zeolite NaY by ion exchange. (12−14) Decarbonylation of these clusters in O2 followed by reduction with H2 at 450 °C led to the formation of highly dispersed Rh−Ir clusters.
Ship-in-a-bottle syntheses of bimetallic carbonyl species in zeolites have been reported for various precursors. For example, infrared data indicate the reductive carbonylation of Ru3+ exchange ions in zeolite NaY or zeolite NaX, together with Co2(CO)8 that had been deposited in the zeolite pores from a pentane solution; treatment with a mixture of CO and H2 at 50 °C is inferred to have resulted in the formation of HRuCo3(CO)12. (15) Similarly, [Rh4Fe2(CO)16]2- entrapped in zeolite NaY was evidently made by the interaction of Fe2(CO)9 and zeolite-anchored Rh(CO)2 species formed from Rh4(CO)12 at 80 °C in a vacuum. (13) The decarbonylation of HRuCo3(CO)12 and of [Rh4Fe2(CO)16]2- in zeolites led to the formation of highly dispersed Co−Ru and Fe−Rh clusters of less than about 10 Å in average diameter.
To form highly dispersed bimetallic species inside the zeolite framework, it is not always necessary to go through a step resulting in the formation of zeolite-entrapped bimetallic carbonyls. 129Xe NMR and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra show that simultaneous ion exchange of Cu2+ and Pt(NH3)42+ into zeolite NaY followed by treatments in O2 and H2 at 300 °C led to the formation of Cu−Pt clusters with Cu atoms concentrated on the surface. (16) Re−Pt clusters in the supercages of zeolite NaY were made by chemical vapor deposition of Re2(CO)10 on prereduced Pt clusters acting as nucleation sites for the decomposition of the metal carbonyl. (17)
Thus, the available data indicate that the zeolite entrapment techniques provide efficient methods for preparing highly dispersed supported bimetallics in high yields, higher than would be expected from conventional catalyst preparations.
2.4. Synthesis of Supported Bimetallic Catalysts from Molecular Cluster Precursors. The use of molecular bimetallic clusters with preformed bonds between metals of different properties is another promising method for the preparation of highly dispersed supported bimetallic catalysts. Cluster compounds can potentially be formed from many elements of the periodic table. Recent developments in synthetic organometallic chemistry provide a wide variety of heteroatomic metal clusters of various sizes incorporating two or even three different metals bonded to each other. (18)
Besides preformed metal−metal bonds, the molecular bimetallic cluster precursors offer other advantages. Typically, they incorporate metals in low oxidation states, so that relatively low temperatures can be used in the catalyst activation steps, such as those to remove ligands from the metals and possibly reduce them; consequently, the metal−metal bonds may be preserved. Depending on the cluster composition, potential contaminants or poisons of the catalyst remaining from precursor ligands containing chlorine, phosphorus, or sulfur might be removed as well (this topic is addressed below). Furthermore, geometric features of bimetallic cluster precursors could in prospect be retained in the supported bimetallic catalysts, perhaps resulting in well-dispersed and nearly uniform bimetallic species, which might be expected to be selective catalysts.
This catalyst preparation method typically involves the adsorption of a bimetallic cluster precursor on a support followed by an activation step, intended to remove ligands from the cluster frame, usually by treatment in an inert atmosphere or H2. It is often considered desirable to maintain the heteroatomic metal cluster frame on the support to maximize the metal dispersion and the interactions between the two metals. A number of examples of relatively precise syntheses that (nearly) meet this goal have been reported; because they are a principal focus of this review, they are addressed in several of the following sections. In this section, we address the more complicated (and typical) preparations that lead to substantial changes in the metal frame as supported bimetallics are prepared from molecular bimetallic precursors.
Meeting the goal of precise synthesis without changes in the metal frame is challenging, because either the adsorption or the activation step may lead to cluster breakup and possibly aggregation of the metals on the support. For example, Me3SnCo(CO)4 (Me is methyl) was adsorbed in zeolite NaY without substantial breaking of the Sn−Co bond and then decarbonylated in a vacuum at 300 °C with formation of alloylike Sn−Co species incorporating not more than about 10 atoms each, as shown by EXAFS spectra; evidently, only slight aggregation of the metal occurred. (19)
However, contrasting examples illustrate that the cluster frame may be drastically altered and that the interactions of the bimetallic cluster precursor with a support often result in structural and chemical modifications. For example, disintegration of the metal cluster frame was observed for Fe2Ru(CO)12, FeRu2(CO)12, and H2FeRu3(CO)13 on γ-Al2O3; the resulting supported species were Run+(CO)2 complexes and Fen+ ions. (20) In the other cases, the interaction of the cluster precursor with the support results in increased cluster nuclearity (the number of metal atoms in the cluster), presumably sometimes preceded by cluster breakup. For example, RuCo2(CO)11 transforms readily into RuCo3(CO)12 on γ-Al2O3. (21) Pt3(μ-CO)3(PPh3)3 is converted into Pt5(μ-CO)5(CO)(PPh3)4, with the conversion being dependent on the nature and pretreatment of the support─and even the type of solvent used in the impregnation step. (22) In more extreme (but not unusual) cases, the clusters aggregate into rather large metal particles.
The fact that a cluster precursor may be adsorbed intact on a support does not necessarily imply that the bimetallic interaction is preserved during ligand removal. For example, EXAFS data show that [Et4N]2[Fe2Ir4(CO)16] and [Et4N]2[Fe2Ir2(CO)12] (Et is ethyl) could be adsorbed intact on MgO and decarbonylated in H2 at 350 °C, with the Fe−Ir cluster frame being largely retained. (23) On the other hand, when the support was SiO2, the treatment in H2 led to complete disintegration of the Fe−Ir cluster frame and formation of aggregated particles of Fe and Ir metal, largely segregated from each other. (23)
These examples demonstrate that the preparation of highly dispersed supported bimetallic catalysts from molecular bimetallic cluster precursors is challenging and typically requires precise syntheses, usually found by trial-and-error experimentation.
3. Structures and Properties of Supported Bimetallic Clusters
3.1.Clusters of Group VIII Metals. Among the supported bimetallics that are best investigated and most like monophasic alloys are the ones that are relatively large (about 20−30 Å or more in diameter) and contain two platinum-group metals (e.g., Ir and Pt). These have properties not greatly different from those of the bulk metals.
Significant differences between bulk bimetallic monophasic alloys and supported bimetallic particles have been demonstrated, (1,24,25) and the differences are expected to increase as the particles become smaller (less bulklike) and interact more strongly with the supports. Lots of new territory remains to be charted in the realm of the smallest clusters. Supported clusters of two group VIII metals that are too small to have bulklike properties are largely unexplored.
There are only a few reports of extremely small bimetallic clusters (those with fewer than about 10 metal atoms per cluster) in which both metals belong to the group VIII. Some of the closest approaches to such small clusters are provided by the work of the following:
(a) Pignolet's group, (24−26) who used Pt−Au clusters with acetylide ligands to make silica-supported bimetallics. The average aggregates observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were about 25 Å in diameter, containing several tens of atoms.
(b) The group of Thomas and Johnson, (27) who used [Pd6Ru6(CO)24]2- to make mesoporous silica-supported aggregates, found by TEM and EXAFS spectroscopy to be about 17 Å in average diameter.
(c) Hills et al., (28) who used PtRu5C(CO)16 and also Pt2Ru4(CO)18 to make supported bimetallics, which again were relatively large in our context (10−15 Å in average diameter).
In contrast, extremely small γ-Al2O3-supported Ru−Pt clusters were made by decarbonylation of molecularly adsorbed Pt2Ru4(CO)18 on γ-Al2O3 in He or H2 at temperatures in the range of 300−400 °C. (29) Infrared and EXAFS data show that the majority of the bimetallic cluster precursors were only weakly adsorbed on γ-Al2O3, interacting by hydrogen bonding through their carbonyl ligands with support hydroxyl groups. The weakness of the cluster−support interactions allowed retention of the cluster frame in the supported clusters (which could be recovered from the surface by extraction with CH2Cl2). The data also indicate that a minority of the bimetallic clusters interacted strongly with the support, likely forming some partially decarbonylated surface species of unknown structure as a result of nucleophilic displacement of carbonyl ligands by surface hydroxyl groups.
Small structural changes of the cluster core occurred upon decarbonylation in He or H2 at 300−400 °C, as indicated by changes in the Pt−Pt and Ru−Ru bond distances relative to those of the fully carbonylated clusters. The average Pt−Pt bond distance increased from 2.66 to 2.69 Å, and the Ru−Ru distance decreased from 2.83 to 2.64 Å. Nevertheless, the bimetallic cluster frame remained only slightly changed after full decarbonylation, as evidenced by the presence of strong Ru−Pt EXAFS contributions observed at both Pt LIII and Ru K edges. Average Pt−Pt and Ru−Ru coordination numbers characterizing the decarbonylated species were found to be only 2.0 and 4.0, respectively, signifying extremely high dispersions of the resulting supported bimetallic species. From these coordination numbers, it follows that decarbonylated clusters incorporated, on average, less than three and six Pt and Ru atoms, respectively; these are the smallest supported bimetallic clusters of group VIII metals yet reported. The high dispersion is believed to be the result of strong interactions between Pt and Ru atoms and the strong interactions with the γ-Al2O3 support, which limit the surface mobility of the metals.
In contrast, Hills et al. (28) used the same precursor and carbons as their supports, and carbon does not bond as strongly to the metals as metal oxides such as γ-Al2O3, which explains the relatively large bimetallic aggregates observed by Hills et al. Evidently, the silica supports used by Pignolet24-26 and Thomas and Johnson27 do not bond very strongly to the metals either, as shown by the aggregation of the metals in their samples.
The metals in almost all bimetallics reported in the preceding paragraphs of this section were evidently zerovalent. However, metals in bimetallics may have various oxidation states and interactions with the support, especially when they are present in extremely small clusters. This point is illustrated well by supported bimetallics consisting of metals from different groups in the periodic table, such as a group VI and group VIII metals (e.g., W−Pt) as discussed in the next section. These are unlikely to be alloylike, because the group VI metal is oxophilic and stable as cations and possibly segregated from the platinum-group metal. Even when both metals are from the platinum group, however, they may have different oxidation states. For example, in auto exhaust catalysts, the supported Rh may be partly cationic and partly zerovalent while the Pt is zerovalent, except at its surface. (30) Even Ru−Pt blacks used in methanol fuel cells are not single-phase metallic materials but instead are mixtures of Pt metal, Pt hydrous oxides, and hydrous and dehydrated RuO2. (31) Only a small fraction of the Ru is present in a metallic form. Nanoscale Pt metal−RuOxHy boundaries may be required to achieve high catalytic activity. (31)
3.2.Noble Metal−Oxophilic Metal Clusters. Supported catalysts made from molecular clusters containing both oxophilic and noble metals have frequently been found, upon activation to remove ligands, to give segregated metals on the support surface. Commonly, the noble metal aggregates into monometallic clusters and the oxophilic metal into oxide-like species. Because there are almost no bimetallic interactions in these materials, we neglect them here.
However, when the preparation conditions are sufficiently mild and the two metals are strongly enough bonded to each other, the oxophilic metal−noble metal bonds may remain largely intact in the activated catalyst. Such catalysts are the subject of the following section.
When a noble metal−oxophilic metal combination is present in a supported catalyst and the clusters are extremely small (e.g., less than about 10 atoms each), the two metals may be present in the same clusters. In these catalysts, at least on oxide supports, the oxophilic metal is generally cationic and present largely between the zerovalent noble metal and the support. It evidently has a stronger affinity for the support than for the noble metal.
Illustrations of methods for understanding structures of extremely small bimetallic catalysts are provided by recent work on the noble metal−oxophilic metal catalysts reported by several groups. (32−39) This work shows the advantages of using organometallic compounds with preformed metal−metal bonds as catalyst precursors. Combinations of metals such as Mo−Pt, W−Pt, Mo−Pd, and Cu−Ru have been used to prepare some of the smallest known supported bimetallic clusters, including those containing as few as about 4−6 noble metal atoms. (32,34,36,37) EXAFS data indicate that the bimetallic interactions help to stabilize the noble metal in a highly dispersed state. Some of these clusters are maintained intact even at 400 °C in the presence of oxygen. (32) According to structural models (e.g., Figure 3) based on EXAFS data, (32,34−37) the oxophilic metal ions are bonded strongly to the support and also to the noble metal, holding it in a kind of nest and stabilizing it. (32) Thus, the dispersion of the noble metal is maintained even under harsh conditions of oxidation or reduction.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Simplified structural model of a bilayer consisting of Mo ions interacting with a MgO support and providing a nest for highly dispersed Pd clusters. According to this model, the cationic Mo is strongly bonded to the support and helps to maintain the dispersion of the Pd.
A similar structural model was proposed for γ-Al2O3-supported Re−Pt catalysts prepared by decarbonylation of Re2Pt(CO)12. (6) On the basis of EXAFS data, the surface species in these samples were modeled as nearly molecular clusters in which Re interacts strongly with the oxygen atoms of the support as well as with the Pt (Figure 4).
Figure 4
Figure 4. Simplified model based on EXAFS data of Re4Pt2 clusters formed on the surface of γ-Al2O3 from Re2Pt(CO)12 clusters. (6)
The reports of such small supported bimetallic clusters refer primarily to oxophilic metal−platinum-group metal combinations. The literature makes clear the advantage of bimetallic compounds with preformed metal−metal bonds as precursors of such catalysts; to our knowledge, they have not been made any other way.
4. Chemisorption on Highly Dispersed Bimetallic Clusters
Measurements of the chemisorption of hydrogen and/or CO are commonly made to determine the dispersions of supported metals. Reliable dispersion data can be obtained when the stoichiometry of chemisorption is known. Many relatively simple γ-Al2O3-, MgO-, and SiO2-supported Pt catalysts, for example, chemisorb one H atom or one CO molecule per exposed Pt atom, consistent with dispersions measured by techniques such as temperature-programmed desorption (TPD), (40) EXAFS spectroscopy, (40) and TEM. (26)
The reported chemisorption data indicate that the amount of hydrogen or CO chemisorbed on supported bimetallics of various compositions is substantially less than what might have been expected on the basis of the metal dispersion alone. For example, the H/Pt and CO/Pt values characterizing highly dispersed W−Pt clusters on γ-Al2O3, prepared from PtW2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PhCN)2 and reduced at 400 °C, were found to be 0.12 and 0.16, respectively. (32) Similarly, W−Pt clusters on γ-Al2O3, made from Pt2W2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PPh3)2, after reduction at 400 °C showed H/Pt and CO/Pt values as little as 0.10 and 0.19, respectively. (32)
Comparisons of the chemisorption capacities with the Pt dispersions determined by EXAFS spectroscopy for these two catalysts show that the coverage of the Pt was always less than 20 and 50%, respectively, regardless of the treatment conditions. (32)
Similarly, low chemisorption capacities were observed for MgO-, SiO2-, and carbon-supported Pt or Pd catalysts incorporating cations of oxophilic metals such as W, Mo, Ti, Zr, and Hf, (8,32−37,41−43) cations of rare-earth metals such as La, Ce, Pr, Sm, Dy, Ho, Tm, and Yb, (44) or other metals such as Au and Cu. (24−26,45)
The following generalization is supported by the available data:  regardless of the nature of the support, the noble metal, or the second metal, low values of hydrogen and CO chemisorption (relative to what would be expected for the monometallic noble metal catalysts) have generally been observed for highly dispersed bimetallic catalysts derived from molecular cluster precursors or other organometallic compounds. This observation leads to the inference that the chemisorption capacity of a noble metal in an extremely small bimetallic cluster is influenced by the oxophilic metal-noble metal interactions.
It seems to be significant that changes in the evacuation conditions can alter the chemisorptive properties of these materials. For example, when the reduction of CuPt/SiO2 with H2 was followed by evacuation at a temperature lower than the reduction temperature, the chemisorption capacities were typically higher than those characterizing the sample evacuated at the reduction temperature. (25) It was suggested that the high evacuation temperature might have caused some reversible morphological changes in the bimetallic particles whereby the noble metal became buried in the coinage metal. (25)
Inasmuch as bimetallic catalysts prepared from organometallic precursors and having noble metal−oxophilic metal interactions appear generally to have relatively low chemisorption capacities, it is reasonable to suggest that residues such as carbon resulting from the decomposition of organic ligands or CO during the catalyst activation might have been present and caused some blockage of access of adsorbates to the noble metal surface. However, a series of experiments reported for the molecular cluster-derived W−Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts mentioned above showed that the chemisorptive properties of Pt in these samples were hardly affected by O2/H2 treatments, even at temperatures expected to be high enough to remove any deposits. (32) It was concluded that such deposits were not the cause of the low capacities for chemisorption of hydrogen and CO.
On the other hand, some data32,34 demonstrate that incorporation of W cations in the samples reduces the capacities for hydrogen and CO chemisorption on Pt, with the reductions being maximum for the samples in which Pt and W are in closest contact with each other (as evidenced by EXAFS data). TPD of H2 gave results showing that the molecular cluster-derived W−Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts were characterized by narrow and nearly coverage-independent desorption energy distributions that are consistent with the presence of nearly uniform and energetically homogeneous desorption sites in the bimetallic samples, in contrast to those observed for Pt/γ-Al2O3. (46) It was also found that the slope of the nearly linear plot of the logarithm of the preexponential factor for desorption vs desorption energies (indicating a compensation effect) is correlated with the strength of the interactions between W ions and Pt atoms in the samples. (46)
Thus, it is seems likely that the W−Pt interactions at least in part account for the low platinum chemisorption capacities. However, we judge that more research is needed for a better understanding of the low chemisorption capacities.
Several possibilities come to mind to explain them, including an effect of the high metal dispersion. The H to surface metal atom ratios characteristic of supported Pt, for example, approach unity as the particle size becomes smaller, but for some metals (e.g., Ir), values even larger than 1 have been observed. (47) In this regard, reports indicating low H/Ir values for MgO- and γ-Al2O3-supported Ir clusters incorporating only of about four atoms each are of interest. (48−51) It is still not evident why such small Ir clusters chemisorb less hydrogen than larger Ir particles or bulk Ir. It was suggested that small Ir clusters dispersed on a support could be regarded as quasi-molecular and not metallic in character, with the properties being different from those of metal particles. (51) However, the question of how small a supported metal cluster should become to lose its metallic properties remains open. Furthermore, it would be premature to rule out the possibility that some carbon from the CO ligands in the precursor remained on these monometallic clusters after decarbonylation. This possibility remains for supported monometallics, because they are not as resistant to sintering as the bimetallics in which the noble metal is “nested” in oxophilic species (Figures 3 and 4) and therefore cannot be heated to such high temperatures to remove the ligands without loss of structural integrity. However, recent EXAFS data indicate that all of the CO ligands could be removed from monometallic clusters in some samples. (52)
Another possibility is that hydrogen from OH groups on the support surfaces migrates onto the metal clusters, where it is tightly held and not removed by evacuation in the pretreatment of the samples for chemisorption measurements (this is reverse spillover of the hydrogen). Thus, the chemisorption data would not reflect the capacities of initially ligand-free clusters.
In summary, the data indicate relatively low chemisorption capacities of supported noble metals interacting with oxophilic metals in small clusters. The reduced capacities may be attributed to the influence of the oxophilic metals, and they suggest that the reactivities of the noble metals in bimetallic clusters incorporating oxophilic metals may be substantially different from those of the supported noble metals alone on the supports. The suggested influence of the second metal on the chemisorption implies an influence of the second metal on the reactivity and catalytic properties of the noble metal.
5. Catalytic Properties of Highly Dispersed Supported Bimetallics
Combinations of metals provide unique catalytic properties that are not available when only single metals are used. In this section, we review recently reported catalytic properties of some of the most highly dispersed supported bimetallic clusters. Our intent is not to identify the best combinations of metals for any particular catalytic reactions but rather to consider various reactions as potential probes to provide evidence of interactions between the metals in bimetallic clusters and to indicate new catalytic properties.
5.1. CO Hydrogenation. Highly dispersed SiO2-supported Ni, Pd, and Pt catalysts incorporating a group IV element such as Ti, Zr, or Hf and prepared by decomposition of supported metal complexes were found to be more active for CO hydrogenation than the corresponding catalysts incorporating only a single noble metal. (43) The selectivity of the reaction was also affected by the second metal. In catalysis by bimetallics containing Ni, the yield of C2−C3 hydrocarbons was found to be 30%, whereas the monometallic catalyst gave almost entirely methane. In catalysis by Pd and Pt, incorporation of the second metal caused the formation of hydrocarbons to be substantially reduced, and the yield of methanol was about 95−99% at 250 °C and 10 atm. The activities and selectivities of Ni, Pd, and Pt were all found to be strongly dependent on the nature of the second metal, increasing in the following order:  Ti < Zr < Hf. (43)
SiO2-supported Co−Ru clusters (and those supported in zeolites NaY and NaX) prepared from the precursors Ru3Co3C(CO)14, RuCo2(CO)11, and HRuCo3(CO)12 showed substantially higher activities and selectivities for formation of oxygenates such as C1−C5 alcohols (e.g., selectivities of up to 38% in CO hydrogenation at 149−250 °C) than samples incorporating only one metal, even in a highly dispersed form. (15) Similar effects were observed for SiO2-supported Fe−Rh, Fe−Pt, and Fe−Ir catalysts derived from metal carbonyl clusters. (14) The MgO-supported Re−Ir clusters formed by decarbonylation of [Et4N]2[Fe2Ir4(CO)16] and [Et4N]2[Fe2Ir2(CO)12] were also found to be active and selective catalysts for methanol formation from CO at 215−250 °C. (23)
The enhancement of catalytic properties of noble metals in CO hydrogenation, especially for formation of higher alcohols, was associated with the presence of heteroatomic M−M‘ bimetallic sites in the catalysts. (14,23) It was suggested14,23 that the close proximity of the metals to each other and their strong interactions not only minimize aggregation of the components but also provide the possibility for activation of CO on bimetallic sites, with C and O atoms simultaneously bonded to the different metals. The presence of C- and O-bonded CO on a catalyst surface appears to be favorable for the rate-determining CO insertion to form alcohols. (14)
C- and O-bonded CO species on monometallic catalysts were identified by infrared spectroscopy and attributed to CO adsorbed at the interface where atoms of the metal and cations of the support form a bimetallic adsorption site for bonding with CO. (43,53,54) Such infrared bands have been reported for CO adsorbed on noble metals supported on oxides of transition elements such as TiO2, ZrO2, HfO2, V2O5, and La2O3. (55−57) On the other hand, such bands were not observed for noble metals supported on oxides of p elements (Al, Zn, Cd, Ga, and Bi) or for bulk metals or supports without metals. (55−57)
Efforts have been made to validate the assignments of the low-frequency bands attributed to the C- and O-bonded CO. The bonding of C and O to Pt and Ti atoms, respectively, was investigated theoretically for a Pt3Ti alloy, (58) with the results showing that such adsorbed species are stable and that the νCO bands characterizing them are expected at wavenumbers <1800 cm-1. (59) When Mn, Ti, or Zr ions were incorporated in Rh/SiO2, the C- and O-bonded CO gave bands in the range of 1600−1800 cm-1. (43) Results characterizing organometallic cluster compounds justify the assignment of bands in the region of <1700 cm-1 to vibrations of the CO coordinated to metal atoms by both C and O atoms. (48,49) The existence of M−CO−M structures was confirmed for various heteronuclear clusters (M = Mo, Fe, and Ru), with characteristic νCO bands in the range of 1500−1700 cm-1. (60) [C5H5W(CO)3]- interacts with coordinatively unsaturated cations of MgO, γ-Al2O3, and K/γ-Al2O3 via C- and O-bonded CO ligands with characteristic νCO bands in the range of 1610−1750 cm-1. (61)
The νCO of the C- and O-bonded CO species is not sensitive to the nature of the noble or oxophilic metals, but the appearance of such bands in the spectra requires the close proximity of the two. (33)
Although the existence of C- and O-bonded CO is well documented by infrared spectroscopy, there are hardly any suggestions in the literature regarding how these species could be formed. It is usually assumed that the interaction between C- and O-bonded CO and metal surfaces involves simple donor−acceptor interactions, similar to interactions between CO molecules with single-crystal metal surfaces, on the one hand, and Lewis acid sites of oxide surfaces, on the other. These interactions are often assumed to take place over a wide range of temperatures or adsorbate pressures in a nonactivated fashion.
Infrared data demonstrate that terminal and bridging forms of CO on Pt are present even at very low CO pressures. (33) Isotopic exchange between 13CO and CO adsorbed on Pt is virtually instantaneous. (33) On the other hand, infrared spectra characterizing CO adsorbed on W−Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts prepared from molecular bimetallic clusters do not give evidence of C- and O-bonded CO at pressures of less than 10 Torr, although it is evident at higher CO pressures. (33) These results, together with the observation that the isotopic exchange of the C- and O-bonded species with 13CO is slow, suggest that adsorption of CO in such forms is actually an activated process. A similar suggestion was made for the C- and O-bonded adducts on Rh/Nb/SiO2 (62) on the basis of the observation that such species were detected in the infrared spectra only at temperatures exceeding −143 °C.
It was suggested that terminal or bridging CO species could be intermediates in the formation of the C- and O-bonded species. Some terminal and/or bridging CO species could be oriented toward the metal surface, with the carbonyl O atom being located closer to the metal atoms. (33) Such an activated state might be an intermediate, allowing the interaction of the carbonyl O atom, for example, with oxophilic W ions located in close proximity to Pt atoms. (33)
Therefore, we infer that, although the bands attributed to C- and O-bonded CO are often low in intensity and represent minor surface species, they could still be responsible, at least in part, for the properties of bimetallic catalysts for CO hydrogenation.
5.2. Crotonaldehyde Hydrogenation. The selective hydrogenation of C═O groups in compounds incorporating C═C groups (to give unsaturated alcohols) is an important practical goal because of the importance of unsaturated alcohols in the food, cosmetics, and pharmaceutical industries. However, hydrogenations giving such products selectively (e.g., crotyl alcohol from crotonaldehyde) are difficult. Thermodynamics favors the hydrogenation of the C═C bond, with a standard Gibbs free energy change of −16.9 kcal/mol, vs only −7.3 kcal/mol for hydrogenation of the C═O bond. (63) Selectivity in crotonaldehyde hydrogenation is influenced by the kinetics, which is influenced by the structures of adsorbed reactants on the catalyst.
The literature suggests that crotonaldehyde can be adsorbed on a metal in a di-σCC coordination (with only the C═C bond involved in chemisorption), in a di-σCO mode (with only the C═O bond involved), and in a η4 coordination (with both bonds involved). (64,65) The di-σCO adsorption mode apparently favors the formation of the unsaturated alcohol. Typically, the di-σCC and η4 coordinations of crotonaldehyde are the most favored on supported Pt, consistent with the formation of butyraldehyde as the principal catalytic hydrogenation product, independent of the Pt particle size. (63,66)
The W−Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts mentioned above showed higher activities for the formation of crotyl alcohol than similar samples lacking W. Among the bimetallic samples, those prepared from bimetallic cluster precursors were found to be the most active for crotyl alcohol formation. (32) It was suggested that the W ions closely associated with Pt atoms could participate in the chemisorption of crotonaldehyde, perhaps providing the opportunity for the formation of chemisorbed species such as those with C- and O-bonded adsorbates that would facilitate activation of the C═O bond as a consequence of a bifunctional interaction with both Pt and W. (53)
Thus, the role of the W appeared to be similar to the roles of other added metals modifying Pt for hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes. For example, Sn, (67,68) Fe, (69) and Ni (70,71) play such a role, and comparable catalytic properties of Pt/TiO2 arise as a result of high-temperature H2 treatment; modification of the catalytic properties of Ru/SiO2 by addition of potassium promoter was also reported. (66,72)
Consequently, it seems plausible that a bifunctional coordination of crotonaldehyde to both Pt and a second metal may facilitate activation of the C═O bond. Alternatively, however, there is evidence of structure sensitivity illustrated by the effect of Pt, Rh, and Ru particle sizes on hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (e.g., cinnamaldehyde and crotonaldehyde). (64,73,74) Thus, the effect of W on crotonaldehyde hydrogenation may be comparable to its effect on toluene hydrogenation (described below) and be largely a cluster size effect that reflects the extremely high Pt dispersions in the catalysts made from the bimetallic precursors.
5.3. Alkane Hydrogenolysis. The hydrogenolysis reactions of n-butane and of ethane were investigated as probes of NaY zeolite-supported Rh6-xIrx clusters of various compositions (x = 1−6) derived from Rh6-xIrx(CO)16. A decrease in the hydrogenolysis activity by 4 orders of magnitude was observed with an increasing number of Ir atoms in the active Rh ensembles. The data were interpreted not simply in terms of the removal of active Rh ensemble sites by incorporation of inactive Ir atoms (a geometric or ensemble size effect) but by drastic changes in the electronic states of the clusters across the metal composition range. (13)
In catalysis by Rh6-xIrx/NaY zeolite, the main product of n-butane hydrogenolysis was ethane (from cleavage of the central C−C bond). In contrast, RhFe/NaY zeolite catalysts derived from [Rh4Fe2(CO)16]2- showed higher selectivities for methane and propane, as the reaction proceeded mainly via the cleavage of terminal C−C bonds. (13) These data provide evidence that incorporation of a second metal can substantially modify the character of a catalytic site; the results would be bolstered by more evidence of the cluster sizes and identification of the catalytic sites.
The use of a second metal in the catalytic clusters also significantly affects the activity and selectivity for C−C bond scission reactions in n-hexane conversion. Highly dispersed CuPt/SiO2 catalysts prepared from Pt2Cu4(C⋮CtBu)8 were found to be several times more active than Pt/SiO2, with propane being a major product, in contrast to the methane observed with Pt/SiO2. (25)
A PtAu/SiO2 catalyst was prepared similarly from Pt2Au4(C⋮CtBu)8; the presence of Au in the sample was found not to affect the catalytic activity substantially for this reaction, but the selectivity pattern remained the same as that observed for CuPt/SiO2, favoring the internal rather than terminal bond scission. (25) The resistance to deactivation of PtAu/SiO2 in the n-hexane conversion was found to be substantially greater than that of CuPt/SiO2 and suggested to be related to the ability of Au to impart different particle morphologies or ensemble geometries that are resistant to deactivation (although experimental evidence to test the suggestion is lacking). It seems perhaps no less likely that the low resistance of CuPt/SiO2 to deactivation could be associated with the participation of Cu atoms in the cracking of C−C bonds as a part of bimetallic active sites.
The idea that both components of the bimetallic sites participate in the activation of hydrocarbons had been suggested earlier8 on the basis of observations that the addition of Re, Mo, W, Pb, or Sn to SiO2-supported Rh or Pt clusters decreased the yield of methane in favor of C2−C5 hydrocarbons, with the selectivity being strongly dependent on the nature of the metal.
It is noteworthy that the influence of the composition of ligands in the cluster precursor on n-hexane conversion catalysis could be comparable to the influence of the second metal. For example, it was found that SiO2-supported Pt−Au catalysts, prepared from the phosphorus-containing [Pt(AuPPh3)8](NO3)2 and [Pt(AuPPh3)2(PPh3)2](NO3)2, show high selectivities for dehydrogenation, whereas other reactions, such as cyclization, isomerization, and cracking, were severely inhibited. It was suggested that the residues of the phosphine ligands act as selective poisons for cracking, isomerization, and cyclization reactions. (75) On the other hand, one cannot rule out the possibility that the use of triphenylphosphine-ligated bimetallic precursors results in metal clusters with morphologies different from those of the non-phosphorus-containing catalysts. (75)
5.4. Toluene Hydrogenation. Highly dispersed bimetallic catalysts containing noble metals catalyze toluene hydrogenation, but they are relatively low in activity in comparison with the respective monometallic noble metal catalysts. For example, CuPt/SiO2 and PtAu/SiO2 catalysts derived from molecular metal cluster precursors were found to be about 6−30 times less active than Pt/SiO2. (26) The specific activities of MgO- and γ-Al2O3-supported W−Pt and Mo−Pt clusters prepared from Pt[M(CO)3(C5H5)]2(PhCN)2 (where M is W or Mo) were about 15 times less than that characterizing catalysts made by coprecipitation of individual Pt or Pt and W (or Mo) compounds, represented as Pt/γ-Al2O3, W+Pt/γ-Al2O3, or Mo+Pt/γ-Al2O3, respectively. (32,34,36) The W−Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalyst derived from W2Pt2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PPh3)2 showed negligible activity for toluene hydrogenation at 60 °C. (32)
The following generalizations follow from the data characterizing these bimetallic catalysts:  (a) regardless of the oxide support, relatively low rates of toluene hydrogenation were observed for bimetallic catalysts with high metal dispersions, (b) relatively high electron densities on the noble metals were indicated by the infrared spectra of probe molecules, and (c) low capacities for hydrogen and CO chemisorption were observed.
These effects were suggested to be evidence of the interactions between the metals in the bimetallic clusters. For example, the low concentration of hydrogen on the metal surface during catalysis (expected on the basis of the chemisorption data) could contribute to a low rate of the rate-determining step, believed to be the addition of the first hydrogen atom to the aromatic ring, (76,77) causing the catalytic reaction rate to be lower than that on the noble metal clusters free of bimetallic interactions. Furthermore, increased electron density on the metal resulting from bimetallic interactions would also be expected to slow the presumably fast step of toluene chemisorption on the metal. (76,77)
Besides the influence of the second metal, the influence of the metal dispersion on catalysis should not be overlooked. Although toluene hydrogenation is regarded as structure-insensitive (taking place with roughly the same turnover frequencies on the surfaces of metal particles of different sizes), data reported for highly dispersed MgO- and γ-Al2O3-supported Ir clusters indicate that the turnover frequency increased between 1 and 2 orders of magnitude as the average Ir cluster or aggregate size increased from about 5.4 Å to more than about 30 Å. (48−51,78) Qualitatively, the data fit the following pattern:  as the Ir clusters become larger, their activities increase, until an optimum diameter is reached. (78) Beyond this diameter (roughly 20−30 Å), the activity per exposed Ir atom remains constant, consistent with the identification of toluene hydrogenation catalyzed by noble metals as a structure-insensitive reaction. Numerous recent data support the pattern of cluster size effects in catalytic reactions including some regarded as structure insensitive. (79−82)
The causes of the deviation from the pattern of structure insensitivity for highly dispersed clusters remain to be determined. One might infer that the metal−support interactions dominate for the smallest clusters, with supports acting as ligands, (83) but not for the larger particles. The support would be expected to affect the electron transfer and/or the morphology of the clusters and particles, with the effects being greatest for the smallest clusters. Thus, it is inappropriate to regard the smallest clusters as comparable to bulk metals.
In summary, catalytic data for a variety of reactions used to test the behavior of supported bimetallics provide indirect but persuasive evidence of the importance of the interactions between the metals. The CO hydrogenation and hydrocarbon conversion reactions might be used as probes to assess the presence of bimetallic interactions in supported catalysts.
6. Physical Evidence of Interactions between Components in Highly Dispersed Bimetallic Clusters
It is essential to test the inference of the importance of bimetallic interactions in these catalysts by physical methods. We focus our attention here on the results of EXAFS spectroscopy, because EXAFS data provide direct information about metal−metal interactions as well as about the structures of supported metal clusters. The importance of EXAFS spectroscopy in the characterization of supported metal cluster catalysts was recognized early by Sinfelt and co-workers. (1)
Typically, an EXAFS investigation of supported bimetallic clusters should be based on data collected at two absorption edges, one for each metal in the catalyst. Analysis of the data provides information about the average number of nearest-neighbor atoms of each metal in the bimetallic clusters and interatomic distances.
To be reliable and internally consistent, a fit of the EXAFS data must give parameters meeting the following constraints, first stated by the Sinfelt group: (84) The parameters determined from each edge and characterizing the bimetallic (M−M‘) interactions must have (a) the same bond distances and (b) the same Debye−Waller factors; furthermore, (c) the coordination numbers characterizing the interactions between atoms of different metals (NMM‘ and NM‘M) and determined from data at each absorption edge must be related to each other by the equation NMM‘/NM‘M = nM‘/nM, where nM‘ and nM are the total numbers of M‘ and M atoms in the sample, respectively. (84)
6.1. Bimetallic Interactions in Supported Cluster Precursors. As a consequence of the large number of parameters that should satisfy the constraints mentioned above, the identification of bimetallic clusters by EXAFS spectroscopy is challenging and requires high-quality data at two absorption edges. There are only few such data available.
The presence of organic ligands surrounding the metal atoms is another complication in the analysis of EXAFS spectra. Only when the ligands have been relatively simple (as in metal carbonyls) have the identifications of supported bimetallic structures been carried out successfully by EXAFS spectroscopy. Most bimetallic cluster precursors18 adsorbed on supports have been identified only by infrared spectroscopy.
For example, species formed by adsorption of Me3SnCo(CO)4 on zeolite NaY were characterized by EXAFS spectroscopy. Analysis of the Co-edge data showed that about four CO ligands remained in the immediate neighborhood of Co, with the Co−C and Co−O* (O* is carbonyl oxygen) distances being 1.79 and 2.91 Å, respectively. (19) The Sn edge data showed that about 2.8 C atoms were in close proximity to each Sn atom at an average distance of 2.1 Å, consistent with the suggestion that all of the methyl groups remained in each cluster. The Sn−Co contributions were also detected (at 2.67 Å) at both edges, consistent with the conclusion that the structure of the bimetallic clusters was retained after adsorption. (19)
Similarly, EXAFS data indicate that Me3SnMn(CO)4 could be adsorbed intact on zeolite NaY. In contrast, interaction of the cluster with the acidic zeolite HY led to structural changes in the clusters. The clusters became attached to the zeolite framework at the oxygen rings of the supercages through the Sn moiety (by loss of one of the methyl groups), as the Sn−Mn bond and the carbonyl ligands remained intact. (85)
Larger clusters in zeolites and on amorphous supports have also been identified by EXAFS spectroscopy. For example, it was concluded that the reductive carbonylation of NaY zeolite-supported Co(CO)4- and Ru+ in an atmosphere of CO and H2 resulted in the formation of encaged species inferred to be HRuCo3(CO)9(μ3-CO)3. (86)
The surface species formed by adsorption of Pt2Ru4(CO)18 on γ-Al2O3 were also investigated by EXAFS spectroscopy. XRD data (87) reported for crystalline Pt2Ru4(CO)18 show that the cluster core consists of two Pt atoms bonded to each other at an average distance of 2.67 Å, with each being bonded to three Ru atoms at an average distance of 2.78 Å. The cluster core is stabilized by 18 terminal CO ligands, two bonded to Pt atoms, with average Pt−C and Pt−O* distances of 1.83 and 2.97 Å, respectively; the remainder of the CO ligands are bonded to Ru atoms, with average Ru−C and Ru−O* distances of 1.93 and 3.07 Å, respectively (Figure 5).
Figure 5
Figure 5. Structure of the crystalline [Pt2Ru4(CO)18] cluster determined by XRD. (87)
The Pt L3 edge EXAFS data (Table 1) characterizing the surface species formed by contact of Pt2Ru4(CO)18 with γ-Al2O3 indicate that each Pt atom was in close proximity to at least one Pt atom and three Ru atoms, at average distances of 2.66 and 2.77 Å, respectively. Pt−C and Pt−O* contributions indicating the presence of the terminal carbonyl ligands in the immediate neighborhood of Pt atoms were also observed, with average coordination numbers of 1.4 and 1.5 at average distances of 1.83 and 2.92 Å, respectively. (29)
Table 1. Summary of EXAFS Data Characterizing γ-Al2O3-Supported Pt2Ru4(CO)18a Clusters
edge shell N R (Å) 103Δσ2 (Å2) ΔE0 (eV) ref
Pt L3 Pt−Pt 1.0 ± 0.1 2.66 ± 0.01 0.3 ± 0.2 3.0 ± 0.7 29
  Pt−Ru 3.0 ± 0.1 2.77 ± 0.01 8.8 ± 0.2 −9.0 ± 0.1  
  Pt−CO          
  Pt−C 1.4 ± 0.1 1.83 ± 0.01 4.6 ± 0.6 −5.4 ± 0.3  
  Pt−O* 1.5 ± 0.1 2.92 ± 0.01 −1.4 ± 0.1 3.9 ± 0.1  
  Pt−Osupport          
  Pt−Os 1.2 ± 0.1 2.26 ± 0.01 10.0 ± 0.8 −18.2 ± 0.5  
  Pt−Ol 3.4 ± 0.1 3.20 ± 0.01 5.3 ± 0.5 −8.1 ± 0.2  
Ru K Ru−Ru 1.0 ± 0.1 2.83 ± 0.01 2.1 ± 0.2 9.8 ± 0.7 29
  Ru−Pt 1.6 ± 0.1 2.77 ± 0.01 8.8 ± 0.8 2.2 ± 1.1  
  Ru−CO          
  Ru−C 3.8 ± 0.1 1.94 ± 0.01 2.4 ± 0.1 1.0 ± 0.2  
  Ru−O* 3.9 ± 0.1 3.05 ± 0.01 0.1 ± 0.0 −2.0 ± 0.2  
  Ru−Osupport          
  Ru−Os 3.0 ± 0.1 2.13 ± 0.01 10.0 ± 0.4 1.2 ± 0.5  
  Ru−Ol 1.5 ± 0.1 3.24 ± 0.01 −3.6 ± 0.2 3.3 ± 0.4  
a Notation:  N, coordination number; R, distance between absorber and backscatterer atoms; Δσ2, Debye−Waller factor; ΔE0, inner potential correction; the subscripts s and l refer to short and long, respectively.
The EXAFS data collected at the Ru K edge complement those acquired at the Pt L3 edge, showing that each Ru atom on average was surrounded by one Ru atom and about 1.6 Pt atoms at average distances of 2.83 and 2.77 Å, respectively. About four CO groups with characteristic Ru−C and Ru−O* distances of 1.94 and 3.05 Å, respectively, were also observed in the immediate neighborhood of Ru (Table 1). (29)
Thus, the EXAFS results at both the Pt L3 and Ru K edges characterizing the γ-Al2O3-supported surface species formed from Pt2Ru4(CO)18 match, within the expected experimental uncertainty, the XRD data representing solid Pt2Ru4(CO)18. (87) The fact that all of the coordination numbers and bond distances characterizing the Pt−Pt, Pt−Ru, and Ru−Ru interactions in the γ-Al2O3-supported Pt2Ru4(CO)18 were found to be almost the same as those characterizing crystalline Pt2Ru4(CO)18 (Table 2) implies only weak cluster−support interactions. The EXAFS results indicating that only the Pt−O* and Ru−O* distances determined for these supported clusters are (slightly) different from those in crystalline Pt2Ru4(CO)18 imply a slight distortion of the ligand environment of Pt2Ru4(CO)18 upon interaction with the support.
Table 2. Comparison of XRD and EXAFS Data Characterizing Crystalline and γ-Al2O3-Supported [Pt2Ru4(CO)18]a
  XRD data characterizing crystalline [Pt2Ru4(CO)18] EXAFS data characterizing [Pt2Ru4(CO)18]/γ-Al2O3
shell R (Å) N R (Å) N ref
Pt−Pt 2.67 1.0 2.66 1.0  
Pt−Ru 2.78 3.0 2.77 3.0  
Pt−CO         29, 87
Pt−C 1.83 1.0 1.83 1.4  
Pt−O* 2.97 1.0 2.92 1.5  
Ru−Ru 2.85 1.0 2.83 1.0  
Ru−Pt 2.78 1.5 2.77 1.6 29, 87
Ru−CO          
Ru−C 1.93 4.0 1.94 3.8  
Ru−O* 3.07 4.0 3.05 3.9  
a Notation:  XRD, X-ray diffraction; R, interatomic distance; N, first-shell coordination number.
In summary, the cited EXAFS data show that some bimetallic clusters are adsorbed intact on supports, with the bimetallic interactions largely maintained in the surface species. In contrast, however, EXAFS data show that some cluster cores are broken up upon adsorption of molecular metal clusters, for example, those of Fe−Ru clusters of various composition on Al2O3. (20) One would infer that the structure of the surface species depends not only on the nature of the cluster precursor but also on the chemistry of the support, including the degree of its hydroxylation, and the strength of cluster−support interactions.
6.2. Structural Changes of Bimetallic Clusters during Decarbonylation. Only rarely have changes of cluster frames been directly observed by EXAFS spectroscopy as ligands were removed from bimetallic clusters. For example, decarbonylation in H2 of PtRu5C(CO)16 and of Pt2Ru4(CO)18, each supported on carbon, gave Ru−Pt aggregates characterized by shorter Pt−Pt and Ru−Ru distances than those determined for the respective crystalline precursors. (28,88,89) Because the decarbonylation of these metal carbonyl clusters was accompanied by the formation of layers of segregated nanoparticles incorporating about 40 Pt and Ru atoms and having average diameters of about 15 Å, the structural changes were associated with the aggregation and formation of alloylike structures, with the metal atoms being packed closer to each other than in the metal carbonyl precursors. (28,88,89)
On the other hand, recent reports indicate that even when γ-Al2O3-supported Ru−Pt samples remained highly dispersed, the Pt−Pt and Ru−Ru contributions characterizing the decarbonylated clusters were substantially different from those of the fully carbonylated species. Specifically, after treatment of γ-Al2O3-supported Pt2Ru4(CO)18 in He or H2 at 300−400 °C, the Pt−Pt bond distance increased by 0.03 Å and the Ru−Ru bond distance decreased by 0.19 Å relative to the values characterizing the fully carbonylated cluster precursor in the crystalline form or supported on γ-Al2O3 (Table 2). (29)
Therefore, we doubt that the observed changes in the metal−metal bonds could be fully accounted for by just the aggregation that resulted from decarbonylation. EXAFS data reported for osmium subcarbonyls on γ-Al2O3 show that the loss of one CO ligand during decarbonylation was accompanied by an increase in the Os−Osupport coordination number from nearly 3 to nearly 4, consistent with the suggestion that the lost CO ligand was replaced by an oxygen atom of the support. (90) We suggest that this conclusion can be extended to supported metal carbonyl clusters, so that the loss of a CO ligand could be compensated by increased metal−support interactions, with the support becoming part of the ligand shell of the (partially) decarbonylated species. Theoretical calculations (91) showing that the energy of the metal−Osupport bond is greater than that of the metal−CO bond for rhenium subcarbonyls supported on MgO and that the metal−support (metal−oxygen) interface bonds are strong (92,93) reinforce the view of the support as a ligand, which typically is polydentate. The theoretical simulations reported for SiO2-supported [Ru12Cu4C2(CO)32Cl2]2- show that the strong cluster−support interaction results in a structural modification of the cluster core upon removal of carbonyl ligands. (38) Theoretical predictions made for Os5C clusters on MgO (94) and Ir4 clusters on faujasite92 indicate that the removal of the CO ligands leads to contraction of the metal−metal bonds.
The experimental structure parameters determined from the EXAFS data characterizing monometallic metal carbonyl clusters show, for example, that the Ir−Ir bond distance (2.68 Å) characterizing Ir4(CO)12, within the experimental uncertainty, remained the same after adsorption of the cluster on γ-Al2O3 and after subsequent decarbonylation. (95) On the other hand, the Rh−Rh bond distance was observed to shrink from 2.76 to 2.68 Å upon decarbonylation of NaY zeolite-supported Rh6(CO)16. (95) The greatest comparable decrease in the metal−metal bond distance was observed upon decarbonylation of Ru3(CO)12 on various supports (MgO, SiO2, TiO2, and γ-Al2O3), whereby the Ru−Ru bond distance changed from approximately 2.88 to 2.64 Å. (95) Although the computational results give a clear indication that the nature of the ligands as well as the strength of interaction between the metal core and the ligands can strongly affect the cluster morphology, we infer that the identities of the metals in the cluster core also need to be taken into consideration.
6.3. Evidence of Interactions between Components in Supported Bimetallic Clusters after the Removal of Ligands. The removal of organic ligands from supported bimetallics is not only an important step in the transformation of adsorbed species into catalytically active metal clusters, but it also makes the analysis of EXAFS data simpler, because there are fewer backscatterers in the immediate neighborhood of the metals. However, the deligated structures of supported bimetallic species are still relatively complicated and known only approximately. In many cases thermal treatment of supported bimetallics has caused the segregation of the two metals and aggregation leading to the formation of relatively large metal particles. However, in some samples the bimetallic interactions were preserved, with the metals remaining highly dispersed. Such samples are the best candidates for EXAFS investigations, because the more highly dispersed and uniform the samples are, the more precisely their structures can be determined and the more easily the bimetallic interactions separated from other metal−metal interactions.
It appears that the best results available for the determination of such bimetallic structures have been obtained with samples made from molecular bimetallic clusters as precursors. For example, the decarbonylation of γ-Al2O3-supported Re2Pt(CO)12 in H2 at 400 °C resulted in the formation of supported clusters approximated as Re4Pt2, which appear to be nearly molecular in character and resemble the metal cluster precursor (Figure 4). The Re−Pt contributions observed at 2.74 Å at both the Re L3 and Pt L3 edges were stable enough to survive the decarbonylation process. Moreover, in these highly dispersed Re4Pt2 species, it was found that the Re atoms interact more strongly with the support than the Pt atoms, as evidenced by Re−O contributions, with an average coordination number of 2.4 at an average distance of 2.14 Å. It was inferred that interactions of Re with the support, on the one hand, and with the Pt atoms, on the other hand, helped to keep the Re−Pt bonds intact and to hinder the aggregation of the metals on the support. (6)
In more typical cases, the molecular structure of the cluster precursor is not retained following ligand removal; the resulting supported species are typically complex and nonuniform in structure and difficult to characterize. However, the EXAFS characterization of such samples has led to the recognition of patterns similar to those observed for the well-defined γ-Al2O3-supported Re−Pt clusters. For example, a detailed EXAFS investigation of the γ-Al2O3-supported W−Pt catalysts derived from Pt[W(CO)3(C5H5)]2(PhCN)2 and Pt2W2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PPh3)2 showed that W in either of the bimetallic precursors helped to maintain the Pt in a highly dispersed form during treatment in H2 at 400 °C, leading to highly dispersed supported Pt clusters of only about 4−6 atoms each, on average. The data also indicated substantial W−Pt interactions at a distance of 2.71 Å. These were detected at both the Pt and W edges, consistent with the suggestion that the W−Pt−W [or Pt−(W)2−Pt] units in the precursor were largely retained following removal of the ligands by H2 treatment. The W−Pt interactions were found to be strong enough to survive oxidation/reduction treatments at temperatures as high as 400 °C. (32,33)
The EXAFS data reported for highly dispersed Ru−Pt clusters supported on γ-Al2O3 show that, regardless of the temperature or environment used to decarbonylate the supported Pt2Ru4(CO)18, the Ru− Pt contributions remained, being detected at both the Pt L3 and Ru K edges in the decarbonylated samples. Nonetheless, the cluster frame of γ-Al2O3-supported Pt2Ru4(CO)18 was found to undergo modifications upon decarbonylation. Evidently, the Ru−Pt interactions in the original cluster frame were strong enough to largely survive these changes. (29)
Larger bimetallic species have also been formed, for example, by thermal decomposition of Pd2Mo2(C5H5)2(CO)6(PPh3)2, PtW2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PhCN)2, PtMo2(CO)6(C5H5)2(PhCN)2, or [PtMo6O24]8- on MgO, (34,36,37,96) PtRu5C(CO)16 on carbon, (88,89) and [HRu3Co(CO)12] in zeolite NaY, as evidenced by EXAFS spectroscopy. (86) Although the structures of these supported bimetallics were not determined precisely, the EXAFS data reveal the existence of bimetallic interactions (Table 3).
Table 3. EXAFS Parameters Characterizing Surface Species Formed by Decomposition of Supported Bimetallic Aggregatesa
support/treatment precursor treatment conditions of the catalyst edge shell N R (Å) model of surface species ref
MCM-41 mesoporous [Ru12C2Cu4Cl2(CO)32] vacuum Ru K Ru−Ru 3.9 2.66 suggested to be bimetallic 97
silicate/vacuum [PPN]2 at 180 °C   Ru−Cu 1.1 2.59 clusters of about  
at 200 °C       Ru−O     14 Å in diameter  
      Cu K Cu−Cu 2.7 2.54 with an average  
        Cu−Ru 2.3 2.59 structure similar to  
        Cu−O 1.4 1.97 that of the precursor  
zeolite NaY/uncalcined [HRu3Co(CO)12] H2 at 300 °C Ru K Co K Ru−Co Co−Ru Co−Co 1.1 0.9 0.5 2.63 2.62 2.53 no data characterizing the metal−support interface available; suggested to be bimetallic clusters maintaining the structure of the metal carbonyl precursor 86
MgO/uncalcined [PtMo6O24]8- none Pt L3 Pt−Mo 4.0 3.29 bimetallic cluster frame 96
        Pt−O 6.0 1.99 remaining intact only  
      Mo K Mo−Pt 1.0 3.30 after interaction with  
        Mo−Mo 2.0 3.34 the support; treatment  
        Mo−O 4.5 1.75 with H2 resulting  
              in disintegration of
              the cluster frame
γ-Al2O3/uncalcined [Re7Ir(CCO)23] H2 at Re L3 Re−Ir 1.8 2.71 two-dimensional layer 98
  [N(PPh3)2]2 500 °C   Re−O 0.7 2.08 structures suggested  
        Re−O 0.6 2.56    
      Ir L3 Ir−Re 4.8 2.71    
        Ir−O 1.8 2.07    
        Ir−O 1.1 2.60    
carbon black [PtRu5C(CO)16] H2 at Pt L3 Pt−Pt 2.5 2.69 suggested to be bimetallic 88, 89
    400 °C   Pt−Ru 4.0 2.70 nanoparticles with  
      Ru K Ru−Pt 0.7 2.70 an average diameter  
        Ru−Ru 5.4 2.67 of 15 Å  
γ-Al2O3/calcined [Re2Pt(CO)12] H2 at Re L3 Re−Re 2.6 2.61 suggested to be Re4Pt2 6
at 500 °C   400 °C   Re−Pt 0.8 2.74 with oxophilic Re  
        Re−O 2.4 2.14 interacting strongly  
      Pt L3 Pt−Re 2.5 2.74 with oxygen atoms  
        Pt−O 1.5 2.69 of γ-Al2O3  
zeolite NaY/calcined [Me3SnCo(CO)4] vacuum Co K Co−Co 2.8 2.46 suggested to be small 19
at 400 °C   at 300 °C   Co−Cob 1.3 3.45 bimetallic alloy-like  
        Co−Sn 1.8 2.72 clusters containing  
      Sn K Sn−Sn 0.7 2.95 about 10 atoms each;  
        Sn−Snb 2.2 3.71 no data characterizing  
        Sn−Co 2.8 2.68 interaction with the  
              support available;
              no match in Sn−Co
              and Co−Sn
              contributions
zeolite NaY/calcined [Me3SnMn(CO)5] vacuum Mn K Mn−O 2.7 1.95 bimetallic cluster frame 85
at 500 °C   at 150 °C   Mn−Sn 1.3 2.59 remaining intact only  
      Sn K Sn−Mn 1.3 2.60 at temperatures  
        Sn−Cc 2.7 2.10 of <150 °C  
MgO/calcined [Pd2Mo2(C5H5)2 H2 at Pd K Pd−Pd 4.5 2.85 bilayer model of highly 37
at 550 °C (CO)6(PPh3)2] 400 °C   Pd−Mo 3.0 2.66 dispersed bimetallic  
        Pd−O 0.9 2.17 clusters suggested  
        Pd−O 0.5 2.55 with Mo ions  
      Mo K Mo−Mo 3.8 2.59 preferentially located  
        Mo−Pd 2.2 2.66 at the interface  
        Mo−O 1.6 2.16 between Pd atoms  
        Mo−O 2.0 2.55 and the support  
MgO/calcined [PtMo2(CO)6(C5H5)2 H2 at Pt L3 Pt−Pt 5.7 2.73 suggested to be highly 36
at 400 °C (PhCN)2] 400 °C   Pt−Mo 1.8 2.63 dispersed bimetallic  
        Pt−O 1.1 2.35 clusters with an  
        Pt−O 1.5 2.51 average diameter  
      Mo K Mo−Mo 2.1 2.60 of <10 Å  
        Mo−Pt 3.2 2.65    
        Mo−O 1.4 2.23    
        Mo−O 0.8 2.58    
Table 3. Cont'd
support/treatment precursor treatment conditions of the catalyst edge shell N R (Å) model of surface species ref
γ-Al2O3/calcined [Pt2W2(CO)6(C5H5)2 H2 at Pt L2 Pt−Pt 3.5 2.74 suggested to be bimetallic 32
at 400 °C (PPh3)2] 400 °C   Pt−W 0.9 2.71 clusters containing  
        Pt−O 3.0 2.15 about four Pt atoms  
        Pt−O 2.0 2.64 each; Pt−W  
      W L3 W−Pt 0.9 2.71 interaction largely  
        W−O 0.8 1.71 maintained under  
        W−O 0.9 2.12 oxidizing conditions  
        W−O 0.4 2.58 and temperatures of  
              up to 673 K
γ-Al2O3/calcined [PtW2(CO)6(C5H5)2 H2 at Pt L2 Pt−Pt 3.0 2.74 suggested to be bimetallic 32
at 400 °C (PhCN)2] 400 °C   Pt−W 2.0 2.71 clusters containing  
        Pt−O 1.8 2.15 about four Pt atoms  
        Pt−O 2.0 2.64 each; Pt−W  
      W L3 W−Pt 0.9 2.71 interaction largely  
        W−O 1.3 1.71 maintained under  
        W−O 0.5 2.26 oxidizing conditions  
        W−O 0.1 3.09 and temperatures of  
              up to 673 K
MgO/calcined [PtW2(CO)6(C5H5)2 H2 at Pt L2 Pt−Pt 3.0 2.72 suggested to be bimetallic 34
at 400 °C (PhCN)2] 400 °C   Pt−W 2.1 2.71 clusters containing  
        Pt−O 1.9 2.17 about four Pt atoms  
        Pt−O 3.8 2.71 each; Pt−W  
      W L3 W−W 2.3 3.02 interaction largely  
        W−Pt 1.1 2.71 maintained under  
        W−O 0.8 1.93 oxidizing conditions  
        W−O 2.3 2.70 and temperatures of  
              up to 673 K
γ-Al2O3/calcined [Pt2Ru4(CO)18] He at Pt L3 Pt−Pt 1.9 2.69 suggested to be bimetallic 29
at 400 °C   300 °C   Pt−Ru 2.8 2.68 clusters containing  
        Pt−O 1.3 2.15 about three Pt atoms  
        Pt−O 0.6 2.58 and six Ru  
      Ru K Ru−Ru 3.2 2.64 atoms each  
        Ru−Pt 1.5 2.68    
        Ru−O 0.8 2.19    
γ-Al2O3/calcined [Pt2Ru4(CO)18] H2 at Pt L3 Pt−Pt 2.0 2.69 suggested to be bimetallic 29
at 400 °C   300 °C   Pt−Ru 3.0 2.68 clusters containing  
        Pt−O 1.4 2.16 about three Pt atoms  
        Pt−O 0.7 2.59 and six Ru  
      Ru K Ru−Ru 4.0 2.64 atoms each  
        Ru−Pt 1.5 2.68    
        Ru−O 0.3 2.09    
a Notation:  N, coordination number for the shell; R, average shell radial distance.b Second shell.c Contribution characterizing the interaction of metal with carbon of the methyl ligand.
Table 4. Summary of Structural Parameters Characterizing Bimetallic Aggregates
bimetallic cluster contributions determined by EXAFS spectroscopy R (Å) calculated R (Å)a ref
Ir−Cu Ir−Ir 2.69    
  Cu−Cu 2.60    
  Ir−Cu 2.65 2.65 84
Pt−Cu Pt−Pt 2.71    
  Cu−Cu 2.63    
  Pt−Cu 2.66 2.67 84
Rh−Cu Rh−Rh 2.67    
  Cu−Cu 2.65    
  Rh−Cu 2.65 2.66 84
Ir−Rh Rh−Rh 2.72    
  Ir−Ir 2.72    
  Rh−Ir 2.71 2.72 84
Pt−Ru Pt−Pt 2.69    
  Ru−Ru 2.64    
  Pt−Ru 2.68 2.67 29
a Notation:  R, average shell radial distance calculated as a sum of the radii of individual metal−metal contributions.
When supported bimetallic clusters incorporate metals that show characteristic metal−metal contributions in the EXAFS data, the M−M‘ distance characterizing bimetallic interactions correlates with distances characterizing individual M−M and M‘−M‘ contributions. For example, the Ru−Pt bond distance of 2.68 Å observed for the γ-Al2O3-supported and decarbonylated samples derived from Pt2Ru4(CO)18 agrees well with the value of 2.67 Å calculated as a sum of the radii of Pt and Ru in Pt−Pt and Ru−Ru contributions. (29) The earlier EXAFS data reported by Sinfelt et al. (84) for Rh−Ir, Cu−Rh, Cu−Pt, and Cu−Ir combinations also agree with this pattern (Table 4). The results suggest the following generalization:  the distance between the two metals is with some generality approximately equal to half of the sum of the distances between the atoms of each individual metal. This generalization could be regarded as an additional approximate constraint to be applied with the other constraints introduced by Sinfelt's group84 to analyze EXAFS data characterizing supported clusters incorporating two metals.
7. Prospects for Application of Bimetallic Catalysts Prepared from Organometallic Precursors
The new classes of catalysts described here are intriguing for the prospects they offer. The uniqueness of bimetallic catalysts prepared from organometallic precursors is attributed in large measure to the bimetallic interactions and the smallness of the supported clusters. Because the investigation of such catalysts is still at an early stage and because there are so many conceivable combinations of metals, supports, and structures of supported bimetallics, it seems fair to infer that many new structures with new catalytic properties remain to be discovered.
However, the preparation of catalysts from organometallic precursors, some of which are themselves difficult to synthesize, is expensive and unappealing for large-scale applications. Applications in the near term seem unlikely, except possibly for processes in which the catalyst cost is not a large fraction of processing and development costs, such as, for example, in pharmaceutical manufacture, especially when a high selectivity can be obtained with a well-formulated catalyst.
Furthermore, most catalysts consisting of small bimetallic clusters on supports have structures that are likely to be difficult to regenerate after they become deactivated. Those with the best prospects for application might be the ones that are unique in structure and also stable enough to withstand repeated treatments in oxygen and hydrogen, which would lead to regeneration by removal of coke. Such catalysts include the oxophilic metal−noble metal combinations in which the oxophilic metal anchors the noble metal to the oxide support and stabilizes it in a high dispersion.
Author Information
Corresponding Author
B. C. Gates - Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of California, Davis, California 95616 ;  Email:
Author
O. S. Alexeev - Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of California, Davis, California 95616
Acknowledgments
We thank Ford Motor Co. for financial support. We are grateful for access to beam time at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, a national user facility operated by Stanford University on behalf of the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, and at the beamline X-11A at the National Synchrotron Light Source that is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Division of Materials Sciences, under Contract No. DE-FG05-89ER45384.
References
This article references 98 other publications.
1Sinfelt, J. H. Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts, and Applications; Wiley:  New York, 1983.
Google Scholar
2Sinfelt, J. H From the 1950s to the 1990sMy Years as a Scientist in an Industrial Laboratory. Catal. Today 1999, 53, 305,  DOI: 10.1016/S0920-5861(99)00124-8
Google Scholar
3Sinfelt, J. H Catalytic Hydrogenolysis on Metals. Catal. Lett. 1991, 9, 159,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00773174
Google Scholar
4Ponec, V.; Bond, G. C. Catalysis by Metals and Alloys; Elsevier:  Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1995.
Google Scholar
5Antos, G. J., Aitani, A. M., Parera, J. M., Eds. Catalytic Naphtha Reforming:  Science and Technology; Dekker:  New York, 1995.
Google Scholar
6Fung, A. S.; Kelley, M. J.; Koningsberger, D. C.; Gates, B. C. γ-Al2O3-Supported Re−Pt Cluster Catalysts Prepared from [Re2Pt(CO)12]:  Characterization by Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy and Catalysis of Methylcyclohexane Dehydrogenation. J. Am. Chem. Soc.1997, 119, 5877. DOI: 10.1021/ja962816z
Google Scholar
7Schüth, F.; Unger, K. In Preparation of Solid Catalysts; Ertl, G., Knözinger, H., Weitkamp, J., Eds.; Wiley-VCH:  Weinheim, Germany, 1999; p 60.
Google Scholar
8Yermakov, Y. I.; Kuznetsov, B. N.; Zakharov, V. A. Catalysis by Supported Complexes; Elsevier:  Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1981.
Google Scholar
9Lefebvre, F.; Candy, J. P.; Basset, J.-M. In Metal Clusters in Chemistry; Braunstein, P., Oro, L. A., Raithby, P. R., Eds.; Wiley-VCH:  Weinheim, Germany, 1999; p 782.
Google Scholar
10Margitfalvi, J. L.; Borbáth, I.; Hegedüs, M.; Göbölös, S.; Lónyi, F New Approaches to Prepare Supported Sn-Pt Bimetallic Catalysts. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1999, 68, 133,  DOI: 10.1007/BF02475495
Google Scholar
11Gates, B. C Supported Metal Cluster Catalysts. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 163, 55,  DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(00)00399-X
Google Scholar
12Ichikawa, M. In Metal Clusters in Chemistry; Braunstein, P., Oro, L. A., Raithby, P. R., Eds.; Wiley-VCH:  Weinheim, Germany, 1999; p 1273.
Google Scholar
13Ichikawa, M.; Rao, L.; Ito, T.; Fukuoka, A Ensemble and Ligand Effects in Selective Alkane Hydrogenolysis Catalysed on Well Characterized RhIr and RhFe Bimetallic Clusters inside NaY Zeolite. Faraday Discuss. Chem. Soc. 1989, 87, 321,  DOI: 10.1039/dc9898700321
Google Scholar
14Ichikawa, M.; Rao, L.-F.; Kimura, T.; Fukuoka, A Heterogenized Bimetallic Clusters: Their Structures and Bifunctional Catalysis. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 62, 15,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(90)85236-B
Google Scholar
15Shen, G.-C.; Liu, A.-M.; Shido, T.; Ichikawa, M CO Hydrogenation Towards Higher Alcohols Catalyzed on SiO2-grafted and Zeolite-entrapped Ru, Co and RuCo Bimetallic Clusters: Their EXAFS and FTIR Characterization and Catalytic Performances. Top. Catal. 1995, 2, 141,  DOI: 10.1007/BF01491962
Google Scholar
16Ahn, D. H.; Lee, J. S.; Nomura, M.; Sachtler, W. M. H.; Moretti, G.; Woo, S. I.; Ryoo, R Characterization of Zeolite-Supported Pt-Cu Bimetallic Catalyst by 129Xe NMR and EXAFS. J. Catal. 1992, 133, 191,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(92)90197-P
Google Scholar
17Dossi, C.; Schaefer, J.; Sachtler, W. M. H Mechanism of Particle Formation in Decomposing Re2(CO)10 on NaY and NaHY ZeolitesEffect of Prereduced Pt Clusters in the Supercages. J. Mol. Catal. 1989, 52, 193,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(89)80089-6
Google Scholar
18Braunstein, P.; Rosé, J. In Metal Clusters in Chemistry; Braunstein, P., Oro, L. A., Raithby, P. R., Eds.; Wiley-VCH:  Weinheim, Germany, 1999; p 616.
Google Scholar
19Huber, C.; Moller, K.; Bein, T Encapsulation of Tetracarbonyl(trimethylstannyl)cobalt in NaY Zeolite: Reactivity and Alloy Cluster Formation. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 12067,  DOI: 10.1021/j100097a036
Google Scholar
20Guczi, L.; Beck, A Elementary Steps in the Formation of Bimetallic Catalysts Derived from Carbonyl Clusters. Polyhedron 1988, 7, 2387,  DOI: 10.1016/S0277-5387(00)86357-3
Google Scholar
21Bergmeister, J. J.; Hanson, B. E Adsorption of Ruthenium-Cobalt Bimetallic Clusters on Hydroxylated Alumina. Organometallics 1989, 8, 283,  DOI: 10.1021/om00104a003
Google Scholar
22Bender, R.; Braunstein, P Transformation of the Cluster Pt3(μ-CO)3(PPh3)4 into Pt5(μ-CO)5(CO)(PPh3)4 upon Impregnation onto Inorganic Supports. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1983, 334,  DOI: 10.1039/c39830000334
Google Scholar
23Ugo, R.; Dossi, C.; Psaro, R Molecular Metal Carbonyl Clusters and Volatile Organometallic Compounds for Tailored Mono and Bimetallic Heterogeneous Catalysts. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1996, 107, 13,  DOI: 10.1016/1381-1169(95)00162-X
Google Scholar
24Chandler, B. D.; Schnabel, A. B.; Pignolet, L. H Preparation and Characterization of Supported Bimetallic Pt-Au Particle Catalysts from Molecular Cluster and Chloride Salt Precursors. J. Catal. 2000, 187, 367,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1999.2641
Google Scholar
25Chandler, B. D.; Schnabel, A. B.; Pignolet, L. H Preparation and Characterization of Supported Bimetallic Pt-Au and Pt-Cu Catalysts from Bimetallic Molecular Precursors. J. Catal. 2000, 193, 186,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.2000.2905
Google Scholar
26Chandler, B. D.; Schnabel, A. B.; Pignolet, L. H Ensemble Size Effects on Toluene Hydrogenation and Hydrogen Chemisorption by Supported Bimetallic Particle Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 149,  DOI: 10.1021/jp002222p
Google Scholar
27Raja, R.; Sankar, G.; Hermans, S.; Shephard, D. S.; Bromley, S.; Thomas, J. M.; Johnson, B. F. G Preparation and Characterisation of a Highly Active Bimetallic (Pd-Ru) Nanoparticle Heterogeneous Catalyst. Chem. Commun. 1999, 1571,  DOI: 10.1039/a901263j
Google Scholar
28Hills, C. W.; Nasher, M. S.; Frenkel, A. I.; Shapley, J. R.; Nuzzo, R. G Carbon Support Effects on Bimetallic Pt-Ru Nanoparticles Formed from Molecular Precursors. Langmuir 1999, 15, 690,  DOI: 10.1021/la980921b
Google Scholar
29Alexeev, O.; Shelef, M.; Graham, G. W.; Adams, R. D.; Gates, B. C. γ-Al2O3-Supported PtRu Clusters Prepared from [Pt2Ru4(CO)18]:  Characterization by Infrared and Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopies. J. Phys. Chem. B2002, 106, 4697. DOI: 10.1021/jp014342i
Google Scholar
30Djéga-Mariadassou, G.; Fajardie, F.; Tempere, J.-F.; Manoli, J.-M.; Touret, O.; Blanchard, G A General Model for Both Three-way and deNOx Catalysis: Dissociative or Associative Nitric 1586 Oxide Adsorption, and its Assisted Decomposition in the Presence of a Reductant. Part I. Nitric Oxide Decomposition Assisted by CO Over Reduced or Oxidized Rhodium Species Supported on Ceria. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 161, 179,  DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(00)00334-4
Google Scholar
31Long, J. W.; Stroud, R. M.; Swider-Lyons, K. E.; Rolison, D. R How to Make Electrocatalysts More Active for Direct Methanol OxidationAvoid PtRu Bimetallic Alloys. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 9772,  DOI: 10.1021/jp001954e
Google Scholar
32Alexeev, O. S.; Graham, G. W.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C. γ-Al2O3-Supported Pt Catalysts with Extremely high Dispersions Resulting from Pt−W Interactions. J. Catal.2000, 190, 157. DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1999.2739
Google Scholar
33Alexeev, O. S.; Graham, G. W.; Kim, D.-W.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C. γ-Al2O3-supported Pt−W Catalysts Prepared from Molecular Organometallic Precursors:  Characterization by IR Spectroscopy. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.1999, 1, 5725. DOI: 10.1039/a907022b
Google Scholar
34Alexeev, O.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C MgO-supported Platinum-Tungsten Catalysts Prepared from Organometallic Precursors: Platinum Clusters Isolated on Dispersed Tungsten. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 1,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0357
Google Scholar
35Hoost, T. E.; Graham, G. W.; Shelef, M.; Alexeev, O.; Gates, B. C Highly Dispersed MgO-supported Model Pd-Mo Catalysts Prepared from Bimetallic Clusters: Chemisorption and Selective Catalytic Reduction of NO. Catal. Lett. 1996, 38, 57,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00806900
Google Scholar
36Alexeev, O.; Kawi, S.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C Synthesis and Characterization of Model MgO-Supported Catalysts with Pt-Mo Interactions. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 253,  DOI: 10.1021/jp951432c
Google Scholar
37Kawi, S.; Alexeev, O.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C Highly Dispersed MgO-Supported Model Pd-Mo Catalysts Prepared from Bimetallic Clusters. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 6926,  DOI: 10.1021/j100018a026
Google Scholar
38Bromley, S. T.; Sankar, G.; Catlow, C. R. A.; Maschmeyer, T.; Johnson, B. F. G.; Thomas, J. M New Insights into the Structure of Supported Bimetallic Nanocluster Catalysts Prepared from Carbonylated Precursors: a Combined Density Functional Theory and EXAFS Study. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2001, 340, 524,  DOI: 10.1016/S0009-2614(01)00424-9
Google Scholar
39Bromley, S. T.; Sankar, G.; Catlow, C. R. A.; Thomas, J. M.; Maschmeyer, T Bimetallic Clusters Supported on Mesoporous Silica: the Effects of Support Interactions on Cluster Morphology. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2001, 44, 395,  DOI: 10.1016/S1387-1811(01)00206-2
Google Scholar
40Alexeev, O.; Kim, D.-W.; Graham, G. W.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C Temperature-Programmed Desorption of Hydrogen from Platinum Particles on γ-Al2O3: Evidence of Platinum-Catalyzed Dehydroxylation of γ-Al2O3. J. Catal. 1999, 185, 170,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1999.2489
Google Scholar
41Ryndin, Y. A.; Alexeev, O. S.; Paukshtis, E. A.; Zaikovskii, V. I.; Kalinkin, A., Influence of Zr Ions on the Properties of Pd Supported on Graphite and Diamond. J. Mol. Catal. 1991, 68, 355,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(91)80093-I
Google Scholar
42Alexeev, O. S.; Zaikovskii, V. I.; Ryndin, Y. A Effects of the Interaction of Dispersed Metal Particles with the Support in Catalysts Prepared by Using Organometallic Compounds. V. Influence of Group IV B Ions on Adsorption and Catalytic Properties of Pd/SiO2. Appl. Catal. 1990, 63, 37,  DOI: 10.1016/S0166-9834(00)81704-2
Google Scholar
43Alexeev, O. S.; Ryndin, Y. A The Mechanism of the Interaction between Group VIII Metals and the Oxides of the Transition Elements. Usp. Khim. (Russ. Chem. Rev.) 1992, 61, 765
Google Scholar
44Ryndin, Y. A.; Nogin, Y. N.; Zverev, Y. B.; Chernyaev, N. P.; Abdikova, F. G.; Ermakov, Y., Influence of Rare Earth Ions on the Properties of Palladium/Silica in Carbon Monoxide Hydrogenation. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1986, 31, 151,  DOI: 10.1007/BF02062526
Google Scholar
45Chandler, B. D.; Pignolet, L. H DRIFTS Studies of Carbon Monoxide Coverage on Highly Dispersed Bimetallic Pt-Cu and Pt-Au Catalysts. Catal. Today 2001, 65, 39,  DOI: 10.1016/S0920-5861(00)00543-5
Google Scholar
46Lai, F.; Kim, D.-W.; Alexeev, O. S.; Graham, G. W.; Shelef, M.; Gates, B. C Temperature-programmed Desorption of Hydrogen from γ-Al2O3-supported Platinum Catalysts With and Without Tungsten. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 1997,  DOI: 10.1039/b000842g
Google Scholar
47Kip, B. J.; Duivenvoorden, F. B. M.; Koningsberger, D. C.; Prins, R Determination of Metal Particle Size of Highly Dispersed Rhodium, Iridium, and Platinum Catalysts by Hydrogen Chemisorption and EXAFS. J. Catal. 1987, 105, 26,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(87)90005-4
Google Scholar
48Alexeev, O. S.; Kim, D.-W.; Gates, B. C Partially Decarbonylated Tetrairidium Clusters on MgO: Structural Characterization and Catalysis of Toluene Hydrogenation. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 162, 67,  DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(00)00322-8
Google Scholar
49Alexeev, O.; Gates, B. C Iridium Clusters Supported on γ-Al2O3: Structural Characterization and Catalysis of Toluene Hydrogenation. J. Catal. 1998, 176, 310,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1998.2053
Google Scholar
50Alexeev, O.; Panjabi, G.; Gates, B. C Partially Decarbonylated Tetrairidium Clusters on γ-Al2O3: Structural Characterization and Catalysis of Toluene Hydrogenation. J. Catal. 1998, 173, 196,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1997.1907
Google Scholar
51Xu, Z.; Xiao, F.-S.; Purnell, S. K.; Alexeev, O.; Kawi, S.; Deutsch, S. E.; Gates, B. C Size-dependent Catalytic Activity of Supported Metal Clusters. Nature (London) 1994, 372, 346,  DOI: 10.1038/372346a0
Google Scholar
52Goellner, J. F.; Gates, B. C Synthesis and Characterization of Site-Isolated Hexarhodium Clusters on Titania Powder. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3269,  DOI: 10.1021/jp0040291
Google Scholar
53Burch, R.; Flambard, A. R Strong Metal-support Interactions in Nickel/Titania Catalysts: the Importance of Interfacial Phenomena. J. Catal. 1982, 78, 389,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(82)90322-0
Google Scholar
54Rieck, J. S.; Bell, A. T Studies of the Interactions of Hydrogen and Carbon Monoxide with Silica- and Lanthana-supported Palladium. J. Catal. 1985, 96, 88,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(85)90363-X
Google Scholar
55Bredikhin, M. N.; Lokhov, Y. A.; Kuznetsov, V. L Role of Support in Adsorption and Catalysis on Supported Metals. I. IR Study of Carbon Monoxide and Hydrogen Adsorption on Rhodium/silica, Rhodium/alumina, and Rhodium/lanthanum oxide. Kinet. Katal. 1987, 28, 671
Google Scholar
56Bredikhin, M. N.; Lokhov, Y. A Role of Support in Adsorption and Catalysis on Supported Metals. II. IR Study of Carbon Monoxide and Carbon Dioxide Adsorption on Rhodium/zirconia. Kinet. Katal. 1987, 28, 678
Google Scholar
57Bredikhin, M. N.; Lokhov, Y. A.; Zamaraev, K., Characteristics of Catalysts of the Group VIII Metal/transition Metal Oxide Type in Relation to Adsorption of Carbon Monoxide According to the IR Spectroscopic Data. Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR 1988, 301, 1124
Google Scholar
58Mehandru, S. P.; Anderson, A. B.; Ross, P. N Carbon Monoxide Adsorption on (111) and (100) Surfaces of the Platinum-titanium (Pt3Ti) Alloy: Evidence for Parallel Binding and Strong Activation of Carbon Monoxide. J. Catal. 1986, 100, 210,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(86)90086-2
Google Scholar
59Rice, R. W.; Haller, G. L Internal Reflection Spectroscopy of Adsorbed Molecules on Metal Films. Carbon Monoxide on Palladium. J. Catal. 1975, 40, 249,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(75)90252-3
Google Scholar
60Sachtler, W. M. H.; Shriver, D. F.; Hollenberg, W. B.; Lang, A. F Promoter Action in Fischer-Tropsch Catalysis. J. Catal. 1985, 92, 429,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(85)90278-7
Google Scholar
61Otten, M. M.; Lamb, H. H C- and O-Bonded Carbon Monoxide on Surfaces: Interactions of [CpW(CO)3]- with Cations on Magnesia, Alumina, and Potassium-Modified Alumina. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 1372,  DOI: 10.1021/ja00083a024
Google Scholar
62Alekseev, O. S.; Beutel, T.; Paukshtis, E. A.; Ryndin, Y. A.; Likholobov, V. A.; Knözinger, H FTIR Studies of CO Chemisorption and Reactivity on Rh/SiO2 Catalysts Promoted by Niobium Oxide. J. Mol. Catal. 1994, 92, 217,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(94)00072-7
Google Scholar
63Vannice, M. A The Use of Metal-support Interactions to Selectively Activate Carbonyl Bonds. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 59, 165,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(90)85051-I
Google Scholar
64Englisch, M.; Jentys, A.; Lercher, J. A Structure Sensitivity of the Hydrogenation of Crotonaldehyde over Pt/SiO2 and Pt/TiO2. J. Catal. 1997, 166, 25,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1997.1494
Google Scholar
65Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. Competitive C:C and C:O Adsorption of α,β Unsaturated Aldehydes on Pt and Pd Surfaces in Relation with the Selectivity of Hydrogenation Reactions:  a Theoretical Approach. J. Catal.1995, 152, 217. DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1995.1077
Google Scholar
66Vannice, M. A.; Sen, B Metal-support Effects on the Intramolecular Selectivity of Crotonaldehyde Hydrogenation over Platinum. J. Catal. 1989, 115, 65,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(89)90007-9
Google Scholar
67Coloma, F.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F Crotonaldehyde Hydrogenation over Bimetallic Pt-Sn Catalysts Supported on Pregraphitized Carbon Black. Effect of the Preparation Method. Appl. Catal. A 1996, 148, 63,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(96)00218-9
Google Scholar
68Coloma, F.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F Crotonaldehyde Hydrogenation over Bimetallic Pt-Sn Catalysts Supported on Pregraphitized Carbon Black. Effect of the Sn/Pt Atomic Ratio. Appl. Catal. A 1996, 136, 231,  DOI: 10.1016/0926-860X(95)00259-6
Google Scholar
69Richard, D.; Ockelford, J.; Giroir-Fendler, A.; Gallezot, P Composition and Catalytic Properties in Cinnamaldehyde Hydrogenation of Charcoal-supported Platinum Catalysts Modified by iron(II) chloride. Catal. Lett. 1989, 3, 53,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00765054
Google Scholar
70Raab, C. G.; Lercher, J. A Activity and Selectivity of NiPt/SiO2 Catalysts for Hydrogenation of Crotonaldehyde. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 75, 71,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(92)80104-O
Google Scholar
71Raab, C. G.; Lercher, J. A Activity and Selectivity of Platinum-nickel/titania Catalysts for Hydrogenation of Crotonaldehyde. Catal. Lett. 1993, 18, 99,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00769502
Google Scholar
72Waghray, A.; Wang, J.; Oukaci, R.; Blackmond, D. G Influence of Alkali Promoters in the Selective Hydrogenation of 3-methyl-2-butenal over Ruthenium/silica Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96, 5954,  DOI: 10.1021/j100193a056
Google Scholar
73Giroir-Fendler, A.; Richard, D.; Gallezot, P Chemoselectivity in the Catalytic Hydrogenation of Cinnamaldehyde. Effect of Metal Particle Morphology. Catal. Lett. 1990, 5, 175,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00763950
Google Scholar
74Galvagno, S.; Capannelli, G.; Neri, G.; Donato, A.; Pietropaolo, R Hydrogenation of Cinnamaldehyde over Ruthenium/carbon Catalysts: Effect of Ruthenium Particle Size. J. Mol. Catal. 1991, 64, 237,  DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(91)85115-I
Google Scholar
75Chandler, B. D.; Rubinstein, L. I.; Pignolet, L. H Alkane Dehydrogenation with Silica Supported Platinum and Platinum-gold Catalysts Derived from Phosphine Ligated Precursors. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1998, 133, 267,  DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(97)00281-1
Google Scholar
76Lin, S. D.; Vannice, M. A Hydrogenation of Aromatic Hydrocarbons over Supported Platinum Catalysts. I. Benzene Hydrogenation. J. Catal. 1993, 143, 539,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1993.1297
Google Scholar
77Lin, S. D.; Vannice, M. A Hydrogenation of Aromatic Hydrocarbons over Supported Platinum Catalysts. III. Reaction Models for Metal Surfaces and Acidic Sites on Oxide Supports. J. Catal. 1993, 143, 563,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1993.1299
Google Scholar
78Xiao, F.-S.; Weber, W. A.; Alexeev, O.; Gates, B. C Probing the Limits of Structure Insensitivity: Size-dependent Catalytic Activity of γ-Al2O3-supported Iridium Clusters and Particles for Toluene Hydrogenation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 101, 1135,  DOI: 10.1016/S0167-2991(96)80325-9
Google Scholar
79Heiz, U.; Schneider, W.-D Physical Chemistry of Supported Clusters. Met. Clusters Surf. 2000, 237
Google Scholar
80Heiz, U.; Sanchez, A.; Abbet, S.; Schneider, W.-D The Reactivity of Gold and Platinum Metals in their Cluster Phase. Eur. Phys. J. D 1999, 9, 35,  DOI: 10.1007/s100530050395
Google Scholar
81Akita, T.; Lu, P.; Ichikawa, S.; Tanaka, K.; Haruta, M Analytical TEM Study on the Dispersion of Au Nanoparticles in Au/TiO2 Catalyst Prepared under Various Temperatures. Surf. Interface Anal. 2001, 31, 73,  DOI: 10.1002/sia.959
Google Scholar
82Valden, M.; Lai, X.; Goodman, D. W Onset of Catalytic Activity of Gold clusters on Titania with the Appearance of Nonmetallic Properties. Science 1998, 281, 1647,  DOI: 10.1126/science.281.5383.1647
Google Scholar
83Argo, A. M.; Odzak, J. F.; Lai, F. S.; Gates, B. C Observation of Ligand Effects During Alkene Hydrogenation Catalysed by Supported Metal Clusters. Nature (London) 2002, 415, 623,  DOI: 10.1038/415623a
Google Scholar
84Via, G. H.; Drake, K. F.; Meitzner, G.; Lytle, F. W.; Sinfelt, J. H Analysis of EXAFS Data on Bimetallic Clusters. Catal. Lett. 1990, 5, 25,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00772090
Google Scholar
85Borvornwattananont, A.; Bein, T Reactivity of (Trimethyl stannyl)pentacarbonylmanganese in Zeolite Cavities. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96, 9447,  DOI: 10.1021/j100202a070
Google Scholar
86Shen, J. G. C.; Ichikawa, M Intrazeolite Anchoring of Co, Ru, and [Ru-Co] Carbonyl Clusters: Synthesis, Characterization, and Their Catalysis for CO Hydrogenation. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 5602,  DOI: 10.1021/jp973038f
Google Scholar
87Adams, R. D.; Chen, G.; Wu, W The Synthesis and Structural Analysis of Pt2Ru4(CO)18 and Products Obtained from Its Reactions with 1,2-Bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane. J. Cluster Sci. 1993, 4, 119,  DOI: 10.1007/BF00702713
Google Scholar
88Nashner, M. S.; Frenkel, A. I.; Somerville, D.; Hills, C. W.; Shapley, J. R.; Nuzzo, R. G Core Shell Inversion during Nucleation and Growth of Bimetallic Pt/Ru Nanoparticles. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 8093,  DOI: 10.1021/ja980638z
Google Scholar
89Nashner, M. S.; Frenkel, A. I.; Adler, D. L.; Shapley, J. R.; Nuzzo, R. G Structural Characterization of Carbon-Supported Platinum-Ruthenium Nanoparticles from the Molecular Cluster Precursor PtRu5C(CO)16. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 7760,  DOI: 10.1021/ja971039f
Google Scholar
90Deutsch, S. E.; Chang, J. R.; Gates, B. C Osmium Subcarbonyls on γ-alumina: Characterization of the Metal-support Bonding by Infrared, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, and X-ray Absorption Spectroscopies. Langmuir 1993, 9, 1284,  DOI: 10.1021/la00029a022
Google Scholar
91Hu, A.; Neyman, K. M.; Staufer, M.; Belling, T.; Gates, B. C.; Rösch, N A Surface Site as Polydentate Ligand of a Metal Complex: Density Functional Studies of Rhenium Subcarbonyls Supported on Magnesium Oxide. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1999, 121, 4522,  DOI: 10.1021/ja990083n
Google Scholar
92Ferrari, A. M.; Neyman, K. M.; Mayer, M.; Staufer, M.; Gates, B. C.; Rösch, N Faujasite-supported Ir4 Clusters. A Density Functional Model Study of Metal-zeolite Interactions. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 5311,  DOI: 10.1021/jp990369e
Google Scholar
93Lopez, N.; Illas, F.; Pacchioni, G Ab Initio Theory of Metal Deposition on SiO2. 1. Cun (n = 1-5) Clusters on Nonbridging Oxygen Defects. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 1712,  DOI: 10.1021/jp9840174
Google Scholar
94Goellner, J. F.; Neyman, K. M.; Mayer, M.; Nöertemann, F.; Gates, B. C.; Rösch, N Ligand-free Osmium Clusters Supported on MgO. A Density Functional Study. Langmuir 2000, 16, 2736,  DOI: 10.1021/la9912388
Google Scholar
95Alexeev, O.; Gates, B. C EXAFS Characterization of Supported Metal-complex and Metal-cluster Catalysts Made from Organometallic Precursors. Top. Catal. 2000, 10, 273,  DOI: 10.1023/A:1019184605678
Google Scholar
96Tomishige, K.; Nagasawa, Y.; Lee, U.; Iwasawa, Y Performance and Characterization of a [PtMo6]/MgO Catalyst: the Catalytic Activity for NO-CO Reactions and Structural Analysis by EXAFS. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1997, 70, 1607,  DOI: 10.1246/bcsj.70.1607
Google Scholar
97Shephard, D. S.; Maschmeyer, T.; Sankar, G.; Thomas, J. M.; Ozkaya, D.; Johnson, B. F. G.; Raja, R.; Oldroyd, R. D.; Bell, R. G. Preparation, Characterization and Performance of Encapsulated Copper−ruthenium Bimetallic Catalysts Derived from Molecular Cluster Carbonyl Precursors. Chem. Eur. J.1998, 4, 1214. DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1521-3765(19980710)4:7%3C1214::AID-CHEM1214%3E3.0.CO;2-E
Google Scholar
98Nashner, M. S.; Somerville, D. M.; Lane, P. D.; Adler, D. L.; Shapley, J. R.; Nuzzo, R. G Bimetallic Catalyst Particle Nanostructure. Evolution from Molecular Cluster Precursors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 12964,  DOI: 10.1021/ja962174f
Google Scholar
Cited By
This article is cited by 182 publications.
Hongliu Wan, Lixiang Qian, Nengfeng Gong, Huaming Hou, Xiaomeng Dou, Lirong Zheng, Liang Zhang, Lichen Liu. Size-Dependent Structures and Catalytic Properties of Supported Bimetallic PtSn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (11) , 7383-7394. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00548
Bruce C. Gates, Alexander Katz, Jingyue Liu. Nested Metal Catalysts: Metal Atoms and Clusters Stabilized by Confinement with Accessibility on Supports. Precision Chemistry 2023, 1 (1) , 3-13. https://doi.org/10.1021/prechem.2c00011
Bram Seynnaeve, Jeroen Lauwaert, Pascal Van Der Voort, An Verberckmoes. Comprehensive Model for the Synthesis of γ-Al2O3 Microsphere-Supported Bimetallic Iron- and Copper Oxide Materials. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (45) , 41796-41803. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c06273
Zhibin Cheng, Hui Pan, Ziyuan Wu, Michael Wübbenhorst, Zhangjing Zhang. Cu–Mo Bimetal Modulated Multifunctional Carbon Nanofibers Promoting the Polysulfides Conversion for High-Sulfur-Loading Lithium–Sulfur Batteries. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2022, 14 (40) , 45688-45696. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c13012
Turbasu Sengupta, Dinesh Bista, Shiv N. Khanna. Developing Efficient Suzuki Cross-Coupling Catalysts by Doping Palladium Clusters with Silver. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (18) , 11459-11468. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c02083
Junhong Fu, Jinhu Dong, Rui Si, Keju Sun, Junying Zhang, Mingrun Li, Nana Yu, Bingsen Zhang, Mark G. Humphrey, Qiang Fu, Jiahui Huang. Synergistic Effects for Enhanced Catalysis in a Dual Single-Atom Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 1952-1961. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05599
Ryan J. Witzke, Alon Chapovetsky, Matthew P. Conley, David M. Kaphan, Massimiliano Delferro. Nontraditional Catalyst Supports in Surface Organometallic Chemistry. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (20) , 11822-11840. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03350
Won-Tae Koo, Jill E. Millstone, Paul S. Weiss, Il-Doo Kim. The Design and Science of Polyelemental Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (6) , 6407-6413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c03993
Soichi Kikkawa, Kentaro Teramura, Hiroyuki Asakura, Saburo Hosokawa, Tsunehiro Tanaka. Isolated Platinum Atoms in Ni/γ-Al2O3 for Selective Hydrogenation of CO2 toward CH4. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (38) , 23446-23454. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b03432
Yueling Cao, Hepeng Zhang, Kangkai Liu, Qiuyu Zhang, Kai-Jie Chen. Biowaste-Derived Bimetallic Ru–MoOx Catalyst for the Direct Hydrogenation of Furfural to Tetrahydrofurfuryl Alcohol. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2019, 7 (15) , 12858-12866. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b01765
Konstantinos G. Papanikolaou, Matthew T. Darby, Michail Stamatakis. CO-Induced Aggregation and Segregation of Highly Dilute Alloys: A Density Functional Theory Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (14) , 9128-9138. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b00649
Nicole J. LiBretto, Ce Yang, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Identification of Surface Structures in Pt3Cr Intermetallic Nanocatalysts. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (5) , 1597-1609. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b04774
Puru Jena, Qiang Sun. Super Atomic Clusters: Design Rules and Potential for Building Blocks of Materials. Chemical Reviews 2018, 118 (11) , 5755-5870. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00524
Francisco Zaera . The Surface Chemistry of Metal-Based Hydrogenation Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2017, 7 (8) , 4947-4967. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b01368
Enrico Cattabriga, Iacopo Ciabatti, Cristina Femoni, Tiziana Funaioli, Maria Carmela Iapalucci, and Stefano Zacchini . Syntheses, Structures, and Electrochemistry of the Defective ccp [Pt33(CO)38]2– and the bcc [Pt40(CO)40]6– Molecular Nanoclusters. Inorganic Chemistry 2016, 55 (12) , 6068-6079. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b00607
Christophe Copéret, Aleix Comas-Vives, Matthew P. Conley, Deven P. Estes, Alexey Fedorov, Victor Mougel, Haruki Nagae, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, and Pavel A. Zhizhko . Surface Organometallic and Coordination Chemistry toward Single-Site Heterogeneous Catalysts: Strategies, Methods, Structures, and Activities. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (2) , 323-421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00373
Marco Bortoluzzi, Iacopo Ciabatti, Cristina Femoni, Mohammad Hayatifar, Maria Carmela Iapalucci, and Stefano Zacchini . [H3–nFe4(CO)12(IrCOD)]n− (n = 1, 2) and [H2Fe3(CO)10(IrCOD)]− Bimetallic Fe–Ir Hydride Carbonyl Clusters. Organometallics 2015, 34 (1) , 189-197. https://doi.org/10.1021/om5010513
Ziwei Li, Liuye Mo, Yasotha Kathiraser, and Sibudjing Kawi . Yolk–Satellite–Shell Structured Ni–Yolk@Ni@SiO2 Nanocomposite: Superb Catalyst toward Methane CO2 Reforming Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (5) , 1526-1536. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs401027p
Sumit Saha and Burjor Captain . Synthesis and Structural Characterization of Ruthenium Carbonyl Cluster Complexes Containing Platinum with a Bulky N-Heterocyclic Carbene Ligand. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53 (2) , 1210-1216. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic402832b
Weiting Yu, Marc D. Porosoff, and Jingguang G. Chen . Review of Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysis: From Model Surfaces to Supported Catalysts. Chemical Reviews 2012, 112 (11) , 5780-5817. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300096b
Andreas Haghofer, Karin Föttinger, Maarten Nachtegaal, Marc Armbrüster, and Günther Rupprechter . Microstructural Changes of Supported Intermetallic Nanoparticles under Reductive and Oxidative Conditions: An in Situ X-ray Absorption Study of Pd/Ga2O3. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (41) , 21816-21827. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp3061224
Ming Wen, Mingzhu Cheng, Shiqing Zhou, Qingsheng Wu, Na Wang, and Linyi Zhou . Synthesis of Reusable NiCo@Pt Nanoalloys from Icosahedrons to Spheres by Element Lithography and Their Synergistic Photocatalysis for Nano-ZnO toward Dye Wastewater Degradation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (21) , 11702-11708. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp2115912
M. Eyrich, T. Diemant, H. Hartmann, J. Bansmann, and R. J. Behm . Interaction of CO with Structurally Well-Defined Monolayer PtAu/Pt(111) Surface Alloys. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (20) , 11154-11165. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp302469c
Richard D. Adams, Fang Fang, and Qiang Zhang , Michael B. Hall and Eszter Trufan . α-Cleavage of Phenyl Groups from GePh3 Ligands in Iridium Carbonyl Cluster Complexes. A Mechanism and Its Role in the Synthesis of Bridging Germylene Ligands. Organometallics 2012, 31 (7) , 2621-2630. https://doi.org/10.1021/om2007002
Erika Simona Cozza, Valentina Bruzzo, Fabio Carniato, Enrico Marsano, and Orietta Monticelli . On a Novel Catalytic System Based on Electrospun Nanofibers and M-POSS. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2012, 4 (2) , 604-607. https://doi.org/10.1021/am201766r
Alessandro Ceriotti, Matteo Daghetta, Simona El Afefey, Andrea Ienco, Giuliano Longoni, Gabriele Manca, Carlo Mealli, Stefano Zacchini, and Salvatore Zarra . Electronic Stabilization of Trigonal Bipyramidal Clusters: the Role of the Sn(II) Ions in [Pt5(CO)5{Cl2Sn(μ-OR)SnCl2}3]3– (R = H, Me, Et, iPr). Inorganic Chemistry 2011, 50 (24) , 12553-12561. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic201519j
George L. Athens, Donghun Kim, Jan D. Epping, Sylvian Cadars, Yair Ein-Eli, and Bradley F. Chmelka . Molecular Optimization of Multiply-Functionalized Mesoporous Films with Ion Conduction Properties. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2011, 133 (40) , 16023-16036. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja2038529
Barr Halevi, Eric J. Peterson, Andrew DeLaRiva, Ese Jeroro, Vanessa M. Lebarbier, Yong Wang, John M. Vohs, Boris Kiefer, Edward Kunkes, Michael Havecker, Malte Behrens, Robert Schlögl, and Abhaya K. Datye . Aerosol-Derived Bimetallic Alloy Powders: Bridging the Gap. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2010, 114 (40) , 17181-17190. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp103967x
Richard D. Adams and William C. Pearl, Jr.. Reactions of Bis(tri-tert-butylphosphine)platinum with Metal Hydride Complexes. The Reactions of Pt(P-t-Bu3)2 with HRe(CO)4SbPh3. Organometallics 2010, 29 (17) , 3887-3895. https://doi.org/10.1021/om100569j
Minghuey Shieh, Chien-Nan Lin, Chia-Yeh Miu, Miao-Hsing Hsu, Yi-Wen Pan and Li-Fang Ho. Chromium−Manganese Selenide Carbonyl Complexes: Paramagnetic Clusters and Relevance to C═O Activation of Acetone. Inorganic Chemistry 2010, 49 (17) , 8056-8066. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic101118y
Jing Xu, Tim White, Ping Li, Chongheng He, Jianguo Yu, Weikang Yuan and Yi-Fan Han. Biphasic Pd−Au Alloy Catalyst for Low-Temperature CO Oxidation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2010, 132 (30) , 10398-10406. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja102617r
Patrina Paraskevopoulou, Christodoulos Makedonas, Nikolaos Psaroudakis, Christiana A. Mitsopoulou, Georgios Floros, Andriana Seressioti, Marinos Ioannou, Yiannis Sanakis, Nigam Rath, Carlos J. Gómez García, Pericles Stavropoulos and Konstantinos Mertis . Isolation, Characterization, and Computational Studies of the Novel [Mo3(μ3-Br)2(μ-Br)3Br6]2− Cluster Anion. Inorganic Chemistry 2010, 49 (5) , 2068-2076. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic901432j
Claudia Dragonetti, Lucia Carlucci, Giuseppe D’Alfonso, Elena Lucenti, Piero Macchi, Dominique Roberto, Angelo Sironi and Renato Ugo. Synthesis, Spectroscopic, and X-ray Characterization of Rhenium Carbonyl Complexes with Different Silsesquioxanes, as Models That Mimic the Chemical Behavior and the Topology of the Silica Surface. Organometallics 2009, 28 (9) , 2668-2676. https://doi.org/10.1021/om800991s
Errun Ding, Matthew R. Sturgeon, Aaron Rath, Xuenian Chen, Mark A. Keane and Sheldon G. Shore . Syntheses and Structures of Alkaline Earth−Transition Metal Bimetallic Complexes As Heterogeneous Hydrodechlorination Catalyst Precursors. Inorganic Chemistry 2009, 48 (1) , 325-330. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic801912x
Martin Graeser,, Eckhard Pippel,, Andreas Greiner, and, Joachim H. Wendorff. Polymer Core−Shell Fibers with Metal Nanoparticles as Nanoreactor for Catalysis. Macromolecules 2007, 40 (17) , 6032-6039. https://doi.org/10.1021/ma070898d
Daojian Cheng,, Wenchuan Wang, and, Shiping Huang. Thermal Evolution of Pd and Pd−Pt Clusters Supported on MgO(100). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2007, 111 (22) , 8037-8042. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp070534n
K. M. Kerry Yu,, Connie M. Y. Yeung, and, Shik Chi Tsang. Carbon Dioxide Fixation into Chemicals (Methyl Formate) at High Yields by Surface Coupling over a Pd/Cu/ZnO Nanocatalyst. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2007, 129 (20) , 6360-6361. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0706302
Polly L. Arnold,, Stephen T. Liddle,, Jonathan McMaster,, Cameron Jones, and, David P. Mills. A Lanthanide−Gallium Complex Stabilized by the N-Heterocyclic Carbene Group. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2007, 129 (17) , 5360-5361. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0710858
Germán Cavigliasso and, Nikolas Kaltsoyannis. On the Paucity of Molecular Actinide Complexes with Unsupported Metal−Metal Bonds:  A Comparative Investigation of the Electronic Structure and Metal−Metal Bonding in U2X6 (X = Cl, F, OH, NH2, CH3) Complexes and d-Block Analogues. Inorganic Chemistry 2006, 45 (17) , 6828-6839. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic060777e
Saowapa Chotisuwan,, Jatuporn Wittayakun, and, Bruce C. Gates. Pt3Ru6 Clusters Supported on γ-Al2O3:  Synthesis from Pt3Ru6(CO)21(μ3-H)(μ-H)3, Structural Characterization, and Catalysis of Ethylene Hydrogenation and n-Butane Hydrogenolysis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2006, 110 (25) , 12459-12469. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp057550+
A. M. Goda,, M. A. Barteau, and, J. G. Chen. Correlating Electronic Properties of Bimetallic Surfaces with Reaction Pathways of C2 Hydrocarbons. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2006, 110 (24) , 11823-11831. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0554689
Wei Quan Tian,, Maofa Ge,, Fenglong Gu,, Toshiki Yamada, and, Yuriko Aoki. Binary Clusters AuPt and Au6Pt:  Structure and Reactivity within Density Functional Theory. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2006, 110 (19) , 6285-6293. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp055506o
Natalie N. Hoover,, Bethany J. Auten, and, Bert D. Chandler. Tuning Supported Catalyst Reactivity with Dendrimer-Templated Pt−Cu Nanoparticles. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2006, 110 (17) , 8606-8612. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp060833x
Attilio Siani,, Burjor Captain,, Oleg S. Alexeev,, Eirini Stafyla,, Ana B. Hungria,, Paul A. Midgley,, John Meurig Thomas,, Richard D. Adams, and, Michael D. Amiridis. Improved CO Oxidation Activity in the Presence and Absence of Hydrogen over Cluster-Derived PtFe/SiO2 Catalysts. Langmuir 2006, 22 (11) , 5160-5167. https://doi.org/10.1021/la053476a
Richard D. Adams,, Carl B. Hollandsworth, and, Jack L. Smith, Jr.. Unsaturated Cyclopentadienyl-Molybdenum and Tungsten Carbonyl Cluster Complexes Containing Pd- and Pt(PBut3) Groups. Organometallics 2006, 25 (10) , 2673-2682. https://doi.org/10.1021/om060107g
Leonardo Belpassi,, Francesco Tarantelli, and, Antonio Sgamellotti, , Harry M. Quiney. The Electronic Structure of Alkali Aurides. A Four-Component Dirac−Kohn−Sham Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2006, 110 (13) , 4543-4554. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp054938w
Lorna B. Ortiz-Soto,, Oleg S. Alexeev, and, Michael D. Amiridis. Low Temperature Oxidation of CO over Cluster-Derived Platinum−Gold Catalysts. Langmuir 2006, 22 (7) , 3112-3117. https://doi.org/10.1021/la052358k
Richard D. Adams,, Burjor Captain, and, Lei Zhu. Synthesis of PtRu5(CO)14(PBut3)(μ-H)2(μ6-C) and Its Reactions with Pt(PBut3)2, HGePh3, and HSnPh3. Inorganic Chemistry 2005, 44 (19) , 6623-6631. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic051007q
Richard D. Adams,, Burjor Captain, and, Lei Zhu. New High Nuclearity Platinum−Ruthenium Carbonyl Cluster Complexes Containing a Phenylacetylene Ligand:  Structures and Properties. Organometallics 2005, 24 (10) , 2419-2423. https://doi.org/10.1021/om050175n
Robert W. J. Scott,, Chinta Sivadinarayana,, Orla M. Wilson,, Zhen Yan,, D. Wayne Goodman, and, Richard M. Crooks. Titania-Supported PdAu Bimetallic Catalysts Prepared from Dendrimer-Encapsulated Nanoparticle Precursors. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2005, 127 (5) , 1380-1381. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja044446h
Huifang Lang,, Stephen Maldonado,, Keith J. Stevenson, and, Bert D. Chandler. Synthesis and Characterization of Dendrimer Templated Supported Bimetallic Pt−Au Nanoparticles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2004, 126 (40) , 12949-12956. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja046542o
Richard D. Adams,, Burjor Captain,, Wei Fu,, Jack L. Smith, Jr., and, Mark D. Smith. Addition of Platinum and Palladium Tri-tert-butyl Phosphine Groups to Open Pt−Fe and Pt−Ru Metal Carbonyl Clusters. Organometallics 2004, 23 (3) , 589-594. https://doi.org/10.1021/om0342659
Peng Zhai, David A. Cullen, Kunlun Ding. The role of surface chemistry in the synthesis of supported CuPd bimetallic/intermetallic catalysts for selective hydrogenation reactions. Chemical Engineering Journal 2024, 480 , 148238. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.148238
Saima Ashraf, Yanyan Liu, Huijuan Wei, Ruofan Shen, Huanhuan Zhang, Xianli Wu, Sehrish Mehdi, Tao Liu, Baojun Li. Bimetallic Nanoalloy Catalysts for Green Energy Production: Advances in Synthesis Routes and Characterization Techniques. Small 2023, 19 (43) https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202303031
Dan Liu, Zicheng Wang, Zichen Guo, Yuan Tian, Cheng Wang. Electrospun CuCoN0.6 coating necklace-like N-doped carbon nanofibers for high performance lithium-sulfur batteries. Journal of Colloid and Interface Science 2023, 645 , 705-714. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.04.183
Jiabao Hu, Shunping Shi, Xia Li, Leilei Tang, Chunyu Yao, Yong Li, Deliang Chen. Reaction mechanism of ZrAln (n = 1–4) clusters and water molecules: A density functional theory study. Materials Today Communications 2023, 36 , 106800. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2023.106800
Xi Sun, Hui Li. Recent progress of Ga-based liquid metals in catalysis. RSC Advances 2022, 12 (38) , 24946-24957. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2RA04795K
Guillermo Ortega, Estefanía Germán, María J. López, Julio A. Alonso. Catalytic activity of Co–Ag nanoalloys to dissociate molecular hydrogen. New insights on the chemical environment. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47 (44) , 19038-19050. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.04.090
Huayi Shi, Bin Song, Runzhi Chen, Qiang Zhang, Guyue Hu, Jing Li, Jinhua Wang, Xinyu Meng, Houyu Wang, Yao He. Microfluidic-enabled ambient-temperature synthesis of ultrasmall bimetallic nanoparticles. Nano Research 2022, 15 (1) , 248-254. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3466-0
Puru Jena, Qiang Sun. Introduction. 2021, 1-14. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119619574.ch1
Chungseong Park, Won‐Tae Koo, Sanggyu Chong, Hamin Shin, Yoon Hwa Kim, Hee‐Jin Cho, Ji‐Soo Jang, Dong‐Ha Kim, Jiyoung Lee, Seyeon Park, Jaehyun Ko, Jihan Kim, Il‐Doo Kim. Confinement of Ultrasmall Bimetallic Nanoparticles in Conductive Metal–Organic Frameworks via Site‐Specific Nucleation. Advanced Materials 2021, 33 (38) https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202101216
András Sápi, T. Rajkumar, János Kiss, Ákos Kukovecz, Zoltán Kónya, Gabor A. Somorjai. Metallic Nanoparticles in Heterogeneous Catalysis. Catalysis Letters 2021, 151 (8) , 2153-2175. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-020-03477-5
Bidyut B. Sarma, Giovanni Agostini, Marcos G. Farpón, Carlo Marini, Norbert Pfänder, Gonzalo Prieto. Bottom-up assembly of bimetallic nanocluster catalysts from oxide-supported single-atom precursors. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2021, 9 (13) , 8401-8415. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA00421B
Alfonso Gómez Herranz, Estefanía Germán, Julio A. Alonso, María J. López. Interaction of hydrogen with palladium–copper nanoalloys. Theoretical Chemistry Accounts 2021, 140 (4) https://doi.org/10.1007/s00214-021-02737-w
Valeriya Zarubina, Ignacio Melián-Cabrera. On the geometric trajectories of pores during the thermal sintering of relevant catalyst supports. Scripta Materialia 2021, 194 , 113679. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2020.113679
Shi-Long Xu, Shan-Cheng Shen, Ze-Yue Wei, Shuai Zhao, Lu-Jie Zuo, Ming-Xi Chen, Lei Wang, Yan-Wei Ding, Ping Chen, Sheng-Qi Chu, Yue Lin, Kun Qian, Hai-Wei Liang. A library of carbon-supported ultrasmall bimetallic nanoparticles. Nano Research 2020, 13 (10) , 2735-2740. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-020-2920-8
Lei Wang, Peng Yin, Le-Le Zhang, Shan-Cheng Shen, Shi-Long Xu, Ping Chen, Hai-Wei Liang. Nitrogen-fixing of ultrasmall Pd-based bimetallic nanoclusters on carbon supports. Journal of Catalysis 2020, 389 , 297-304. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2020.06.003
Shi-Long Xu, Shan-Cheng Shen, Shuai Zhao, Yan-Wei Ding, Sheng-Qi Chu, Ping Chen, Yue Lin, Hai-Wei Liang. Synthesis of carbon-supported sub-2 nanometer bimetallic catalysts by strong metal–sulfur interaction. Chemical Science 2020, 11 (30) , 7933-7939. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0SC02620D
Li‐Zhen Li, Shi‐Long Xu, Shan‐Cheng Shen, Lei Wang, Ming Zuo, Ping Chen, Hai‐Wei Liang. A Sulfur‐Fixing Strategy toward Carbon‐Supported Ru‐Based Bimetallic Nanocluster Catalysts. ChemNanoMat 2020, 6 (6) , 969-975. https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.202000054
Roberto Fiorenza. Bimetallic Catalysts for Volatile Organic Compound Oxidation. Catalysts 2020, 10 (6) , 661. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal10060661
M. Antonietti. clusters. 2020https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527809080.cataz03721
G. Bharathan, P.P. Selvi, R.K. Arunprasad, M. Gokulkumar. Experimental studies on nanocomposites to catalyze fructose sources for the synthesis of dimethylfuran as a promising alternate fuel using coil reactor. Materials Today: Proceedings 2020, 33 , 2351-2357. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2020.04.700
Alisa Govender, Ezra J. Olivier, Emanuela Carleschi, Eric Prestat, Sarah J. Haigh, Hendrik van Rensburg, Bryan P. Doyle, Werner Barnard, Roy P. Forbes, Johannes H. Neethling, Eric van Steen. Morphological and compositional changes of MFe2O4@Co3O4 (M = Ni, Zn) core-shell nanoparticles after mild reduction. Materials Characterization 2019, 155 , 109806. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchar.2019.109806
Lichen Liu, Miguel Lopez-Haro, Christian W. Lopes, Chengeng Li, Patricia Concepcion, Laura Simonelli, Jose J. Calvino, Avelino Corma. Regioselective generation and reactivity control of subnanometric platinum clusters in zeolites for high-temperature catalysis. Nature Materials 2019, 18 (8) , 866-873. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-019-0412-6
Kunlun Ding, David A. Cullen, Laibao Zhang, Zhi Cao, Amitava D. Roy, Ilia N. Ivanov, Dongmei Cao. A general synthesis approach for supported bimetallic nanoparticles via surface inorganometallic chemistry. Science 2018, 362 (6414) , 560-564. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aau4414
Xiao Dong, Peng Zheng, Ai-Guo Zheng, Hui-Feng Li, Guo-Fu Xia, Ming-Feng Li, Ren-Yang Zheng, Bo-Qing Xu. Noble-metal efficient Pt-Ir-Co/SiO2 catalyst for selective hydrogenolytic ring opening of methylcyclopentane. Catalysis Today 2018, 316 , 162-170. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2018.03.059
V. M. Samsonov, A. G. Bembel, A. Yu. Kartoshkin, S. A. Vasilyev, I. V. Talyzin. Molecular dynamics and thermodynamic simulations of segregation phenomena in binary metal nanoparticles. Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry 2018, 133 (2) , 1207-1217. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10973-018-7245-4
Jian Zhang, Liang Wang, Bingsen Zhang, Haishuang Zhao, Ute Kolb, Yihan Zhu, Lingmei Liu, Yu Han, Guoxiong Wang, Chengtao Wang, Dang Sheng Su, Bruce C. Gates, Feng-Shou Xiao. Sinter-resistant metal nanoparticle catalysts achieved by immobilization within zeolite crystals via seed-directed growth. Nature Catalysis 2018, 1 (7) , 540-546. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0098-1
Liang Wang, Shaodan Xu, Shenxian He, Feng-Shou Xiao. Rational construction of metal nanoparticles fixed in zeolite crystals as highly efficient heterogeneous catalysts. Nano Today 2018, 20 , 74-83. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nantod.2018.04.004
L.M. Molina, A. Benito, J.A. Alonso. Ab initio studies of ethanol dehydrogenation at binary AuPd nanocatalysts. Molecular Catalysis 2018, 449 , 8-13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2018.01.023
Ruixuan Qin, Pengxin Liu, Gang Fu, Nanfeng Zheng. Strategies for Stabilizing Atomically Dispersed Metal Catalysts. Small Methods 2018, 2 (1) https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.201700286
Enrico Cattabriga, Iacopo Ciabatti, Cristina Femoni, Maria Carmela Iapalucci, Giuliano Longoni, Stefano Zacchini. Globular molecular platinum carbonyl nanoclusters: Synthesis and molecular structures of the [Pt 26 (CO) 32 ] − and [Pt 14+x (CO) 18+x ] 4− anions and their comparison to related platinum “browns”. Inorganica Chimica Acta 2018, 470 , 238-249. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ica.2017.04.045
Yu Zhao, Yunqing Kang, Hui Li, Hexing Li. CO 2 conversion to synthesis gas via DRM on the durable Al 2 O 3 /Ni/Al 2 O 3 sandwich catalyst with high activity and stability. Green Chemistry 2018, 20 (12) , 2781-2787. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8GC00743H
Julieta P. Stassi, Virginia I. Rodríguez, María J. Yañez, Sergio R. de Miguel, Patricia D. Zgolicz. Selective Hydrogenation of Citral with Carbon Nanotubes Supported Bimetallic Catalysts Prepared by Deposition–Reduction in Liquid Phase and Conventional Impregnation Methods. Catalysis Letters 2017, 147 (8) , 1903-1921. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-017-2091-8
Grant E. Johnson, Julia Laskin. In‐Plane Multimagnetron Approach. 2017, 79-100. https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527698417.ch5
Simon T. Thompson, H. Henry Lamb. Catalysts for selective hydrogenation of furfural derived from the double complex salt [Pd(NH3)4](ReO4)2 on γ-Al2O3. Journal of Catalysis 2017, 350 , 111-121. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.03.019
Simon T. Thompson, H. Henry Lamb, Bernard Delley, Stefan Franzen. Vibrational spectroscopy of the double complex salt Pd(NH3)4(ReO4)2, a bimetallic catalyst precursor. Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular Spectroscopy 2017, 173 , 618-624. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.saa.2016.10.011
Yuwei Kan, Qiang Zhang. Transition Metal Complexes for Hydrogen Activation. 2017, 43-84. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53514-1_2
Steven Pellizzeri, Isaac A. Jones, Hieu A. Doan, Randall Q. Snurr, Rachel B. Getman. Using Gas-Phase Clusters to Screen Porphyrin-Supported Nanocluster Catalysts for Ethane Oxidation to Ethanol. Catalysis Letters 2016, 146 (12) , 2566-2573. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-016-1890-7
Alisa Govender, Werner Barnard, Ezra J. Olivier, Roy P. Forbes, Eric van Steen, Johannes H. Neethling. Synthesis and characterization of NiFe2O4@Co3O4 core-shell nanoparticles. Materials Characterization 2016, 121 , 93-102. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchar.2016.09.036
Trenton Otto, José M. Ramallo-López, Lisandro J. Giovanetti, Félix G. Requejo, Stacey I. Zones, Enrique Iglesia. Synthesis of stable monodisperse AuPd, AuPt, and PdPt bimetallic clusters encapsulated within LTA-zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 2016, 342 , 125-137. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.07.017
Anjaneyulu Koppaka, Vincent Zollo, Sedigheh Etezadi, David C. Lever, Burjor Captain. Addition of Pt(IPr) Groupings to Ru5 Carbide Gives New Mixed-Metal Pt–Ru Cluster Complexes. Journal of Cluster Science 2016, 27 (5) , 1671-1681. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10876-016-1031-x
X.Y. Gao, K. Hidajat, S. Kawi. Facile synthesis of Ni/SiO 2 catalyst by sequential hydrogen/air treatment: A superior anti-coking catalyst for dry reforming of methane. Journal of CO2 Utilization 2016, 15 , 146-153. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcou.2016.05.007
Ahmad Alshammari, V. Kalevaru, Andreas Martin. Bimetallic Catalysts Containing Gold and Palladium for Environmentally Important Reactions. Catalysts 2016, 6 (7) , 97. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal6070097
Marco Bortoluzzi, Alessandro Ceriotti, Iacopo Ciabatti, Roberto Della Pergola, Cristina Femoni, Maria Carmela Iapalucci, Alba Storione, Stefano Zacchini. Platinum carbonyl clusters stabilized by Sn( ii )-based fragments: syntheses and structures of [Pt 6 (CO) 6 (SnCl 2 ) 2 (SnCl 3 ) 4 ] 4− , [Pt 9 (CO) 8 (SnCl 2 ) 3 (SnCl 3 ) 2 (Cl 2 SnOCOSnCl 2 )] 4− and [Pt 10 (CO) 14 {Cl 2 Sn(OH)SnCl 2 } 2 ] 2−. Dalton Transactions 2016, 45 (12) , 5001-5013. https://doi.org/10.1039/C5DT04696C
Yu-Sheng Shi, Zi-Fei Yuan, Qian Wei, Ke-Qiang Sun, Bo-Qing Xu. Pt–FeO x /SiO 2 catalysts prepared by galvanic displacement show high selectivity for cinnamyl alcohol production in the chemoselective hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde. Catalysis Science & Technology 2016, 6 (19) , 7033-7037. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY01340F
Shuai Yuan, Ying‐Pin Chen, Junsheng Qin, Weigang Lu, Xuan Wang, Qiang Zhang, Mathieu Bosch, Tian‐Fu Liu, Xizhen Lian, Hong‐Cai Zhou. Cooperative Cluster Metalation and Ligand Migration in Zirconium Metal–Organic Frameworks. Angewandte Chemie 2015, 127 (49) , 14909-14913. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201505625
Shuai Yuan, Ying‐Pin Chen, Junsheng Qin, Weigang Lu, Xuan Wang, Qiang Zhang, Mathieu Bosch, Tian‐Fu Liu, Xizhen Lian, Hong‐Cai Zhou. Cooperative Cluster Metalation and Ligand Migration in Zirconium Metal–Organic Frameworks. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2015, 54 (49) , 14696-14700. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201505625
Fenglin Liao, Tsz Woon Benedict Lo, Shik Chi Edman Tsang. Recent Developments in Palladium‐Based Bimetallic Catalysts. ChemCatChem 2015, 7 (14) , 1998-2014. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201500245
Virginia Vetere, Andrea B. Merlo, Mónica L. Casella. Chemoselective hydrogenation of aromatic ketones with Pt-based heterogeneous catalysts. Substituent effects. Applied Catalysis A: General 2015, 491 , 70-77. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2014.11.010
Load all citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research
Cite this: Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2003, 42, 8, 1571–1587
https://doi.org/10.1021/ie020351h
Published November 8, 2002
Copyright © 2003 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
3257
Altmetric
4
Citations
182
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Bimetallic Sites for Catalysis: From Binuclear Metal Sites to Bimetallic Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles
March 27, 2023Chemical Reviews
Lichen Liu* and Avelino Corma*
Metal Catalysts for Heterogeneous Catalysis: From Single Atoms to Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles
April 16, 2018Chemical Reviews
Lichen Liu and Avelino Corma*
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the controlled assembly of bimetallic species on oxide surfaces.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Synthesis of bimetallics by reaction of Sn(n-C4H9)4 with supported metal clusters.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Simplified structural model of a bilayer consisting of Mo ions interacting with a MgO support and providing a nest for highly dispersed Pd clusters. According to this model, the cationic Mo is strongly bonded to the support and helps to maintain the dispersion of the Pd.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Simplified model based on EXAFS data of Re4Pt2 clusters formed on the surface of γ-Al2O3 from Re2Pt(CO)12 clusters. (6)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Structure of the crystalline [Pt2Ru4(CO)18] cluster determined by XRD. (87)