<quotes>
[1] "The pillared phlogophites, especially those treated with oxalic or citric acids are characterized by isotherms of type I in the low-pressure range, and isotherms of type II at higher pressure."
[2] "Deposition of transition metals (TM) reduced the surface area and porosity of the pillared phlogophites. This effect is more significant for the Fe-modified samples, probably due to a higher loading of this transition metal as compared to the copper containing samples."
[3] "The chemical nature of transition metal species deposited on the Al2O3-pillared phlogophites was studied by UV-Vis-DR spectroscopy. Figure 3 presents differential spectra (difference between the spectrum of the transition metal modified sample and that of the support) related only to the state of introduced transition metals."
[4] "The modified phlogophites were tested as catalysts of the selective reduction of NO with ammonia. The results of these studies are presented in Fig. 4. The pillared phlogophite unmodified with transition metals (P-NA-OA-Al) has shown activity only at temperature above 350C."
[5] "A significant increase in the catalytic activity of the phlogophite samples was observed after the deposition of transition metals."
[6] "The Fe-containing catalysts (Fig. 4A) were active at lower temperatures than the phlogophites modified with copper (Fig. 4B)."
[7] "Moreover, iron is present mainly in the form of oligomeric and bulky oxide species, which are catalytically active in the low temperature DeNOx and also in the side reaction of ammonia oxidation by oxygen."
[8] "As was shown in Table 1, these samples were characterized by significantly higher surface area and porosity than the materials unmodified in this way. Therefore, it seems that the textural parameters of the samples strongly influence their catalytic performance."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Phlogophites treated with oxalic or citric acids display isotherms of type I in the low-pressure range and type II at higher pressure.
2. The surface area and porosity of pillared phlogophites decrease upon deposition of transition metals, with iron-modified samples experiencing a more pronounced effect due to higher metal loading.
3. UV-Vis-DR spectroscopy reveals the chemical nature of deposited transition metal species.
4. Pillared phlogophites without transition metals exhibit activity above 350°C.
5. The introduction of transition metals significantly enhances the catalytic activity of phlogophite samples.
6. Iron-containing catalysts show activity at lower temperatures compared to copper-modified phlogophites.
7. Iron is predominantly found in oligomeric and bulky oxide forms, which are active at low temperatures for DeNOx and ammonia oxidation.
8. Textural parameters, including surface area and porosity, significantly impact the catalytic performance of the modified phlogophites.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 处理过草酸或柠檬酸的磷灰石表现出在低压范围内的类型I等温线和高压范围内的类型II等温线。
2. 通过过渡金属沉积，磷灰石的表面积和孔隙率减少，铁改性样品的效果更为明显，这可能是由于铁的更高负载。
3. 紫外可见-直接反射光谱研究揭示了沉积过渡金属物种的化学性质。
4. 未经过渡金属修饰的磷灰石仅在高于350°C时显示活性。
5. 引入过渡金属显著提高了磷灰石样品的催化活性。
6. 铁基催化剂在较低温度下表现出活性，与铜修饰的磷灰石相比。
7. 铁主要以寡聚的和体积大的氧化物形式存在，这些在低温下的DeNOx和氨氧化反应中是活性的。
8. 样品的结构参数，包括表面积和孔隙率，对它们的催化性能有显著影响。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
