3.4 Coprecipitation
This method starts with a solution of salts of the host cation and of the dopant, which are treated with a chemical that precipitates simultaneously both cations. The precipitate is washed, dried, and calcined at high temperature. An alternative is to precipitate the solid salts by evaporating the solvent. An interesting example of this method is provided by the work of Zhao and Gorte. (96) They prepared a large number of doped ceria catalysts and used them for n-butane combustion. The coprecipitation was carried out by dissolving Ce(NO3)4 together with a precursor for the dopant, which was either a nitrate (for Gd, Y, La, Sm, Yb, Pr dopants), or a chloride (for Nb, Ta dopants), or an oxynitrate ZrO(NO3)2 (for Zr dopant). The solvent was evaporated, which caused coprecipitation, and the residue was calcined at 600 °C in air. The Nb-doped ceria was also prepared by the coprecipitation of an aqueous solution of Ce(NO3)4 and NbCl5 by treatment with NH4OH. The precipitate was washed, dried, and calcined in air at 600 °C. The two Nb-doped ceria samples have different n-butane combustion rates: the rate for the sample made from hydroxide was ∼5% higher. The effective activation energies were also different (85 kJ/mol for the sample obtained from the coprecipitated hydroxides and 105 kJ/mol for the other sample).
Avgouropoulos et al. (91) prepared Cu-doped CeO2 by coprecipitation and by combustion (see below a description of the combustion method) and compared the catalytic performance of the solids obtained by the two methods, for the selective oxidation of CO. The coprecipitation method started with an aqueous solution of Cu(NO3)2·3H2O and Ce(NO3)2·6H2O to which a Na2CO3 solution was added dropwise, under continuous stirring. The pH was kept below 6.0. The precipitate was filtered, washed, dried at 110 °C for 12 h, and calcined for 4 h in flowing air at 650 °C. While the Cu/(Cu+Ce) atomic ratio in the precursor solution was 0.143, the same ratio in the surface region (derived from XPS) was 0.61; Cu accumulates in the surface region probed by XPS. CuO XRD peaks are observed in the sample prepared by coprecipitation or impregnation, but not in the one prepared by combustion.
Other experiments have shown that one is not guaranteed to obtain a doped oxide by coprecipitation. Muhammed and co-workers (97) prepared 10% doped ceria catalysts for oxygen storage by coprecipitation of oxalates. Eleven different dopants were investigated. All samples formed doped oxides except for the one that attempted to use Co as a dopant but ended with a separate Co3O4 phase. Teller et al. (98) synthesized Sb2O4 doped with Mo (1.5 at. %) or V (5 at. %) by coprecipitation and by intermixing and grinding the two oxides. They found no difference in the properties of the catalysts prepared by the two methods. Neutron diffraction showed that the Sb2O4 lattice was unchanged, and EXAFS showed the Mo atoms were surrounded by 3–5 nearest O atoms and gave bond lengths that excluded the possibility that Mo is sitting at Sb site. They concluded that Mo is trapped interstitially in the Sb oxide. The same measurements were used to conclude that the V atom substitutes the asymmetrical site of Sb. The fact that intermixing and grinding produces a material with the same properties as coprecipitation is not entirely unexpected; one can think that coprecipitation is just another way of mixing the two solids.
3.5 Sol–Gel Synthesis
In this method, the precursors are chosen so that they make a gel having a uniform distribution of the cations (of the host oxide and of the dopant). Liu et al. (99) have prepared Ce1–xFexO2 (x = 0.1–0.5) by the citric acid sol–gel method. Citric acid powder was added to a solution of cerium and iron nitrate. The water was evaporated at 80 °C with stirring, and the resulting gel was dried (in this particular example, microwaves were used) and calcined at 700 °C, in air, for 4 h. The XRD measurements showed that the material with x = 0.1 has ceria structure. The UV–vis spectra had no signal typical of iron oxide. Segregation of Fe3O4 is observed for x > 0.1. Temperature programmed reduction with hydrogen shows that Ce0.9Fe0.1O2 is more reducible than CeO2 and is a better methane combustion catalyst than either undoped ceria or all of the other iron containing preparations (i.e., those with x > 0.1).
Another interesting example is provided by work in Leffert’s group. Solutions of Mg(OCH3)2 in methanol (0.4 M), containing sufficient LiNO3 to obtain 0, 1, 3, and 5 wt % Li in MgO, were mixed with a water–methanol solution (0.8 M of water). The mixture was kept for 24 h at room temperature to form a wet gel. The gel was dried at 50 °C, in vacuum, for 7 h, then calcined in air for 1 h. The XRD measurements detected a Li2CO3 phase, which is hardly detectable in the 1 wt % material but clearly visible in the others. However, not all Li forms a carbonate. For the 1 wt % sample, 40% of the Li present in precursor was incorporated in MgO, presumably as a substitutional dopant. The 5 wt % sample incorporated 16% of the Li. The 1 wt % material is a fairly good catalyst for propane ODH at 650 °C, having 45% conversion of propane and 73% selectivity for a mixture of propene and ethylene. A particularly valuable aspect of this work is the analysis of the process of gel formation.
3.6 Combustion Synthesis
In this method, a suitable organic fuel is added to a saturated aqueous solution of the desired metal salts. This mixture is heated until it ignites, causing a rapid, self-sustaining combustion reaction (see Figure 1), which produces a fine, dry, powder. Patil and other research groups have carried out the synthesis of various single, doped, and mixed ceramic oxides using as fuels urea, hydrazines, glycine, methylpyrazoles, or diformylhydrazine. (100, 101) Hegde and colleagues have used combustion synthesis to prepare several doped ceria catalysts. (102, 103) One of them, Pd-doped ceria, was characterized by XPS (ESCA), XRD, and EXAFS, and no evidence of mixed phases was detected. (102) Bera et al. (104) synthesized 3 at. % Cu-doped ceria catalysts for NO reduction with NH3 or CO, using combustion synthesis from solutions of (NH4)2Ce(NO3)6, Cu(CO3)2, Cu(OH)2, and C2H6N4O2 (oxalyldihydrazide, as the fuel). Characterization using Rietveld refined XRD, EPR, XPS, and EXAFS was consistent with the presence of a doped oxide alone. Copper-doped ceria was also synthesized by Avgouropoulos et al. (105) using urea as the fuel for a nitrate-containing solution, and by Rao et al. (106) using hydrogen peroxide for fuel. The materials made by Rao’s team were characterized by XRD, EPR, and temperature programmed reduction (TPR) and, in contrast to the materials made using oxalyldihydrazide as the fuel, showed finely dispersed Cu2+ species on the surface at low copper content, but Cu2+ in the form of dimers and clusters at large Cu concentrations. It was concluded that little of the Cu2+ was in the bulk. Athawale et al. used microwave heating to initiate combustion synthesis of silver-doped lanthanum chromite catalysts, with urea as fuel. (101) Urea fuel is appealing because it contains no carbon.
3.7 Ultrasonic Spray Pyrolysis (USP)
Ultrasonic nebulization was introduced by Skrabalak and Suslik (107) who used ultrasound to produce droplets of the solution containing the desired precursors. This can be rapidly heated in a furnace (see Figure 2) to form doped oxides. Misch et al. (108) prepared, by this method, Pd-doped ceria and used it to catalyze methane partial oxidation and dry reforming. The precursor solution consisted of Ce(NO3)3·6H2O and Pd(NO3)2·2H2O dissolved in water in the appropriate molar ratios. The solution was nebulized, and the mist was carried by compressed air into a furnace held at 500 °C. The powders produced in the furnace were collected in sparged liquid traps containing 4:1 H2O/EtOH. The solvent was evaporated at 80 °C overnight. The XRD measurements indicated that Pd-doped ceria was produced. However, under reaction conditions the catalyst evolved into metallic Pd clusters supported on ceria.
3.8 Electrochemical Synthesis
This method is not commonly employed for synthesizing solid heterogeneous catalysts, but it has been used to produce doped metal–oxide photoelectrocatalysts, and different characterization methods have “proved” that doped oxides can be produced. Both cathodic and anodic depositions have been used, and the final doped oxide is formed by calcination. In an investigation of iron oxide doped with 0–0.5 at. % aluminum, Kleiman-Shwarsctein et al. deposited films from electrolytes with mixtures of iron and aluminum chloride salts using cyclic voltammetry with the applied voltage ramped. (109) A hydroxide solid film was deposited, which was calcined at 700 °C in air. X-ray diffractometry showed that the Fe2O3 films were single-phase hematite. Considerable morphological difference between the doped and undoped films was seen in SEM. A similar synthesis was performed by the same authors (110) to produce Fe2O3 doped with Mo and Cr and by Hu (111) for Fe2O3 doped with Pt. In Hu’s work, in addition to XRD, depth profiling by ion etching of the material while performing XPS showed that Pt was homogeneously distributed in the oxide.
None of these methods are guaranteed to produce doped oxides, but all of them will work if the preparation conditions are chosen with care. It seems to us that the combustion method and the ultrasonic spray pyrolysis are more likely to make a doped oxide, because the solid is formed very rapidly and there is no time for dopant segregation. In most cases, the chance of making a doped oxide is substantially increased if the dopant concentration is low. While for every system there is an optimum dopant concentration, in most cases concentrations higher than 0.3 molar fraction lead to ill-defined and inactive materials.
