# Paragraph Topic Extractor and Question Generator

You are an expert in academic writing and text analysis. Your task is to extract the main topic from a given paragraph of an academic review and then generate a single comprehensive question based on that topic. Follow these steps carefully:

1. Read the provided paragraph carefully.
2. Analyze its content to identify the main topic.
3. Formulate a concise topic statement.
4. Based on the extracted topic, create a single comprehensive question that can guide the extraction of detailed information from the paragraph.
5. Translate the question into Chinese.

Output your results in the following XML format:

```xml
<analysis>
  <original_paragraph>
    [Insert the original paragraph here]
  </original_paragraph>
  
  <topic_extraction>
    <step1_initial_thoughts>
      [Provide your initial thoughts about the paragraph's content]
    </step1_initial_thoughts>
    
    <step2_key_concepts>
      [List the key concepts or ideas present in the paragraph]
    </step2_key_concepts>
    
    <step3_topic_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the topic based on the key concepts]
    </step3_topic_formulation>
    
    <extracted_topic>
      [State the extracted topic in a clear, concise manner]
    </extracted_topic>
  </topic_extraction>

  <question_generation>
    <step1_question_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the question based on the extracted topic]
    </step1_question_formulation>
    
    <generated_question>
      <english>[Present the final version of your generated question in English]</english>
      <chinese>[Present the Chinese translation of the generated question]</chinese>
    </generated_question>
  </question_generation>
</analysis>
```

Remember to:
- Be thorough in your analysis and explanation.
- Ensure that the extracted topic accurately represents the main idea of the paragraph.
- Create a single, comprehensive question that can elicit detailed information about the topic from the paragraph.
- Use academic language appropriate for the field of study.
- Provide both English and Chinese versions of the generated question.

<file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraphs.txt"> 
<Paragraphs>
19 Ethane Oxidative Dehydrogenation to Ethylene Catalyzed by Nb-Doped NiO
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
19.1 Background Information about Nb and Its Oxides
We are interested in the oxides formed by Nb because they may allow us to guess some of the chemical properties of the Nb dopant. Niobium is a flexible atom when it combines with oxygen. It makes three stable oxides, Nb2O5, NbO2, and NbO, as well as compounds with the stoichiometry Nb3n+1O8n–2 with 5 ≤ n ≤ 8. Among these oxides, Nb2O5 has the highest energy of formation, and it is very unreactive. NbO has the lowest heat of formation (−406 kJ/mol) and is a stable oxide. It has a sodium chloride structure, just like NiO, except that 25% of the NaCl lattice sites are unoccupied; occasionally the formula Ni0.75O0.75 is used to draw attention to this fact. In binding to oxygen Nb prefers the oxidation state +5 if enough oxygen is available. However, when Nb is a substitutional dopant in another oxide, its oxidation state is likely to depend on its immediate environment. It is therefore difficult to guess a priori the oxidation state of a Nb atom that substitutes a Ni atom in the surface layer.
19.2 Computational Results on Nb-Doped NiO
Among all rocksalt oxides, NiO is most easily cleaved along the (100) plane. (159) This suggests that the (100) plane is likely to be the least reactive face of the oxide, and this is what the calculations find. Therefore, we report here only results for the Nb-doped NiO(011). The Nb dopant has five valence electrons and when it substitutes a divalent cation (such as Ni in NiO) three of its electrons that are not tied up in chemical bonds. These “unused electrons” make the dopant a strong Lewis base. According to the rules we proposed, as a result of calculations on a variety of systems, (141, 142, 145, 221, 262, 271) a high-valence dopant in an irreducible oxide will increase the binding of neighboring surface oxygen atoms to the oxide, and this will hinder oxidation by a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, which is always the case in an ODH reaction, the behavior of the system is complex. Calculations on a variety of systems show three possible scenarios.
(a) A high-valence dopant may adsorb O2 from the gas phase and it may activate it. (359) Ethane may react dissociatively with the adsorbed O2 to make an ethoxide and a hydroxyl. We rule out this mechanism for Nb-doped NiO(011) because our calculations find that the adsorption energy of O2 on top of the Nb dopant is −8.40 eV. The distance between the two oxygen atoms is much longer than any reasonable O2 bond length, and therefore the NbO2 group contains two O atoms (not a “weakened” O2 molecule). The adsorbed oxygen atoms are so strongly bound to Nb they cannot possibly be involved in the ODH reaction (Sabatier principle).
(b) Because O2 binds so strongly to Nb and the O atoms are unreactive, it seems reasonable to consider that the dopant is NbO2. This changes the formal electron counting. If we assume that the formal charge on each O adsorbed on Nb is −2, then binding two oxygen atoms from the gas phase uses four of the Nb electrons and only one is left for making bonds with the oxide. Therefore, NbO2 should be viewed as a low-valence dopant similar to an alkali or a Ag atom. We have used calculations to test this hypothesis: if NbO2 is an LVD, then its presence will lower the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation at a neighboring oxygen site. DFT calculations in our group show that the presence of the NbO2 dopant lowers the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation in the top layer of the doped NiO(011): this energy is 3.28 eV for the undoped Ni(011), and it is 2.31 or 2.67 eV for the NiO(011) doped with NbO2 (depending on the position of the removed oxygen with respect to the Nb site). This is comparable to the value of 2.65 eV we obtained when the dopant is Li, and it is typical behavior for a low-valence dopant. We also know that the presence of an LVD in the surface of an oxide lowers the energy of dissociative adsorption of an alkane (see section 9.3). Our calculations find that this is the case for ethane dissociative adsorption on NiO(011) doped with NbO2. The activation energy for breaking the C–H bond is low enough to explain why this system activates ethane. We would have suggested this mechanism for breaking of the C–H bond (the rate-limiting step in ODH), except for the next possible scenario.
(c) Nb has a high affinity for oxygen and a propensity to make compounds in which it is pentavalent. Because of this, we investigated whether in contact with a gas-phase oxygen the dopant may come out of the Ni lattice site and form an oxide cluster on top of the surface. Our calculations show that when the doped surface is exposed to oxygen, the NbO2 cluster gains energy by reacting with 1/2O2 and forming the NbO3 cluster shown in Figure 9. In this final state, there is a NbO3 cluster on the surface (bound to the oxygen atoms on the surface of NiO) and a Ni vacancy in the surface layer. This is likely to happen with other high-valence dopants whose oxides are very stable, when they substitute lower valence cations in a less stable host oxide. When doped oxides are prepared, it is common to calcine them at temperatures around 450 °C for 4 or 5 h in the presence of oxygen. It is possible that Nb atoms are mobile at these temperatures and have enough time to reach the surface, react with the gas-phase oxygen, and form Nb oxide clusters or perhaps a Ni niobate (our calculations have not explored the latter possibility). The properties of the structure shown in Figure 9 have not been adequately explored.
It is well-known (8, 9) that submonolayers of an oxide A (a generic name) supported on an oxide B (another generic name) are often better catalysts than the bulk oxide A or bulk oxide B. In an important experiment, Millet et al. (441) have prepared, by an impregnation method (see below), submonolayers of NbOx supported on NiO. The activity of this catalyst is less than that of the samples that were prepared with the intention of making doped oxides. One infers that small NbOx clusters supported on NiO are not as active as Nb-doped NiO. However, this does not rule out the presence of a Nb-rich phase in Nb-doped NiO. While attempting to prepare doped oxides, Heracleous and Lemonidou (439) found that besides a phase with NiO structure, a second phase is present that is amorphous and has an excess of Nb (determined by EDS microscopy). They believe that this phase is a precursor to the formation of NiNb2O6. Millet et al. (441) found that some Nb0.15Ni0.85O seems to be embedded in Nb2O5. Caps (440) saw regions with high Nb concentration in EDS and showed that NiNb2O6 is present. These findings agree qualitatively with the suggestion made by calculations that in the presence of oxygen some of the Nb substitutional dopant will segregate to the surface and be oxidized. The kinetics of this segregation is likely to be slow and might explain why some of the Nb-doped catalysts lose activity in time.
19.3 The Preparation of NiO and Nb-Doped NiO
Experiments have found that the catalytic activity of NiO and Nb-doped NiO depends substantially on the method of preparation. It is not clear whether such differences persist for a long time: one might think that under steady-state reaction conditions catalysts prepared differently, but having the same elemental content, are likely to evolve and end up having the same structure and surface composition.
Wu et al. (455) prepared NiO by a sol–gel method, a precipitation method, a microemulsion method, and by solid-state milling.
Heracleous and Lemonidou (438) dissolved Ni(NO3)2·6H2O and ammonium niobium oxalate in water by stirring and heating at 70 °C for 1 h. The solvent was then evaporated and the solid dried and calcined in synthetic air at 450 °C for 5 h. The pure NiO was obtained by the same procedure, in the absence of the Nb precursor.
Caps and co-workers (440) prepared NiO by three methods and showed that their sol–gel method provides the best NiO catalyst for ethane ODH, which is consistent with the results of Wu et al. (455) Therefore, they prepared the Nb-doped NiO by the same sol–gel method. In this procedure, NbCl5 was added to water, which caused the formation of a Nb2O5·nH2O precipitate. This was washed to remove the chloride. After that, the precipitate was dissolved in a warm citric acid solution, and Ni(NO3)2·6H2O was added to it. The gel was slowly dried in several steps (440) and then calcined at 450 °C for 4 h in air.
Millet et al. (441) prepared Nb-doped NiO by using the oxalate-based method developed in Lemonidou’s group (see above). (456) Three other preparations used various amounts of oxalic acid (because the precursor for Nb is an oxalate) to test whether the amount of oxalate matters. The preparation having the most oxalic acid had the highest catalytic activity, and, in what follows, we discuss only the activity of this NiO sample from Millet’s group.
19.4 Catalytic Performance of NiO for ODH of Ethane to Ethylene
There are no widely accepted methods for ranking catalysts even when we disregard some of the practical factors such as heat management, equipment cost, and separation cost. Because conversion and selectivity are very important, we compare the ODH catalysts based on the conversion of C2H6 and the yield of ethene (the percent of the converted ethane that produces ethene). Physical chemists may prefer to use conversion per unit area (which we use here occasionally) or even the elusive turnover frequency.
A comparison between the results of Millet (441) and Caps (440) is made in Table 3. In addition, we note the results of Wu et al. (455) who give only the ethylene yield but not the conversion. They found that the ethylene yield is highest for the NiO prepared by a sol–gel method (∼15%), decreases to ∼8% for the one prepared by the precipitation method, and decreases further for the one prepared by a microemulsion method (3%). The specific area of the sol–gel sample, which had the highest ethylene yield, was much smaller than the area of the other samples.
Table 3. A Comparison of Results Obtained for Ethane ODH Catalyzed by NiO and Nb-Doped NiOa
  % yield % conversion
catalyst Millet (441) Caps (440) Millet (441) Caps (440)
NiO 3.7 24 12 42
Nb0.03 15 25 22 41
Nb0.15 26 14 33 19
Nb0.20   8    
aThe temperature is 350 °C, the ethane to oxygen ratio is 1:1, and W/F = 0.6 g s/mL for Caps and 0.54 g/s mL for Millet. The subscript “x” in Nbx indicates the atomic fraction of Nb in the Nb-doped NiO catalyst.
The NiO prepared by Caps gives a substantially higher ethane conversion and ethylene yield than that prepared by Millet or Wu. The NiO prepared by Lemonidou has 80% CO2 selectivity (439) (the ethylene yield on NiO is not reported in their paper but it is likely to be the same as in Millet’s work who used the same method of preparation), so one should think of it as more of a combustion catalyst than an ODH catalyst.
This comparison shows that both conversion and selectivity in the catalytic oxidation of ethane on a NiO catalyst depend on the way in which the catalyst was prepared. The difference is both qualitative and quantitative: in one preparation, NiO is a fair catalyst for ethylene production, while in another, it combusts ethane.
19.5 Catalytic Performance of Nb-Doped NiO for Ethane ODH
In Millet’s experiments, adding a very small amount of Nb (to make Nb0.03Ni0.97O) improves dramatically both the ethane conversion and the ethylene yield as compared to the performance of NiO (see Table 3). However, such a small amount of Nb makes no difference in the experiments reported by Caps. Increasing the amount of Nb to make Nb0.15Ni0.85O increases ethane conversion and ethylene yield in the case of Millet and decreases them for the catalyst made by Caps. These are qualitative differences: in Millet’s experiments, doping with Nb improves the performance, while in Caps’s experiment it decreases it; the method of catalyst preparation is clearly important.
Lemonidou’s experiments (438) for Nb0.15Ni0.85O at T = 350 °C, C2H6/O2 = 1/1, and W/F = 0.54 g s/cm3 (the W/F is the same as Millet’s and slightly different from Caps’s 0.6 g/s cm3) give an ethylene selectivity of 81% and an ethane conversion of 35%, which corresponds to a yield of 28%. This is close to Millet’s results but different from those of Caps. Because Millet used the same method of synthesis as Lemonidou, we expect their results to be very similar.
There are some data at 400 °C that show differences between Nb0.15Ni0.85O prepared by Caps (440)and that prepared by Lemonidou. (127, 437-439) Millet did not publish data at this temperature. The conversions are 25% (Caps) and 65% (Lemonidou), and the selectivities are 74% (Caps) and 66% (Lemonidou).
19.6 NbOx Clusters Supported on NiO
Millet et al. (441) performed an important experiment, which should become standard in research on catalysis by doped oxides. Our calculations suggest that, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, Nb is likely to segregate and make niobium oxide clusters on the NiO surface. The binding energy in the XPS spectrum of Nb atom in the material will be different from that of Nb in Nb2O5 for any of the following: for NbOx supported on NiO, for the substitutional Nb dopant in the surface of NiO, or for NbO2 that substitutes a Ni atom in the surface. Therefore, the shift in the XPS spectrum cannot be used to distinguish between these three possibilities. When physical methods give ambiguous results, it is often useful to appeal to chemistry. Millet et al. (441) prepared NbOx clusters supported on NiO and tested the catalytic activity of this material for ethane ODH.
The supported NbOx clusters were prepared by impregnation of a NiO powder prepared by the oxalate method. This NiO sample (with no Nb) is active for ODH and gives 23% conversion and 39% selectivity (9% yield). A suspension of this NiO oxide powder in a solution of ammonium niobium oxalate was stirred at room temperature for an hour, then the water was evaporated at 70 °C and the powder left behind was calcined in air, for 5 h, at 450 °C. We denote the resulting compound by NbOx/NiO. This catalyzes ethylene formation with an ethane conversion of 32% and a selectivity of 40%. NbOx/NiO is more active than the NiO support, but it is less active than Nb0.15Ni0.85O, or Nb0.07Ni0.93O, which are believed to be doped oxides. This does not rule out that when doped oxides are made some NbOx is formed on the surface, but indicates that it is unlikely that all or most of the Nb is in this form.
19.7 Long-Term Stability of the Nb-Doped NiO Catalyst
Lemonidou (438) found that Nb0.15Ni0.85O is stable on stream for 20 h at 350 °C. The conversion of the doped catalyst prepared by Caps (440) drops slowly and steadily for 70 h, while selectivity increases. The change is most rapid in the first 5 h. Millet (441) performed more extensive stability studies and found that at a temperature of 380 °C the conversion of ethane on Nb0.15Ni0.85O drops from 58% to ∼35% after 325 h on stream, while selectivity increases from 67% to ∼78%. The degradation of the catalyst is not due to coking because heating the degraded catalyst to 450 °C in air, for 30 min, and then using it again as a catalyst at 380 °C, did not restore its performance. Nor is the degradation caused by coarsening becauase the area did not change substantially. One possible explanation (439) for deactivation is the formation of NiNb2O6.
19.8 The Influence of Doping and of the Method of Preparation on Surface Area per Gram
We have compared the performance of NiO and the Nb-doped NiO catalysts prepared by various methods without taking into account their specific area. It is often preferable to know the conversion per unit area rather than the conversion per gram of catalyst. The specific area of the NiO is 9.4 m2/g for Lemonidou catalyst and 90 m2/g for that of Wu. The specific areas of the other NiO preparations mentioned here are between these values. Because of this, it is important to note that the area depends strongly on the method of preparation. As we have already pointed out, these preparations have very different catalytic activity. A possible reason for this is that the smaller particles are likely to have more defects (steps, kinks, etc.), and these are chemically active.
NiO doped with Nb or Zr has a much larger specific area than undoped NiO. The specific area increases with the amount of Nb, as long as Nb concentration does not exceed 20%. For example, the area in m2/g is 16.7 for NiO, 55.9 for Ni0.9Nb0.01O, and 85.1 for Ni0.85Nb0.15O. This is often the case: a doped oxide has a substantially larger specific area than the host oxide prepared by the same method. There are however exceptions to this rule. (96)
19.9 Chemical Characterization of Nb-Doped NiO
Temperature programmed reduction with H2 shows that doping with Nb reduces the hydrogen uptake. (438, 440, 441) Temperature programmed desorption shows that less oxygen is released from the Nb-doped NiO than from the undoped NiO. These observations are consistent with the fact that Nb is a high-valence dopant that reduces the reactivity of surface oxygen and increases the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation.
19.10 Ethane ODH by NiO Doped with Li, Mg, Al, Ga, Ti, Ta, or Nb
Heracelous and Lemonidou (127) prepared NiO doped with Li, Mg, Al, Ga, Ti, and Nb. These dopants were chosen because their ionic radius is similar to that of Ni and their valence in their stable oxides varies from one to five. All doped oxides were prepared under identical conditions, and all had the same nominal dopant to Ni ratio of 0.176 (the stoichiometry is Me0.15Ni0.85O, where Me stands for the dopant). The precursors for the dopants were nitrates, and the preparation was the same as in the early work of Lemonidou. (438)
The ODH of ethane was investigated in the temperature range from 300 to 425 °C, with a W/F ratio of 0.54 g s/cm3 and a feed containing 9.1% ethane, 9.1% O2, and 81.8% He. Ethane conversion, per gram of catalyst, decreased in the order:
Here, the symbol MeNi (where Me is the dopant) stands for Me0.15Ni0.85O. According to this metric, NiO doped with Nb is the most efficient catalyst for breaking the C–H bond in ethane. Of course, it is difficult to judge the quality of a catalyst by using one simple metric. Selectivity is also of paramount importance, and we will examine this later. It seems reasonable, however, to examine ethane conversion per unit area because there are large differences in the surface areas per gram between various doped NiO catalysts. The BET measurements of the specific area give (in units of m2/g) 16.7 for NiO, 85.1 for NbNi, 7.6 for LiNi, 19.2 for MgNi, 67.8 for AlNi, 45.3 for GaNi, 18.6 for TiNi, and 78.9 for TaNi. With the exception of Li-doped NiO, all doped oxides have larger specific area than NiO. If we normalize the conversion to surface area per gram, the order of the efficiency of the catalysts for ethane activation (conversion per area) changes to
The numbers in parentheses are μg of C2H6 consumed per m2 per second.On the basis of these results, Li-doped NiO is by far the catalyst most able to break the C–H bond.
To assess the reactivity of the oxygen atoms in the surface of doped and undoped NiO, we have calculated the energy of oxygen vacancy formation in the surface layer. For NiO(011), we obtained 3.28 eV. The energies to make an oxygen vacancy in the surface layer of a doped oxide, near the dopant, are 2.65 eV for Li, 2.74 eV for Mg, 4.6 eV for Al, 4.25 eV for Ti, and 4.13 for Nb. The reliability of these numerical values is not certain, and therefore we concentrate on trends. In general, a low-valence dopant will decrease the energy of vacancy formation, and this is what we see for Li-doped NiO. Mg has the same valence as Ni, and its ionic radius is comparable to that of Ni, and we expect it to have a small effect on ΔEv, which is the case. Al, Ti, and Nb are high-valence dopants, and they increase the energy of vacancy formation. The values of these energies of oxygen-vacancy formation suggest that doping with Li and Mg will activate the oxide and it will convert more ethane than NiO. This is what the experiments found. The calculations suggest that the high-valence dopants Al, Ti, and Nb will make the doped surface less active than NiO, for the Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. However, we are left with the possibility that O2 adsorbs on the dopant and ethane reacts with it. There are no calculations regarding this possibility.
The amount of desorbed oxygen from various samples is also qualitatively consistent with the calculations. Li-doped NiO releases the largest amount of oxygen (per gram of catalyst), while the catalysts containing Al, Ga, Ti, Ta, or Nb release less (as predicted by calculations).
The XRD measurements find that all samples contain a phase with the NiO structure with slightly shifted lattice constant. This is taken to signify that all samples consist of doped NiO. However, this is not always the only phase present. Anatase is observed in Ti-doped NiO, a phase tentatively assigned to NiTa2O6 is seen in the Ta-doped NiO, and either a Nb-rich phase or a NiNb2O6 phase is seen in the Nb-doped NiO sample. It is not clear how these phases affect catalytic performance. This presents us with additional complications when we compare the behavior of the doped NiO with the results of exploratory calculations.
19.11 Ethane ODH on Doped NiO: Conclusions
This detailed examination of ethane ODH by doped NiO illustrates the difficulties encountered by both theory and experiments when studying catalysis by doped oxides. It is impossible at this time to construct realistic models of the catalytic surface, and we are limited, in both computations and experiments, to making educated guesses. However, several broad conclusions can be reached. The trends predicted by computations compare fairly well with the experimental observations. The distinction between the effect of high- and low-valence dopants, so prevalent in calculations, is observed in experiments. The computed trends in the ability of a doped oxide to break the C–H bond are in agreement with the observations and so are the trends in reducibility (whether measured by H2-TPR or oxygen thermal desorption). The strong dependence on the method of preparation is a surprise. It might appear that this provides an additional parameter in the optimization of the catalyst. However, it is not clear whether this dependence on the method of preparation is of practical importance: after several days on stream, various morphologies, generated by different methods of preparation, may evolve into the same steady-state morphology. It is therefore important, for this and other reasons, to perform long time experiments. The dependence on the method of preparation points to a shortcoming of the computations: there is practically no computational work in which surface morphology is systematically varied and its influence on the ability to break the C–H bond is studied. Such calculations are possible and should be performed.
20 Brief Concluding Remarks
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Catalysis by doped oxides is an emerging field, which is still awaiting consolidation and rationalization. The number of possible oxide–dopant pairs is large, and none has been studied exhaustively by a combination of computations and experiments. Much more work is needed before we can form a clear picture of the effects of doping and of its utility.
The characterization methods are unable to prove beyond doubt that the method of synthesis has produced a substitutionally doped oxide with the dopant imbedded in the surface layer. At this time, and for some time in the future, we have to rely on circumstantial evidence. We have no experimental methods that will tell us the morphology and the composition of the surface at an atomic level, under reaction conditions. Because of this, the models used in computations are approximate. To bridge this “model gap”, we need to perform calculations of catalysis on surfaces having a variety of “defects” to obtain an estimate of their importance. Experiments on model systems that resemble more closely the models used in the calculations, such as those developed by Freund, (10-14, 249) for example, will also be very helpful. Furthermore, it is necessary to perform experiments specifically designed to test the predicted trends, which has not been done so far.
Because of these uncertainties, one should use computations, at this time, mainly to obtain qualitative trends and design rules. The most important question is: does doping improve the catalytic activity of an oxide? With a few exceptions, both computations and experiments answer yes. In most cases, doping improved the catalytic performance, as compared to the undoped host oxide, by increasing the conversion, or the selectivity, or the area per gram of catalyst. Despite such improvements, we are not aware of any example where a deliberate doping of an oxide leads to a commercial catalyst. A second question is: Are computations helpful in our search for better doped-oxide catalysts? So far they helped us divide oxide–dopant pairs into classes based on commonality in the calculated chemical behavior. They have explained some aspects of surface chemistry on the basis of strong interaction between Lewis acids and bases. They are likely to be useful in prospecting for promising dopant–oxide pair catalysts, if it is understood that they provide probable behavior rather than absolute answers. The best we can hope, at this time, is to derive qualitative design rules that will allow us to guess a priori which doped-oxide systems are most promising catalysts for each specific reaction. The work performed so far is incomplete, fragmented, and exploratory, but the results obtained are promising and much remains to be done. There is also no reason to confine doping to the binary oxides examined here. Doped perovskites have shown interesting catalytic properties. (108, 135, 457-490) MoS2 doped with Co or Ni is an industrial catalyst for oil hydrotreating. (6, 491, 492) One can also imagine doping halide catalysts used, for example, in oxichlorination reactions, (3) or any other inorganic material that has catalytic activity (e.g., vanadates, molybdates, nitrides, carbides). Finally, one can imagine using anion doping such as replacing some oxygen in an oxide with a halogen, or sulfur, etc. Finally, we note that doping is starting to be used in electrochemistry where doped oxides and doped sulfides have been explored as electrocatalysts (493-495) and in surface photochemistry where doping can change the absorption spectrum and the catalytic properties. (54)
</Paragraphs>
</file-attachment-contents>
