<quotes>
JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS 179, 192202 (1998)

INTRODUCTION
Exchanged Zn cations increase propane conversion turnover rates, hydrogen formation rates, and selectivity to aromatics on H-ZSM5.

EXPERIMENTAL CONDITIONS
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
Na+ ions in Na-ZSM5 were replaced with NH4+ by contacting the Na-ZSM5 with a solution of 0.67 M NH4NO3 at 353 K for 10 h.

2.2. Elemental Analysis
The elemental composition of all samples was obtained by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The Zn contents of the ion-exchanged samples were 0.62, 1.07, and 1.30 wt%, which correspond to Zn/Al atomic ratios of 0.10, 0.16, and 0.19 respectively.

2.3. In Situ Zinc K-Edge X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy
X-ray absorption measurements were conducted using an in situ cell similar to that described by Clausen et al. The cell consists of a quartz capillary (0.9-mm diameter, 0.1-mm wall thickness, 10-cm length) mounted horizontally into a stainless-steel base using compression fittings with graphite ferrules.

2.4. Temperature-Programmed Reduction
Temperature-programmed reduction experiments were carried out using a Quantasorb unit modified with a programmable furnace.

2.5. Measurement of Ammonia Irreversibly Adsorbed at 383 K
Ammonia titration experiments were carried out using a temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR) unit consisting of a gas manifold unit connected to a quartz capillary cell followed by an online mass spectrometer.

2.6. Isotopic Titration of Brnsted Acid Sites with Deuterium
Isotopic titration experiments were also carried out using the TPSR unit.

3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
3.1. Effect of Zn Metal Cations on Propane Conversion Rate and Selectivity
Propane conversion turnover rates are greater on Zn/H-ZSM5 than on H-ZSM5. When Zn cations are introduced into H-ZSM5 channels, dehydrogenated products are produced with higher selectivity and the rate of formation of aromatics increases markedly.

3.2. X-ray Absorption Zn K-Edge Near-Edge Spectra
Near-edge X-ray absorption spectra at the Zn K-edge for fresh Zn/H-ZSM5 at room temperature show a sharp increase in absorbance caused by the excitation of Zn 1s electrons. The edge energy depends on the oxidation state of the absorber atom.

3.3. X-ray Absorption Extended Fine Structure (EXAFS)
EXAFS measurements at the Zn K-edge were analyzed using ZnO and Zn foil as standards to detect the presence of ZnO, ZnOZn, and ZnZn species.

3.4. Temperature-Programmed Reduction
Bulk oxide crystallites, when present, can also be detected by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR).

3.5. Transformation of Zn into Active Zn Species during High-Temperature Treatment
Structural zeolitic studies of several M2+ cations (i.e., Cu, Mg) prepared by ion exchange from aqueous solution suggest that cationic species are initially present in zeolites as (M2+OH)+.

3.6. Titration of Brnsted and Lewis Acid Sites with Ammonia
The density of Brnsted acid sites on H-ZSM5 and Zn/H-ZSM5 sample was measured by temperature-programmed desorption of preadsorbed ammonia.

3.7. Isotopic Titration of Brnsted Acid Sites with Deuterium
Because ammonia titrants interact with both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites in Zn/H-ZSM5, the isotopic exchange of D2 with surface hydrogens was used to measure the number of protons remaining after Zn exchange.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The growing demand for propylene has led to the development of new production methods, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH). PDH utilizes catalysts like Ga/H-ZSM-5 to convert propane into propylene efficiently. The understanding of Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts for PDH has evolved significantly, including the ongoing debate about active Ga species. Recent research has provided insights into the structure and location of active Ga species within the catalyst, contributing to our current knowledge of these catalysts. The structure and location of Ga species in Ga/H-ZSM-5 have been a focus of study, aiming to enhance the selectivity and efficiency of PDH processes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
对丙烯日益增长的需求推动了新生产方法的发展，尤其是丙烷脱氢（PDH）。PDH利用如Ga/H-ZSM-5这样的催化剂将丙烷高效转化为丙烯。对于Ga/H-ZSM-5催化剂在PDH中的理解已经显著进化，包括活性Ga物种的持续争议。近期的研究提供了有关催化剂中活性Ga物种结构和位置的见解，这些见解有助于我们当前对这些催化剂的知识。对Ga物种在Ga/H-ZSM-5中的结构和位置的研究是焦点，旨在提高PDH过程的选择性和效率。
