Silanol defect engineering and healing in zeolites: opportunities to fine-tune their properties and performances
Zeolites have been game-changing materials in oil refining and petrochemistry over the last 60 years and have the potential to play the same role in the emerging processes of the energy and environmental transition. Although zeolites are crystalline inorganic solids, their structures are not perfect and the presence of defect sites – mainly Brønsted acid sites and silanols – influences their thermal and chemical resistance as well as their performances in key areas such as catalysis, gas and liquid separations and ion-exchange. In this paper, we review the type of defects in zeolites and the characterization techniques used for their identification and quantification with the focus on diffraction, spectroscopic and modeling approaches. More specifically, throughout the review, we will focus on silanol (Si–OH) defects located within the micropore structure and/or on the external surface of zeolites. The main approaches applied to engineer and heal defects and their consequences on the properties and applications of zeolites in catalysis and separation processes are highlighted. Finally, the challenges and opportunities of silanol defect engineering in tuning the properties of zeolites to meet the requirements for specific applications are presented.
Izabel C. Medeiros-Costa
Izabel C. Medeiros Costa received her PhD in 2019 from Claude Bernard Lyon 1 University, France. Her thesis work on the use of hierarchical zeolites for the separation of xylenes was performed at the French Institute of Petroleum and Renewable Energies. In 2020 she joined the Laboratory of Catalysis and Spectrochemistry and the Industrial chair project as a postdoctoral researcher on the synthesis and characterization of metal containing zeolites for methane conversion. She is currently part of the R&D team of Total in Belgium.
Eddy Dib
Eddy Dib received his PhD degree in Physical Chemistry from the National Graduate School of Engineering of Montpellier, France in 2014. Since, in addition to teaching, his research interests cover the synthesis of zeolites and the understanding of their properties through the application of Solid-State Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and theoretical calculations. He is currently a Research Scientist at the Laboratory of Catalysis and Spectrochemistry (LCS), Normandy University, Caen, France.
Nikolai Nesterenko
Nikolay Nesterenko is the coordinator of the R&D program in Total focused on the conversion of natural gas and the chair of ANR-TOTAL industrial chair project dedicated to the development of new materials for natural gas upgrading. He is co-inventor of more than 100 patents, and one of the key contributors in four industrializations of new processes using zeolite materials. He is the receiver of the Total award for the best process developments in 2011 and 2013, and top 5 for Rising Stars Europe Initiative by ERTC in 2017. He was the organizer of the zeolite forum in 2018 entitled “The energy transition – a challenge for zeolites”. Currently, his interests have focused on low carbon developments in natural gas upgrading to chemicals & hydrogen, sustainability in catalysis, and electrification of chemical processes.
Jean-Pierre Dath
Jean-Pierre Dath is currently Senior Program Manager at Total S. E. where he leads research projects targeting gas value chains. Before occupying this position, he worked for more than 25 years in the field of heterogeneous catalysis applied to fine chemicals, polyolefins, refining and base chemicals. He is the co-author of nearly 40 publications and 100 patents.
Jean-Pierre Gilson
Jean-Pierre Gilson is Distinguished Professor in ENSICAEN, a University-level French engineering school in Caen (France); his research activities take place in the LCS (Laboratory for Catalysis and Spectrochemistry), a laboratory he directed for 3 terms of 4 years each. He is also an invited professor at the Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics and a foreign expert at Jilin University. He had a dual industrial (UOP, Grace, Shell) and academic career and managed during a 4 year attachment the extra-mural research of the downstream activities of Total. He has authored 100+ peer-reviewed papers and holds 40+ patent families.
Svetlana Mintova
Svetlana Mintova is the Director of Research at CNRS, LCS, Normandy University, France and Invited Professor in China University of Petroleum, Qingdao, China. The focus of her research is in the fields of porous materials and physical chemistry with expertise in the synthesis of zeolites, advanced characterizations and their applications in catalysis, separation, chemical sensors, membranes and biomedicine. She is the receiver of the Baron Axel Cronstedt award from FEZA 2014, the Donald Breck award from the IZA 2016, and Shandong International Science and Technology Cooperation award and Qingdao award in recognition of her social and research contributions, 2019. She is the Chair of the “Synthesis Commission” of the IZA and council member of the IZA, FEZA and GFZ.
1. Introduction
Zeolites are porous crystalline inorganic solids, formed by connecting tetrahedrally coordinated (T) atoms. They were initially defined as microporous aluminosilicate minerals but several elements have been steadily introduced in their framework by isomorphous substitution. Their T–O–T bonds (T = Si, Al,…) form tetrahedra and these so-called primary building units further assemble as polyhedra (secondary building units) connecting to develop periodic three-dimensional microporous crystalline structures.1,2 Theoretically, they could grow infinitely without imperfections, except for those at their external surface.
In this review, a defect is defined as a perturbation in the crystalline arrangement that will somehow break the perfect symmetry expected from the periodic association of TO4 units. While a neutral network is ideally expected in pure silica zeolites, the presence of Al3+ in a Si4+ oxide (O2−) network creates a negative charge on the framework necessarily balanced by an extra-framework positive charge. Brønsted acid sites (BAS), often referred to as bridged hydroxyls, are formed when the extra-framework positive charge is a proton bound to one of the oxygens in the Al tetrahedron [Si–O(H)–Al]. Such a “defect” is at the origin of the remarkable properties of zeolites in acid catalyzed reactions as these sites and the reactants are confined in a well-defined molecular-size environment.3
Silanols (Si–OH) are also structural defects in the internal structure or on the external surface of zeolites. The internal ones commonly result from unbalanced charges in the zeolitic framework, while the external silanols are needed to complete the valence of oxygen atoms once the crystal growth stops.4 These silanols display a weaker acid strength than the BAS and are typically constituted of hydroxyl groups.3,4 Thus, different types of silanol defects are commonly present in zeolites as outlined in Fig. 1.4 Throughout this review, we will refer to them as silanol (Si–OH) defects, although they can appear in multiple forms in zeolites.
Fig. 1 Schematic representation of different types of silanols grouped into three main categories: isolated external silanols, connectivity defects and vacancy defects. Green dotted lines indicate hydrogen bonding.
Isolated silanols are commonly observed at crystal terminations. Other defects resulting from missing one or more T–O–T bonds are also observed: geminal, vicinal and bridged silanols and also in clusters of the type [SiO−⋯HOSi].5,6 Their configurations can further vary slightly due to clustering as in silanol nests formed by the vacancy created by a missing T atom (top right corner of Fig. 1). The classic representation of silanol nests corresponds to the presence of four hydrogen-bonded Si–OH silanols due to their proximity. However, such a configuration does not appear to be stable enough and alternative configurations that consist of pairs or triads of SiO−⋯HO–Si species were considered.6,7
Defects offer an alternative to compensate a charge imbalance in the zeolite structure. Their formation results from (i) different synthetic methodologies and the nature and purity of the reagents and (ii) post-synthesis treatments of zeolites. Legacy and new syntheses as well as post-synthesis strategies were developed to overcome the most nagging drawback of zeolites, i.e. the severe transport limitations (e.g. configurational diffusion) leading sometimes to the inaccessibility of bulky molecules to active sites in catalysis or adsorption. The resulting so-called hierarchical zeolites combining connected micro-, meso- and macro-porosities invariably possess defects to variable extents.
Recent research efforts have focused on healing defects since they often adversely affect key zeolite properties like thermal and hydrothermal stability. This review will present the main approaches to engineer and heal defects including external heat treatments (calcination and steaming), alkali, transition metal and fluoride anion additions, in situ and post-synthesis silylation, defect blocking with dye-based molecules, and selective coke deposition. Significant changes in the performance of zeolites in catalysis and adsorption are observed due to the presence of silanol defects. While the presence of silanols improves the catalytic performance of zeolites in specific reactions, some undesirable effects such as coke production and, consequently, shorter catalyst lifetime are also associated with the presence of defects. Adsorption of hydrophilic molecules is facilitated by the presence of defects while separation selectivity is more often lowered. In biomedical applications, the presence of silanols is key to a controlled release of drugs and the cell/zeolite adhesion.
An overview of the advances made in the characterization of defects in zeolites is presented. We focus on diffraction techniques (e.g., X-ray diffraction) as well as on spectroscopies (e.g., UV-Vis, Infrared and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance). They are the most used and have contributed to a wealth of information on the identification, quantification and accessibility of Brønsted acid sites and silanol structural defects in zeolites. Theoretical modeling is also included as it provides added value to understand the experimental characterization results.
2. Detection of zeolite defects: main characterization approaches
As zeolitic O–H groups correspond to either Brønsted acid sites (BAS) or structural silanol defects, the characterization techniques of choice are mainly X-ray diffraction and spectroscopic techniques (UV-Vis, Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR)). We briefly outline those used to identify, localize, and quantify defects as well as Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations and refer the readers to in-depth reviews and ref. 8. The information is also summarized in Table 1.
Table 1 Characterization techniques to probe defects in zeolites
Technique Wave energy (Hz) Target Information
X-ray diffraction (XRD) 1017–1020 Crystallographic planes Lattice parameters, bond length, angles
Ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) 1015–1017 Valence electrons Coordination, oxidation state
Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) 1013–1015 Dipolar bonds Bond vibration, acidity
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) 106–108 Nuclear spins Local geometry, bonding, distances, dynamics
2.1. X-ray diffraction (XRD)
X-ray diffraction (XRD) exploits the interaction between X-rays (1017–1020 Hz), usually from CuKα, and crystal planes in a solid if any. Thus, crystalline materials are characterized by unique diffraction patterns providing structural information. This technique is still an affordable gold standard to solve zeolite structures. It is always the first method used (i) to determine the crystallinity of a zeolite, (ii) to identify the zeolite phase, (iii) to determine the unit cell parameters, (iv) to estimate the crystallite sizes and (v) to report the probable cationic sites.9 We refer to the works of Breck et al. for zeolite LTA,10 Meier for MOR,11 Olson et al. for FAU,12 Koningsveld et al. for MFI,13 and Baerlocher and McCusker for a large number of zeolites.14 The crystal structures were solved either by single-crystal or by powder XRD techniques. However, the presence of pseudo-symmetry, intergrowth and disorder leading to peak overlapping make the structure resolution of powders less straightforward than for single crystals.15 Thus, the use of Synchrotron X-ray diffraction has increased, since it allows solving some complex structures.16 Neutron and electron diffraction were also combined with XRD to increase the resolution and sensitivity in zeolite structure determination.17
Knowing that (i) the X-ray diffraction technique is based on the localization of electronic densities and (ii) aluminum (Al) and silicon (Si) have similar electronic densities, Al location in the framework is difficult to identify due to a lack of resolution especially for high Si containing materials.18 The task is harder for Brønsted acid sites (BAS) and silanols, as the small size of the hydrogen atom implies a low sensitivity. Determining defect locations by XRD is therefore not straightforward. Several attempts to localize Al atoms by exchanging the protons with big cations have been reported.19 Pinar et al.20 recently showed that the Al location in an FER zeolite can be probed by organic structure directing agents. Lo et al. and Ye et al. also showed the location of BAS in the cross-channel region in H-ZSM-521 and H-USY22 using pyridine as a probe molecule. Ordered silanols originating from silicon vacancies were found in SSZ-70 and SSZ-74 as well as in TNU-9 and IM-5 zeolites23,24 (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 Ordered silicon vacancies in the framework structure of the zeolite catalyst SSZ-70 containing isolated –SiOH groups and a nest of three Si–O–H groups in place of the three Si–O–Si linkages. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 24 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2017.
2.2. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy
Infrared is a vibrational spectroscopy based on the interaction between an electromagnetic radiation (1013 and 1015 Hz) and species with a permanent or induced dipole. This technique was extensively used to probe the insertion and location of heteroatoms in zeolite frameworks, their acidity and guest–host interactions. The high potential of FTIR was demonstrated by the routine use of various probe molecules such as CO, NO, pyridine and many others.25 Insightful correlations were established between the stretching frequencies and the Si–O and O–H distances.26 However, the relationship between Si/Al ratio, acidic strength and the stretching frequency of O–H groups was not straightforward.
The stretching vibrations of OH groups lie in the IR spectral region 3000–4000 cm−1 and their position depends on acid strength, confinement and location in the zeolite framework (Fig. 3). External and internal silanol positions overlap somewhat in the spectral region. As the characteristic stretching frequency of an OH group decreases with an increase in hydrogen bonding,27 isolated silanols appear around 3745 cm−1 while silanols with weak hydrogen bonds, such as vicinal silanols (3740–3730 cm−1) and internal silanols (3720–3710 cm−1) are clearly distinguishable. Hydroxyls in Brønsted acid sites appear between 3650 and 3600 cm−1. In the case of silanol nests, where the hydrogen bonds are the strongest, IR vibrations appear around 3500 cm−1.
Fig. 3 Characteristic stretching frequency of OH bonds in zeolites.
The quantification of silanols by IR uses the Beer–Lambert law. The molar absorption coefficient was derived from the correlation between the concentration of OH species and the area of the associated band. Although different silanols can be distinguished between 3745 and 3500 cm−1, this spectral window is not the most convenient for quantification, since the presence of hydrogen bonding produces overlap and can disturb the signal.28 As an alternative, bands in the 4200–4800 cm−1 range could be used for quantification. A home-made technique, AGIR, namely the simultaneous recording of IR spectra and weight gain/loss by thermogravimetry (TG) allowed a very precise determination of the silanol molar absorption coefficient. The area of the bands in the 4200–4800 cm−1 range together with the water loss at different temperatures due to the condensation of silanols allowed an easy quantification of the total silanols but not to distinguish the different types.
The silanol accessibility could be quantified by exchange with deuterium oxide (D2O) as the resulting Si–OD groups appear in the 2760–2700 cm−1 range. The deuteration of alcohols of various sizes by Si–OD groups highlighted the accessibility of Si–OH as a function of their confinement.28
2.3. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy
Solid-state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) exploits the interaction between atomic active nuclei (Spin ≠ 0) and magnetic fields in the 106–108 Hz radiofrequency window. This technique has provided precious structural and dynamic information in the last few decades for zeolites thanks to the anisotropic – orientation dependent – interactions.29 Although these interactions can be suppressed by the Magic Angle Spinning (MAS) technique or by multiple-pluse sequences, the information present in the broadness of the spectra may be recovered using recoupling techniques (vide infra).
The four main internal nuclear spin interactions used to extract useful information are (i) the chemical shielding representing the interaction of a spin with the surrounding electrons, (ii) the quadrupolar coupling – only for nuclei having a quadrupolar moment (I > ½) – representing the interaction of a spin with the surrounding electric field gradient (EFG), (iii) the direct spin–spin coupling (dipolar coupling through the space) and (iv) the indirect spin–spin coupling (scalar coupling through the bonds). The relative intensity of each interaction and the related information is presented in Table 2.
Table 2 Wavelengths and information extracted from the four main interactions exploited by solid-state NMR spectroscopy in zeolites
Interaction Intensity (Hz) Information
Quadrupolar 0–107 Local geometry
Dipolar 0–5.104 Distance
Shielding 0–2.104 Coordination, bond angle
Scalar 0–102 Chemical bonding
Being anisotropic, they are described by second rank Cartesian tensors characterizing their amplitude and symmetry. The related equations are well developed, and detailed information is available in the literature.30
In zeolites and related porous materials, the NMR active nuclei are numerous and include 29Si, 27Al, 17O, 14N, 1H, and 2D; their potential is described below as they are related to Brønsted Acid Sites (BAS) or silanol defects.
Silicon-29 (I = 1/2, 4.700% Natural Abundant) is the most reported nucleus in zeolites since Si is the main tetrahedral (T) atom in the framework, despite a low sensitivity due to its low natural abundance. In a landmark work, Engelhardt et al.31 showed that the 29Si isotropic chemical shift is a function of the nature and the number of T neighbors. The 29Si isotropic chemical shift increased following the trend: Si (4Si), Si (3Si, 1T), Si (2Si, 2T), Si (1Si, 3T), and Si (4T) (Fig. 4). The Qn building units were defined as SiO4−n(OT)n units. Linear correlations were established between the isotropic chemical shift and the Si–O–T angles, Si–Si distances and Si–O bond lengths. The framework Si/Al ratio can also be computed from a one-dimensional 29Si NMR spectrum using the equation
However when silanol defects are present, the resolution decreased and an overlap of the silanols and BAS peaks occurred due to T–O–T angular distributions.30 The Si/Al ratio is therefore often underestimated due to the contribution of silanol defects. However, assuming that peaks initially assigned to Si(1Al) and Si(2Al) contain a contribution of Si(OH) and Si(OH)2 species, respectively, the total amount of silanols [Si(OH) + Si(OH)2] may be estimated.
Fig. 4 Characteristic 29Si chemical shifts in zeolites.
Aluminium-27 (I = 5/2, 100% Natural Abundant) is also a nucleus of interest since it generates Brønsted acid sites in zeolite frameworks. Tetra-coordinated Al (∼60 ppm) in the framework and hexa-coordinated Al (∼0 ppm) in extra-framework (EFAl) positions are easily distinguishable. Lipmaa et al. found several correlations between the chemical shift and the Al–O distances, Al–O–Al angles etc.32 However, Al is a half integer nucleus interacting through its magnetic dipole moment with its surrounding electrons (chemical shielding) and through its electric quadrupolar moment with the Electric Field Gradient (EFG). This is a real advantage as its central transition peak contains much information but a band overlapping may occur. MQMAS pulse sequence introduced in 199533 permitted to obtain the highest resolution of the Al spectra and several attempts were made to localize the BAS using this sequence.34,35 The TRAPDOR pulse sequence was also used to probe the Al sitting in zeolites. Koller et al. used it recently to determine the 1H–27Al proximities in ZSM-5 with different Si/Al ratios to localize the BAS and assign the 1H NMR peaks to either BAS or silanols.36,37 Recently, tri-coordinated invisible Al species were identified in zeolites using trimethylphosphine oxide (TMPO) as probe molecules.38
Oxygen-17 (I = 5/2, 0.037% Natural Abundant) is a key atom in zeolites. The primary TO4 units are connected by sharing oxygen and it is the main atom that handles BAS and silanol defects. However, the number of reports dealing with the oxygen nucleus remains low because of two factors: (i) the low natural abundance and the need of enrichment and (ii) the peak overlapping due to angular distributions and different crystallographic positions. BAS were detected with 17O NMR in FAU zeolites.39,40 Ashbrook et al. also used 17O NMR to probe BAS in a wide variety of zeolites (Fig. 5).41,42 Pruski et al. distinguished between isolated and vicinal silanols using natural abundant 17O NMR combined with Dynamic Nuclear Polarization probing selectively the surface.43
Fig. 5 (a) MAS and (b) MQMAS spectra of 17O enriched H-MOR zeolites. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 42 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.
Nitrogen-14 (I = 1, 99.632% Natural Abundant) was used to determine the Al or silanol location in the as-synthesized zeolites in the presence of organic structure directing agents. However, it is an integer spin nucleus giving wide spectra because of the absence of a central transition like in 27Al and 17O. A statistical distribution of quadrupolar coupling parameters was observed due to the distribution on several sites of silanol defects in the framework of silicalite-1 and Al in ZSM-5. However, it is a very sensitive nucleus to monitor the degree of order in zeolite frameworks, Fig. 6. The spectra may be modeled to quantify the order/disorder in zeolite frameworks, as in the case of silicalite-1 synthesized in the fluoride medium.44,45
Fig. 6 Evolution of the 14N spectra with the aluminium loading in a series of as-synthesized ZSM-5 zeolites. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 45 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2017.
Proton-1 (I = 1/2, 99.984% Natural Abundant) is by far the most abundant and sensitive nucleus in NMR. Depending on the chemical shifts one can identify different hydroxyl species: isolated, internal, bridging (SiOHAl) and H-bonded silanols. The low resolution in the 1H spectra and overlapping peaks render quantification and assignment difficult in a narrow 10 ppm chemical shift range.46,47
Proton NMR is obviously advantageous when the proton concentration is low. However, with a high proton concentration, strong dipolar couplings occurred as they are related to the inter-nuclear distance and collecting well-resolved 1H NMR spectra is therefore not possible. Magic angle spinning (MAS) and several homo-nuclear decoupling sequences were developed in the last few decades to mitigate the problem but by enhancing the resolution of the 1H NMR spectra precious structural and dynamical information is lost. The so-called recoupling techniques were developed to reintroduce anisotropic interactions. Among them, the most valuable is the multiple-quantum–single-quantum (MQ–SQ) correlation methods restoring through-space dipole–dipole coupling while preserving the high spectral resolution provided by fast MAS spinning.
Dib et al. recently used 1H double-quantum single-quantum (DQ-SQ) MAS NMR to locate silanol defects in silicalite-1 synthesized with different templates.48,49 Koller et al. expanded the study to other zeolites including ZSM-12, ZSM-5, SSZ-24 and SSZ-74. Structural defect location is therefore governed by the Organic Structure Directing Agent (OSDA) used (Fig. 7).6
Fig. 7 DQ–SQ 1H NMR spectrum showing the interaction between an OSDA and the structural silanols in as-synthesized silicalite-1. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 48 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2015.
Silanol triads were found in calcined SSZ-707 and other zeolites together with hydrogen-bonded silanols and BAS using 1H double-quantum single-quantum (DQ–SQ) MAS NMR correlation and 1H{27Al} rotational echo adiabatic pulse double resonance (REAPDOR) spectroscopy.36
Deuterium-2 (I = 1, 0.011% Natural Abundant) is the second isotope of hydrogen and less studied in NMR because of its low natural abundance and its quadrupolar moment. However, when enriched with deuterium, Brønsted acid sites and silanols in RHO50 and FAU51,52 zeolites have distinct spectral features related to their framework location. 2D NMR efficiently probed the dynamics of organic molecules,53 and X and Y zeolites loaded with deuterated water at different temperatures contributed to the analysis of the peaks corresponding to BAS and silanols.54 Moreover, important information on the confinement of water molecules in zeolite cages can be collected. A recent theoretical study showed the high sensitivity of deuterium quadrupolar coupling parameters towards the O–D distance.55
2.4. UV-Vis
UV-Vis is an electronic spectroscopy that exploits the interaction of UV radiation in the 1015–1017 Hz window. This technique was mainly used to characterize Titanium (Ti) coordination in TS-1 zeolites.56 Dedececk et al. characterized BAS in several zeolites by UV-Vis57 and highlighted Al locations in various framework sites, like rings, channels or cavities and their distribution between isolated and close Al in various Al–O–(Si–O)n–Al sequences. Close Al – facing the same channel – attracted cobalt hexaquo-complex [Co2+ (H2O)6]2+ at the expense of the more isolated Al. In turn, the zeolite exchange capacity for this divalent complex was a likely indicator of close Al atoms in the zeolite structure.58
2.5. Modelling
In the last decade, “NMR crystallography” has emerged in the field of zeolites.59–62 It combines structural and crystallographic information to refine a complex structure or validate a structural model using NMR data. Zeolites were among the first candidates selected, using the NMR-derived local order information with the diffraction-derived long-range order. Computational methods, e.g., density functional theory (DFT), were often used in cluster or periodic approaches and the results used as restraints to further refine structural models or eliminate mismatches. This methodology was recently used by Alonso et al. to locate Al atoms in specific sites in the as synthesized ZSM-5. By combining dipolar-heteronuclear multiple quantum correlation (D-HMQC) between 29Si–27Al NMR and quantum chemistry calculations they reported the Al siting in the as synthesized ZSM-5 in fluoride media; this material contains a very small amount of silanol defects as shown in Fig. 8.63
Fig. 8 Correlation between computed Si and Al chemical shifts (ppm) and D-HMQC 2D NMR spectrum. [Reproduced with permission.] This figure has been reproduced from ref. 63 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2018.
The combination of FTIR and theoretical calculations also permitted to locate BAS.64,65 Chizalet et al., combined 1H NMR and IR with DFT, and proposed several types of silanols and BAS sites in ZSM-5.66 Koller et al. suggested different BAS in a series of zeolites based on specific angles and orientation needed to be Hydrogen bonded.37
3. Engineering defects in zeolites
The presence of defects in zeolites is related to the synthesis and post-synthesis treatment methods applied. The strategies explored to engineer defects in zeolites will be discussed as depicted in Fig. 9: (1) synthesis of layered zeolite structures, (2) generation of mesopores, (3) creation of defects by water intrusion and (4) formation of defects by crystal size reduction.
Fig. 9 Overview of strategies to engineer defects in zeolites.
3.1. Synthesis of layered zeolite structures
Silanol defects are intrinsically present at the termination of zeolite crystals. Layered zeolites contained significant amounts of such defects due to their high surface to bulk ratio. The layered zeolitic precursor with a MWW structure was among the first to be delaminated, producing zeolite ITQ-2.67 The stacking of the layered precursor was broken, separating the layers and forming a highly accessible house of cards structure. The ITQ-2 layers are rich in terminal silanols (Fig. 10) as indicated by a peak at −102 ppm in their 29Si NMR spectra.67
Fig. 10 Schematic representation of the layered MWW precursor (MCM-22 P) and derived structures obtained through different post-synthesis treatments. This figure has been adapted from ref. 69 with permission from John Wiley and Sons, copyright 2014.
Other post-synthesis modifications of layered MWW precursors to maximize accessibility of their active sites were reported (Fig. 10).68,69 MCM-36 was formed by pillaring a MWW precursor with silica pillars.70 The silanols were located on the silica pillars and at the remaining external surface of the zeolitic layers.71 Expansion by insertion of silicon bridges (O–Si–O) between two zeolitic layers also generated new silanols. In this case, geminal silanols (Q2) were formed by eliminating the methyl groups of the silane forming the silicon bridges.72 Some of the original silanols were healed due to their interactions with the silane.72
MCM-56 was another material made of exfoliated MWW layers. In this case, no post treatment was needed as layer exfoliation results from the intercalation of organic cations (tetraethylammouniums) between adjacent MWW layers.73 MCM-56 was therefore a disordered delaminated and highly defective structure, due to the presence of silanols on the layers and possesses more Q3 species than the tri-dimensional MCM-49 (Fig. 11).37,74
Fig. 11 29Si NMR spectra of MCM-56 and MCM-49 zeolites highlighting Q3 and Q4 species associated with the silanol defects. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 73 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2020.
MIT-1 was produced from MWW nanosheets using a bifunctional surfactant (Ada-i-16) in a one-pot synthesis.75 It was very similar to the exfoliated ITQ-2 and MCM-56 and its high external surface area suggested the presence of a substantial amount of silanols. The selective titration of the external surface sites by tributylphosphine oxide (TBPO) monitored by 31P MAS NMR indicated that the MIT-1 had three times more sites than the MCM-22, a 3D zeolite with a lower external surface.75
Other zeolites like MFI were also synthesized as nanosheets with large external surfaces.76–79 Single-unit-cell MFI nanosheets, synthesized in the presence di-quaternary ammonium-type surfactant, possess a significantly higher BET surface area compared to conventional MFI, a material likely to have many defects.79 The presence of defects in the MFI nanosheets synthesized using a mixture of tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) and a polyquaternary ammonium surfactant (referred to as C22) was assessed by 29Si MAS and {1H} 29Si CP NMR.77 All zeolites contained silanols, as evidenced by their Q3 signal in the 29Si NMR spectra. {1H} 29Si CP NMR indicated a reduction of Q2 species for the zeolite synthesized with the highest TPAOH concentration (10/12 C22/TPAOH ratio).77 The reduction of its Q2 signal intensity seemed associated with its lower mesoporous volume and external surface area.
MEL/MFI intergrowths were also used to produce single unit cell layers of pure silica zeolites, SPP (Self-Pillared Pentasil), where two organic templates (tetrabutylphosphonium and tetrabutylammonium hydroxides) promoted intergrowths.78 SPP occurred as the MEL phase grew on pre-existing MFI nanosheets, the former linking the latter. These 2 nm thick SPP nanosheets possessed 2–7 nm mesopores.78 Although no silanol characterization was reported, they should be present on this material as well. It is further expected that symmetry breaks at the edges of the MFI nanosheets and would contribute to the formation of structural defects, different from those silanols on the external surface.
Nanosheets were also produced as a result of FAU/EMT intergrowths.80–82 The propagation of the intergrowths formed a cuboctahedron made of nanosheet interpenetrations at 70.5° and 109.5° angles (Fig. 12(a)).81 As the EMT in the (111) and (11) planes cannot be perfectly connected at 70.5°, the presence of defects at these intersections was expected. A schematic representation of such a structure is presented in Fig. 12(b), although they have not been characterized in detail.81
Fig. 12 (a) Schematic representation of the branching mechanism leading to FAU/EMT intergrowth showing interpenetrating [111] and [11] sheets and possible defect locations. (b) Cuboctahedral skeletal base for the final structure presenting interpenetration at 70.5° and 109.5° angles. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 81 with permission from John Wiley and Sons, copyright 2014.
3.2. Generation of mesopores
The addition of mesoporosity to the native zeolite microporosity also produced defects in zeolites. The organic directing agent 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl]hexadecyldimethylammonium chloride used to synthesize MFI zeolite generated 3–8 nm mesopores.83 Lee et al.,84 functionalized a parent MFI zeolite and its hierarchical derivatives with alkoxysilanes, and reported higher functionalization on the latter zeolite due to a significantly higher amount of silanols. The silanol density of the hierarchical MFI zeolite was about twice higher than that of mesoporous SBA-15. Still regarding the MFI synthesis, using low temperature (100 °C) and well-defined Si/Al (198), the propagation of defects was favored.85 These defects in turn create intracrystalline mesopores, an attractive alternative to produce low-cost and environmentally friendly hierarchical zeolites.
The mordenite (MOR) zeolite synthesis was also modified by the addition of dual organic structure directing agents containing cetyltrimetylammonium and tetrapropylamonium ions to generate mesoporosity.86 It is already known, by HREM and selected area electron diffraction, that the MOR structure contains several structural defects, such as dislocations, faults and intergrowths with dachiardite.87 The disturbance generated by the organic templates during crystallization and a two-stage temperature treatment promoted the propagation of such defects and the creation of intracrystalline mesopores.86 Polyacrylamide (PAM) and n-butylamine molecules were also used to produce mesoporous MOR zeolites.88 An interesting effect is the increased Al incorporation in the MOR structure by the addition of both templates as observed by 29Si NMR and temperature programmed NH3 desorption.88 In addition, in the OH region of their IR spectra, a signal at 3734 cm−1 indicated the presence of silanols on the outer surface. Two other signals at 3606 cm−1 and 3545 cm−1 were identified as BAS located in the 8MR side-pockets and the 12MR channels, respectively. The contribution of BAS and silanols on the external surface was greater for the samples synthesized in the presence of templates.88
The use of charged organic structure directing agents (OSDA) is one of the best-known factors responsible for the occurrence of defects in zeolites. Hunger et al.89 proposed a model where Si–O− species compensate the ionic charge of OSDA in the as-synthesized zeolites. They stated that the presence of a Si–O− group requires another analogous neighboring group, whose oxygen must be linked to an inorganic cation (such as Na+), initially present in the reaction media (Fig. 13). 29Si NMR spectroscopy showed that after Na+ exchanged by a proton, new non-acid silanols (Si–OH) appeared and their concentration doubled compared to the calcined zeolite.
Fig. 13 Role of tertaproplyammonium (TPA+) used as an organic structural directing agent (OSDA) on the formation of silanols in zeolites.
Other treatments to generate mesopores based on a biased demetallation of the framework by caustic (preferential desilication) and acid (dealumination) leaching also produced defects. In the last decade, desilication by alkaline etching has been rediscovered and widely studied, in particular on MFI type zeolite.90–94 Si and Al were removed from framework positions, but as silicate species are more soluble than aluminate species, the net result was an extensive desilication of the framework and a far more limited dealumination. Moreover, the Al dislodged from the framework was mostly retained on the zeolite and produced Lewis acidity; an optional acid treatment was necessary to remove this extra-framework Al, often detrimental in some 1D zeolites (TON, MTW,…) as it blocked the native microporosity.95,96 Its impact was best investigated by IR in the OH region.92 After desilication, silanol nests (3490 cm−1) disappeared in the parent MFI while the population of isolated silanols (3740 cm−1) increased. This suggests that desilication started at the crystal boundaries and/or at silanol nests and further propagated to create mesoporosity where isolated silanols were required to terminate the crystals. Other hypotheses also suggested that the disappearance of silanol nests may be related to metal healing with Al atoms that could be eventually available.92
Acid leaching of zeolites is also a biased demetallation, i.e. Al was selectively removed from the framework and mostly washed away therefore increasing the overall and framework Si/Al ratios of the materials.97–99 After dealumination of ZSM-5 with HCl, silanols were formed and observed by 29Si NMR. This allowed, for instance, a subsequent inclusion of Ti in the framework.99
Steaming is also widely used for dealumination. This procedure has been industrially applied in the production of ultra-stable zeolite Y (USY) for decades,100 widely used in FCC and hydrocracking of heavy crude fractions (atmospheric and vacuum gas oils or residues). It is also used for dealumination of ZSM-5 zeolite.101,102 An increase in external silanols was observed as a function of steaming time101 while the number of Brønsted acid sites decreased. In addition, a slight increase in silanol nests was observed by 1H NMR; the spectra contain a peak at 2.5 ± 0.4 ppm as shown in red in Fig. 14. This suggests that the structure reorganized rapidly to heal these defects.101
Fig. 14 1H NMR spectra of ZSM-5 after steaming at different time intervals. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 101 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2012.
A related method to dealuminate ZSM-5 was performed under hot water treatment between 250 °C and 450 °C.103 The behavior was similar to steaming and silanol formation was observed (Fig. 15). The proposed mechanism indicated that the changes start to be observed at the external surface of the crystals, followed by Al–O bond hydrolysis and subsequent deposition of extra-framework Al (EFAl). The modifications undergone by the zeolites followed by infrared spectroscopic analysis indicated a reduction of Brønsted sites with an increasing temperature of treatment while the EFAl increased. Importantly, the (non-acid) silanols were not impacted by such hot water treatment. This may indicate that silanol nests, created by Al removal, were rapidly healed by available and mobile Si atoms103 in the steam treatment of zeolites.101
Fig. 15 Effect of hot water treatment on silanol formation in zeolites. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 103 with permission from Royal Society of Chemistry, copyright 2019.
An interesting strategy to create mesopores with tunable dimensions in Y zeolite was proposed by Garcia-Martinez et al.104 The method consisted of a partial dissolution of the zeolite in an alkali media and its recrystallization around surfactant micelles leading to the creation of well-defined mesopores. For high aluminum content zeolites, a dealumination step by acid washing had to be included prior to treatment with the surfactant. As defects were expected to appear during such treatments, their fate during different stages of the treatment was monitored by infrared spectroscopy in the OH region (3000–4000 cm−1), Fig. 16. An important reduction of bridging hydroxyls was first observed as Al was removed during acid washing, and terminal silanols (3740 cm−1) appeared on the external surface of the zeolite (Fig. 16(b)). Their concentration increasing after treatment with the surfactant (Fig. 16(c)) was indicative of the presence of the mesopores. However, after heat treatment some silanols were removed by condensation between neighboring groups (Fig. 16(d)), but their number was superior to those on the parent Y zeolite (Fig. 16(a)).
Fig. 16 Infrared spectra of Y zeolites treated with NaOH and recrystallized in the presence of CTAB: (a) parent zeolite, (b) after dealumination with citric acid, (c) after treatment with CTAB and NaOH and (d) after calcination and NH4+ exchange. Effect of hot water treatment on silanol formation in zeolites. This figure has been adapted from ref. 104 with permission from Royal Society of Chemistry, copyright 2012.
3.3. Creation of defects by water intrusion
Water intrusion at high pressures also created defects in zeolites.105,106 The method was applied on a defect-free silicalite-1 synthesized in fluoride media.106 Isolated silanols, external silanols and silanol nests were created in the pure hydrophobic zeolite after the first water intrusion cycle. The mechanism to create such silanols by breaking siloxane bridges is highlighted in Fig. 17. The silanol defects created in a defect free silicalite-1 (fluoride synthesis) modified by high pressure water intrusion were however lower than observed on a synthesis in alkaline media.106
Fig. 17 Silanol formation in highly hydrophobic silicalite-1 synthesized in fluoride media during water intrusion. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 106 with permission from Royal Society of Chemistry, copyright 2010.
A high pressure water intrusion post-synthesis treatment was also reported for the ITQ-7 structure.107 A significant loss of water in the temperature range of 450–650 °C was observed by TG on a sample after a high pressure water intrusion cycle, attributed to silanol dehydroxylation formed during water intrusion.107 The silanols were originated from siloxane breaking, Fig. 17. This was further supported by 29Si NMR showing the emergence of a Q3 peak and a decreased Q4 peak resolution after the water intrusion. After a subsequent calcination, the Q3 signal disappeared and the Q4 resolution was improved, by annealing of such silanols.107 The creation of additional defects was also observed in the ITQ-4 zeolite after water intrusion.1081H NMR highlighted an increase of the 2.2 ppm peak on the zeolite subjected to water intrusion. This peak appeared in the window of isolated and geminal silanols. Molecular simulation indicated that neighboring silanols and silanol nests could be produced during water intrusion in the ITQ-4 zeolite.109
3.4. Formation of defects by reduction of crystal size
As for the layered materials described above, small zeolite crystals, whatever their preparation route, should contain such defects, as their external surface area becomes important. A linear correlation between the external surface of aggregated nanocrystals and the amount of external silanols (IR spectroscopy) was obtained as highlighted in Fig. 18.110,139
Fig. 18 Linear correlation between external silanols (IR spectroscopy) and external surface area obtained (N2 physisorption. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 110 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2019.
The silica sources used for the synthesis of ZSM-5 played an important role in the resulting crystals with variable particle sizes.111 Fumed silica generated cubic 55 nm crystals, while tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) and colloidal silica produced 100 nm intergrowths. Although the above zeolite crystals were all in the micrometer range, the small crystallites observed may be an indication that the silica source could be responsible, in part at least, for the presence of silanols.111–113 A mixture of silicon sources (50% tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) and 50% colloidal silica) in the preparation of silicalite-1 membranes yielded a higher degree of intergrowth and less thick self-supported layers.113
Impurities in the silica sources, such as Al, Fe, Ca and Mg, affected the synthesis of NaX zeolite as in their presence, crystal size decreased from 100 μm to about 20 μm.114 Such a decrease in crystal size was associated with the presence of Al impurities around 200 ppm in the silica source and only a few dozen ppm for other impurities.
The combined use of organic and inorganic structure directing agents in the synthesis of ZSM-5 was also studied.115 For instance, a combination of cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) and tetrapropylammonium bromide (TPABr) with different alkali metal hydroxides affected crystal size and morphology; the source of silica seemed again to play an important role. The crystals synthesized with tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) were three times greater than those with colloidal silica (Ludox AS-30). The CTAB–Na combination appeared the most effective to produce small crystals. The alkali cation concentration in the synthesis was also reported to favor the formation of silanol nests in pure silica MFI zeolite (silicalite-1).5
The crystallization of an alkali metal (Na+, K+, Rb+) chloride gel leading to faujasite was also shown to play a role in the crystal sizes, i.e. the defect concentration.116 Other methodologies generating nanocrystals are also available.117–120 Some used metal-amine complexes as co-templates,121 or a precise control of synthesis parameters such as time, temperature, gel composition and addition of seeds.122,123 Reviews on the synthesis of nanozeolites are already available.124–126
The silanization of protozeolitic units to synthesize zeolites with controlled hydrophilicity was developed and extensively studied by Serrano and colleagues.127,128 They used silanization agents to cover the surface of nano-nuclei formed in the initial stages of a hydrothermal synthesis and prevented these protozeolitic units from growing. Subsequent crystallization occurred around the silanization and intracrystalline mesopores appeared after removal of the organic templates by calcination. The usual structural defects were formed during this last step.
Growth modifiers were also used in zeolite synthesis to regulate crystal size. Such molecules selectively bind to a specific crystal face and modify its growth. For instance, Polyethylenimine (PEIM) generated 133 nm SSZ-13 crystals, much smaller than a conventional synthesis.129 On the other hand, Poly (diallyldimethylammonium chloride) (PDDAC) addition in the synthesis of SSZ-13 increased the crystal size to 23 μm, against 2.4 μm for crystals obtained through a conventional synthesis methodology. A combination of both PEIM and PDDAC yielded zeolites with tunable characteristics.129
4. Healing defects in zeolites
Several techniques are available to heal the defects generated in zeolites. Some of the most promising and recurring methodologies on defect healing will be addressed below, as summarized in Fig. 19.
Fig. 19 Overview of strategies employed to heal zeolite defects.
4.1. Heat treatment
Heat treatment (calcination) healed silanols and also induced structural changes in zeolitic materials. The calcination of a MWW precursor (PMCM-22) generated the 3D zeolite (MCM-22) by topotactic condensation of silanols at the zeolitic layer terminations.130 Their microporous features were maintained and an independent pore system was formed by creation of 12 MR super-cavities.131
EMM-10P is another MWW layered structure precursor, but has a more disordered configuration of misaligned MWW layers.132 The EMP-10 3D zeolite was obtained by the calcination of the precursor, and 1H NMR indicated the presence of silanols, in addition to BAS (Fig. 20). The amount of silanols was higher (0.73 mole g−1) than on the MCM-22 zeolite (0.46 mmol g−1),133 not presenting layer misalignment. Another example of silanol condensation upon calcination of layered precursors was the transformation of CIT-10 in the RTH structure upon calcination.134 Other known zeolites, FER,135 SOD,136 and MTF137 were also derived from layered precursors.
Fig. 20 Schematic representation of the calcination of the layered precursors MCM-22P and EMM-10P and their silanol condensation. On the right, the 1H MAS NMR spectrum of calcined EMM-10 zeolite is presented, with enhanced contribution of silanols due to layers misalignment. This figure has been adapted from ref. 132 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2011.
The effect of calcination (heat treatment) on the healing of silanol nests in faujasite zeolite was investigated using infrared spectroscopy.138 By increasing the treatment temperature, a progressive condensation of silanol nests was followed by IR. When the temperature reached 600 °C, the silanol nests were completely healed, while the external silanols were not affected. External silanols were probably isolated, avoiding then condensation with neighboring silanols. IR spectroscopy was also used by Bordiga et al.139 to investigate the effect of calcination temperature on silanols in a silicalite-1. They observed that the condensation of silanols begins preferentially in those groups with stronger hydrogen bonds, as schematically presented in Fig. 21(a). With the increase in temperature (500 °C), the formation of new peaks between 950 and 850 cm−1 in the IR spectra was attributed to the appearance of doubly bridged structures, formed by the condensation of vicinal silanol, as shown in Fig. 21(b).139
Fig. 21 (a) A model for silanol condensation creating Si–O–Si bridges and (b) isolated silanols is presented. (c) A model representing the doubly bridged structure formation.
Forni et al.140 followed the evolution of silanols (terminal and H-bonded such as nests and bridging) as a function of calcination temperature on high silica MFI zeolites of different crystal sizes (2.5–70 μm) by {1H} CP 29Si NMR. The effect of pH during cation exchange to form H-MFI was investigated as well. No clear trend between crystal size and silanol distribution appeared, but calcination at 450 °C and ion exchange in a basic medium, favored a higher concentration of H-bonded silanols.140
In addition to calcination, other direct and post synthesis treatments can also heal defects.85,141,142 Steam was shown to be effective to cure silicalite-1 defects.141 Furthermore, by varying the time of treatment, it was possible to control the extent of defect healing.141 The temperature of crystallization during the synthesis of zeolites also seemed to affect the amount of defects produced. In the case of ZSM-5 zeolite, a structure rich in defects could be obtained under hydrothermal synthesis at 100 °C. However, for an equivalent crystallization time, if the temperature was increased to 160 °C, the defects were cured.85 Following the same pattern, the silicalite-1 crystallized at 180 °C presented a reduced amount of defects compared to a synthesis performed at 150 °C.141,143
4.2. Radical-assisted approach, addition of alkali metals and fluoride ions
Recently, hydroxyl radicals (OH*) showed their potential to heal zeolite defects.144,145 OH* radicals, introduced during synthesis by chemical and physical methods, accelerated zeolite crystallization and favored the formation of high Si/Al zeolites by promoting the polymerization of silicate species. The OH* radical-assisted route also repaired silanol defects by Si–O–Si condensation.
Alkaline cations combined with calcination were also a relevant procedure to heal defects. By raising the amount of Na+ it was possible to improve defect annealing during calcination, as shown from better resolved NMR spectra.5 Furthermore, the calcination of samples containing F− ions resulted in well resolved spectra, even better when compared to the scenario where alkali metals were present.5,146 This result suggested that the F− is a better defect healer than the alkali metals. The presence of F− in the synthesis gel had already been explored widely and always resulted in zeolites with no or rare connectivity defects.147–150 The effect of the F− ions was even more striking when compared to the preparation of the same zeolite in an OH− medium.150 The presence of F− ions in the reaction medium allowed the total neutrality (or almost) of the positive charge introduced by the organic structure directing agents, which drastically reduced the formation of Si–O− and therefore Si–OH.149,150 Most of the time, F− ions were introduced into the synthesis through the use of HF as a mineralizing agent, but a recent study also pointed out the efficiency of other fluoride sources in reducing defects in zeolites.151 The addition of ammonium fluoride (NH4F) to a synthesis gel employing tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) as an organic directing agent was reported to be responsible for reducing silanol nests in ZSM-5 zeolite. The reduction of silanol nests seemed to decrease with the increase in the F/Si ratios of zeolites.151 Some post-treatments proposing the use of F− ions were also very straightforward for healing of silanol nest defects.152–154 Promising results were obtained upon the post-treatment of defective zeolites with an aqueous mixture of NH4F and tetraethylammonium hydroxide.154 Elimination of silanol nest defects and high thermal stability of the treated zeolites were achieved. The treatment was very effective in the case of high silica zeolites, while the low silica zeolites presented thermal stability similar to the parent zeolites. According to the proposed mechanism of defect healing (Fig. 22), silicon atoms migrated from some zone of the crystals in order to heal silanol nests. The silicon migration was then responsible for the formation of internal voids in the structure. Besides, the tetraethylammonium hydroxide molecule was found to play an important role in the stabilization of the zeolitic structure during the treatment, as it acted as a pore filling agent.
Fig. 22 Proposed mechanism for the healing of defects in zeolites and concomitant formation of intraparticle voids. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 154 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.
4.3. Reaction with silane-based molecules
A study carried out on pure silica MFI showed that in addition to silylation, the use of a basic pH during an ion exchange process contributed to the reduction of defects.155 Several defects in a zeolite BEA were healed by means of a silylation process using a trimethylchlorosilane (TMS) agent.156 The transformations that occurred during the treatment with the silane molecule are schematized in Fig. 23(a). Initially, the silane molecule interacted with the zeolite silanol groups, through condensation and subsequent HCl was released, forming a type of structure that was called “Sprimary”. Next, the loss of the organic molecules (TMS) was observed through successive CH4 releases. The elimination of the methyl groups from the trimethylchlorosilane molecule allowed the formation of other Si–O–Si bonds involving the Si initially present in the TMS and the Si in close silanol defects. These two factors combined were therefore responsible for the formation of the so called “Secondary” and “Sterciary” structures until the complete healing of a nest-like defect was achieved. The {1H}CP 29Si NMR spectra (Fig. 23(b)) indicated that even at low quantities of a silane molecule, a significant reduction in Q2 and Q3 silanol groups was observed. It was also important to note that for new Si–O–Si bonds to be formed, the silanols originally present in the zeolite had to be in close proximity and favored orientation. Otherwise, as for isolated silanols in the external surface, the creation of Si–O–Si bridges with other silanols was not possible.156 These findings indicated that in this case, the silylation was more efficient for silanol nests. In addition, the accumulation of intermediate structures, such as those presented in Fig. 23, due to interactions with the silane molecule, could cause a decrease in the pore volume of the zeolite.
Fig. 23 (a) Step-by-step representation of the process of silanol nest healing in BEA zeolite by means of sylilation with trimethylchlorosilane (TMS). The chemical shifts where each structure is observed are indicated, as well as the losses of molecules taking place in each step; (b) {1H}CP 29Si NMR spectra of BEA zeolite before (defect form) and after sylilation (less defects) with different quantities of TMS. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 156 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2016.
A functionalization with methyltrimethoxysilane was used for the production of spin-on zeolite films for application in microelectronics.157,158 These films must have a hydrophobic character necessary to ensure good electrical performance. To do so, the methyltrimethoxysilane molecules were inserted in the reaction medium so that the Si–OH groups originated from the utilization of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) alone are replaced by Si–CH3, which presents hydrophobic character.157,158
4.4. Blocking defects
The blocking of defects in an SSZ-13 zeolite membrane was promoted through a post treatment with a dye-based molecule (fluorescein sodium salt).159 Such a molecule presents an ideal size that made it possible to access the defects, and at the same time prevented their entry into the zeolite pores. In this way, the defects were selectively blocked, without producing side effects such as compromising functional porosity of the zeolite. Furthermore, increasing the amount of dye-based molecule in the post-treatment solution favored the curing of a greater amount of defects.159 Defects in the zeolite membrane were also blocked by coking, promoting the connection between Si atoms in the defect walls, which were originally linked to OHs (silanols).160 More specifically, silanols in the defects were expected to react with iso-propanol, creating Si–O–C3H7 groups through dehydration. Posteriorly, the defects were plugged by means of mild coking, forming Si–O–R, as represented in Fig. 24. The coking reaction for the blocking of defects proved to be highly efficient. Moreover, at least 90% of the zeolite pores were preserved by applying such method.160
Fig. 24 Defect blocking mechanism promoted by coking in zeolite membranes.
4.5. Metal incorporation
Another strategy that has been considered to cure silanol defects in zeolites was based on the incorporation of different heteroatoms within the defect sites. Taramasso et al. were the first to accomplish the isomorphous substitution of Si with Ti in the silicalite-1 (MFI) framework, and this led to the discovery of titanium-silicalite-1 (TS-1) used as an oxidation catalyst.161 The incorporation of heteroatoms in the zeolite framework was extended to other elements e.g. Ga, V and B.162 The role of silanols in the incorporation of such elements was emphasized by using a dealuminated zeolite containing silanol groups that were found to react with vanadium complexes and allowed the incorporation of high amounts of V atoms.163
The use of a W precursor (sodium tungstate, Na2WO4) in the one-pot synthesis of MFI type zeolite was able to promote the formation of defect-free zeolite crystals.164 Comparing the zeolite products synthesized in the absence and presence of heteroatoms (W, V, Mo, etc.), it was found that the metals occupied the defective silanol sites. The IR analysis indicated that silanol nests and isolated silanols were present in the as-made Si-MFI, while the presence of both was suppressed in the as-made tungsten containing zeolite (W-MFI). Another confirmation of silanol healing through the insertion of W was provided through 29Si NMR analysis (Fig. 25). The zeolite resulting from the synthesis employing W did not present silanols (Q2 and Q3) and displayed a highly resolved Q4 signal, which was indicative of a few defects. Accordingly, {1H}CP 29Si NMR analysis did not indicate the presence of Q3 or Q2 silanols in W-MFI.164 A direct synthesis applying Mo in the precursor suspensions was also shown to be effective in healing defects of MFI zeolite. For comparison pure silica MFI zeolite synthesized in fluoride media was added (sample F-MFI, spectra in green, Fig. 25). The Mo was reported to be inserted in the structure mainly occupying defective sites like silanol nests.165 Likewise, T-vacant silanol groups in ZSM-5 obtained through dealumination were healed by the subsequent inclusion of Ti in the structure, which seemed to occupy such positions.99 It was also shown that the use of an appropriate quantity of tin(iv) chloride pentahydrate during the synthesis of MFI nanosheets promoted the integration of Sn in tetrahedral coordination.166 However, the hydrophilic character was still present in Sn-MFI nanosheets, due to the presence of silanols at the termination of the nanosheets. Considering the information above, one can suggest that metals have a preference in occupying vacant sites, such as silanol nests. As a result, a less effective curing of external isolated silanols was observed in comparison to silanol nests.
Fig. 25 29Si NMR spectra of the as-synthesized Si-MFI (a), as-synthesized W-MFI (b), and calcined F-MFI (c) zeolites. Inset: The {1H}CP 29Si NMR spectra of Si-MFI (blue) and W-MFI (red) and F-MFI (green).
Recently, the healing of defects in an Al containing zeolite, more specifically ZSM-5, was accomplished through a hydrothermal post-synthesis treatment using sodium molybdate (Na2MoO4). Defect healing through hydrothermal treatment with Mo was compared to Mo impregnation in ZSM-5 zeolite. 29Si NMR analyses indicated that defects in ZSM-5 zeolite were healed thanks to the isomorphic substitution of Mo (during hydrothermal post-treatment), while through simple Mo impregnation the zeolite presented lots of defects. Furthermore, due to the curing of defects, the ZMS-5 zeolite containing Mo in the framework displayed excellent stability after catalytic tests and hydrothermal treatment.167
Alkali metals certainly played an important role in the introduction of other metals in zeolites. Some of the works presented here considered the use of precursors containing sodium, such as Na2WO4 and Na2MoO4.164,165,167 Furthermore, the influence of potassium, as an impurity incorporated through the use of an organic template tetrapropylammonium hidroxide (TPAOH) source, was explored by Corma in the synthesis of Pt-MFI.168 Interestingly, the amount of silanols in nests (∼3500 cm−1) was nonexistent in the sample containing traces of potassium (K–Pt-MFI), while a considerable amount of such silanos was observed in potassium-free zeolite (Pt-MFI). Furthermore, the authors mentioned that the silanol groups in the presence of K+ would actually be transformed into –O–K+ species, which facilitated interactions with Pt cations and favored the formation of –O–Pt species.
Throughout the last two sections, the methods affecting the defects in zeolites have been presented. The main methods addressed earlier to engineer and heal defects in zeolites are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3 Methods used for engineering and healing of defects in zeolites
Method Comments Zeolite
Engineering defects in zeolites
Synthesis of layered structures Layered zeolites and materials derived from these structures through pillarization, delamination and others present large amounts of silanols. Nanosheets synthesized with amphiphilic surfactant and via intergrowth contain a great amount of silanols MWW,67,68,70,72–75 MFI,76–79 FAU80–82
Generation of mesopores The creation of mesopores in zeolites associated with the use of organic molecules favored the propagation of defects in the structure. Removing of organic molecules resulted in the formation of mesopores and induced silanols on the surface of the mesopores. Demetalation through acidic and basic treatments and steaming used in the production of mesopores created defects MFI,83–85,90–94,97–99,101–103 MOR,86–88 FAU100,104
Water intrusion The intrusion of water at high pressures effectively broke siloxane bridges and created silanols in zeolites MFI,106 ISV,107 IFR108,109
Reduction of crystals size Reducing the size of the zeolite crystals increased the amount of silanols at the termination of the crystals MFI,111,113,115,117–120 FAU,114,116 CHA,129 EDI,121 EMT,122 BEA123
Healing defects in zeolites
Heat treatment Calcination promoted the condensation of silanols through topotactic condensation in layered zeolites. Vicinal silanols or H-bonded silanols in nests could also be cured by calcination or steam treatment, while isolated silanols seemed resistant to heat treatments. The high temperature hydrothermal treatment reduced silanol defects MFI5,85,139–141,143 MWW,130–133 RTH,134 FER,135 SOD,136 MTF,137 FAU138
Alkali metals and F− ions addition The addition of alkali metals and F-ions in the synthesis of precursor mixtures showed satisfactory effects in the reduction of silanols. Post-treatments using NH4F were also promising in reducing defect sites MFI,5,146,148,151–154 ISV,147 CFI,150 BEA,154 MOR153,154
Silane-based molecules addition The use of silane-based molecules directly in the synthesis gel or even for post-synthesis silylation proved to be effective in reducing silanols MFI,155 BEA,156 MFI(low-k film)157,158
Blocking of defects Silanol defects could be blocked through the use of dye-based molecules. The selective production of mild coke in silanols also promoted the disappearance of silanols CHA,159 MFI160
Metals incorporation The insertion of transition metals in the zeolite framework occurred especially in sites containing silanols. The curing of silanol nests justified the isomorphic substitution of metals MFI99,164–168
5. Impact of defects on zeolite applications: challenges and opportunities
As defects can be created, controlled and removed, they clearly belong to the toolbox of “Zeolite Crystal Engineering” to design materials fit for purpose in a wide variety of applications. The examples discussed in the following paragraph highlight the advantages and disadvantages of zeolite defects in catalysis, separation and biomedical applications.
As zeolitic silanols a have weak or moderate acidity, they can contribute to some reactions, e.g. selectivity, where strong acid sites are not required or are even detrimental. The hydrophilicity of zeolitic silanols is also an asset in some reactions. Of course, the presence of silanols brings also problems as they tend to trap heavy hydrocarbons (“coke”) leading to catalyst deactivation and severe regeneration conditions when coke is trapped inside the microporosity.
Silanol nests in silicalite-1 displayed a positive impact on both conversion and selectivity in the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to ε-caprolactam.169 Increasing the concentration of silanol nests in HZSM-5 resulted in a more homogeneous distribution of ZnSnPt metal particles deposited by impregnation.170 In addition, an appropriate distribution of the ZnSnPt Lewis sites, located in these silanol nests, was reported to favor the improvement in propane dehydrogenation.170 In a recent theoretical work, the silanol groups in an SBA-15 material were identified as the activation sites in the reaction of acetone to enol-acetone.171 In the production of propene from propan-2-ol on silicalite-1, silanol nests were the only possible active sites converting up to 60% of the alcohol. Such a high conversion in the absence of aluminum was attributed to the presence of Brønsted sites in silicalite-1. The reaction scheme is outlined in Fig. 26.172
Fig. 26 Schematic representation of the H-bonded silanol complexes and its role in the conversion of propan-2-ol.
This may imply that different types of silanols (e.g., H-bonded as in nests and isolated silanols on the external surface) would display different catalytic activities. The Beckmann rearrangement of labeled 15N-cyclohexanone oxime to 15N-ε-caprolactam was evaluated on a defective silicalite-1 by means of 15N NMR showing that silanol defects were active sites for this reaction.173 Moreover, by comparing the activity of silicalite-1 by using 15N-cyclohexanone oxime (free access to internal sites) and 15N-cyclododecanone oxime (bulk and cannot access internal sites) as reagents, it was noticed that the internal H-bonded silanols were more active and more selective compared to external silanols.173 Studies have also indicated that external silanols belonging to crystalline structures have an acidic character more important than the silanols in amorphous silica.174 An enhanced acidity was observed in the first case where silanols present in ferrierite and ZSM-5 zeolite were able to react with C8-olefins as proton donors, contrary to silanols in amorphous silica that presented inert behavior under similar temperature (∼−55 °C). Such difference in the activity observed for the silanols in the different materials was certainly caused by the tension in the configuration of silanol groups when these were part of crystalline structures, such as ferrierite and ZSM-5. In contrast, silanols in the amorphous silica were described as occupying their most stable configuration, being thus less reactive.174
Some results also pointed to a synergistic effect between silanols in the vicinity of other active sites. The silanol nests present in a defective silicalite-1 were found to provide acidity for ethylenediamine (EDA) conversion; meanwhile, this acidity could not ensure alone a high conversion.175,176 In the case of the MFI zeolite containing Ti (TS-1), silanol groups in the vicinity of Ti sites were pointed out as the ones responsible by the EDA condensation, rather than the Lewis acid sites from Ti(v). The higher acidity of silanols in TS-1 compared to silicalite-1 was related to an electronic effect or structural deformation generated by the Ti atom, as in Fig. 27(a). The latter was responsible for reducing the strength of the neighboring SiO–H bond, which led to an easier release of the proton and thus enhanced acidity.176
Fig. 27 Silanol defects adjacent to (a) Ti sites in TS-1 zeolite and (b) Sn sites in Sn-SPP and its implication on ethylenediamine condensation and fructose etherification, respectively. Figure (a) has been reproduced from ref. 176 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2009. Figure (b) has been reproduced from ref. 177 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2018.
An Sn-SPP catalyst, consisting of silanol rich MFI nanosheets, was active in both glucose isomerization and fructose etherification. On the other hand, an Sn-BEA with fewer defects did not catalyze the second reaction. According to theoretical studies, the presence of silanols in the vicinity of the Sn sites in the Sn-SPP could be responsible for the stabilization of the intermediate product, enabling fructose etherification (Fig. 27(b)). Since silanols in Sn-BEA were more spaced and distant from the active sites, the reaction was not favored.177
In several applications, the hydrophilicity provided by silanols is a critical parameter. A high density of internal silanols was found to decrease the rate of glucose isomerization on Ti-Beta and Sn-Beta zeolites. The slower rate constants observed were explained by differences in transition state stability. Due to their hydrophilic character, silanols present in the zeolites were able to stabilize a network of water molecules. This water promoted the solvation of transition states, which hindered degrees of freedom, resulting in entropic penalties.178,179 On the other hand, the stabilization of water networks on silanol nests had an opposite effect in the alkene epoxidation reaction.180 In the presence of silanol defects (zeolite with hydrophilic structure), the rate and selectivity of epoxidation increased compared to a defect-free zeolite. An entropic gain was favored by the epoxidation transition states, as they disrupted hydrogen bonds between water clusters and stabilizing silanol groups (Fig. 28).180
Fig. 28 Representation of water clusters stabilized by silanol groups and the entropic gain caused by the disruption of the silanol–water interaction, due to the formation of epoxidation transition states. This figure has been reproduced from ref. 180 with permission from American Chemical Society, copyright 2019.
The hydrophilic character of Sn-MFI nanosheets was pointed out as a possible parameter hindering its activity in the Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of cyclic ketones.166 When the humidity was decreased during the reaction, a better performance of the catalyst was observed in terms of efficiency and number of moles converted per tin site per hour. In an attempt to eliminate the silanols and thus the hydrophilic nature of the catalyst, the surface of the nanosheets was then silylated with triethoxymethylsilane. However, the silylation process was found to block the active sites. This study revealed the importance of understanding defects in zeolitic structures, as well as the search for alternative passivation methods toward controlling the defect sites.
The supplementary acidity generated by silanols is often considered as responsible for the formation of coke and deactivation of catalysts. In situ IR study allowed a correlation to be drawn where the formation of coke during xylene isomerization led to a consumption of the bands related to silanol groups.181,182 The presence of silanol defects in the ZSM-5 zeolite used in the synthesis of trioxane (TOX) from formaldehyde was the cause for the low selectivity and faster deactivation of the zeolite catalyst, compared to a catalyst with fewer defects.151 In addition, selectivity for TOX was increased as the amount of silanol groups decreased. The amount of coke was also lower in the zeolites containing a lower amount of silanols.151
The comparison of two zeolites, the sigma-1 and ZSM-58, in the conversion of methanol to olefin allowed the effect of silanol defects to be identified.183 Both zeolites displayed similar morphology and acidity, but sigma-1 had larger amounts of defects, which were scarce in ZSM-58 zeolite. The presence of silanol nests in sigma-1 proved to be responsible for the rapid formation of coke and deactivation of the catalyst, thus indicating the consequences that defects can trigger in catalysis. In addition, a moderate desilication treatment performed in the presence of NaOH and CTAB was reported to be efficient in the removal of silanol nest defects in sigma-1. This treatment promoted an increase in the lifetime of the sigma-1, easy recovery and catalytic performance close to the ZSM-58.183
Comparable studies on methanol to hydrocarbon conversion carried out using a ZSM-5 zeolite synthesized in both fluoride and basic medium indicated a similar conclusion where the presence of defects was responsible for a faster deactivation of the catalyst.184,185 The presence of internal silanols in the zeolite synthesized in basic medium was found to be responsible for a more accelerated deactivation of the catalyst. UV-Raman analysis provided evidence that the deactivation of the sample synthesized in basic medium was related to the formation of molecular coke, deposited in the internal defects of the structure. The presence of coke in the internal microporosity hindered reagent diffusion, which contributed to a reduction of the catalyst performance.185 The presence of mesopores, which facilitated the diffusion of coke precursor molecules, was found to reduce the deposition of coke in the structure of ZSM-5 during n-heptane aromatization.186 The creation of mesopores combined with silanol defect healing proved to be very effective in reducing the catalyst deactivation rate.186 Despite the remarkable effect of mesopores, the annealing of silanols was reported to be even more effective in reducing the formation of coke. Such findings confirmed that coke precursor molecules were also formed in the internal silanols.186
Silicalite-1 films, derived from two different syntheses in fluoride and basic media with different amounts of defects, were tested for butanol adsorption.187 An enhanced adsorption capacity was observed for the zeolite synthesized in a basic medium, due to the possibility of butanol adsorption in silanol defect sites or even interaction through hydrogen bonds with water molecules, previously adsorbed in these silanols. On the other hand, a tenfold superior butanol/water selectivity was observed for the sample synthesized in a fluoride medium, due to the smaller amount of silanol defects.187
Defect annealing in ZSM-5 zeolite favored an increase in hexane adsorption capacity, in addition to a slight decrease in methane self-diffusion coefficient.142 Furthermore, an enhanced mobility of adsorbed benzene in ZSM-5 zeolite with a high density of defects was observed, certainly due to the greater flexibility of the structure afforded by the presence of defects. On the other hand, the water adsorption capacity was significantly superior in the defective zeolite, but the self-diffusion coefficient doubled after the defects were healed. Both behaviors observed for water adsorption and diffusion were related to the strong interaction of water molecules with the silanol defects.142
The adsorption of C2–C4 polyols was also found to increase with the amount of defects in silicalite-1. More specifically, propylene glycol adsorption was enhanced by a factor of 20 for silicalite-1 with the highest amount of defects (8.5 Si–OH/u.c.), compared to a defect-free silicalite-1.141 A high adsorption capacity was also observed when investigating CO2 adsorption in defective ZSM-58 and silicalite-1 zeolites.188 With respect to ZSM-58, an increase in CO2 adsorption linked to the presence of silanols was justified by the fact that such defects provided better access to smaller cavities in the structure. Regarding silicalite-1, the CO2 adsorption capacity was higher for samples containing larger amounts of silanols. However, the adsorption gain was not proportional to the amount of silanols, which reinforces the hypothesis that CO2 was not necessarily adsorbed in these silanols, but it was rather a consequence of the extra space created by the defects present in the structure.188
The blockage of the structural defects by water molecules was advantageous for CO2 separation using a defective SSZ-13 zeolite membrane under wet conditions159,189 The healing of such defects resulted in a significant improvement of CO2/N2 and CO2/CH4 separation under dry conditions.159 The reduction of internal and external defects in silicalite-1 also seemed to improve the selectivity in butanol/water separation.190 Although tests in binary mixture water/butanol were not performed, the adsorption tests carried out individually for water and butanol indicated the highest affinity for the latter.190
The interaction between silanols and adsorbate molecules was also investigated in the case of adsorption of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) on a high silica faujasite zeolite. The study indicated that hydrogen bonds were formed between the isolated external and internal silanols and the MTBE molecules, while the interaction with silanol nests was negligible. In addition, interactions with isolated silanols were found to result in the highest retention strength between the zeolite and the adsorbate.191
The interference of the defects goes beyond the issues with selectivity and they are also related to the creation of diffusion barriers. The interaction between surface silanols and adsorbates such as methane was shown to be an important limiter of the diffusion of molecules, causing diffusion barriers at the level of the surface of the crystals. Studies also point out that this resistance effect should be more important for small crystals, with a greater proportion of external surface silanols.192
The presence of silanols, among other characteristics, makes zeolites suitable for use in drug release applications based on their sorption behavior. The silanol groups in zeolites were used to make the connection between the surface of the zeolites and the drug through hydrogen bonds.193 The presence of silanol groups on the surface of hierarchical zeolites, as well as ordered mesoporous materials, proved to be important in reducing the kinetics of drug release.194 A study pointed out that the stronger the interactions between the silanol groups present on the surface of the material and the drug, the more promising the material was.194 The presence of silanol defects in zeolites was also straightforward for other biomedical applications such as cancer treatment, since these silanols were the key for the interaction between the zeolite surface and cancer cells.195 Furthermore, thanks to this characteristic of silanols, allowing adherence with cells, zeolite membranes have been successfully used as a support for cell growth.196 The silanol groups also allowed the functionalization of the zeolite surface with groups that guaranteed a good interaction with bacteria cells. This type of functionalization improved the bactericidal activity on Ag+ exchanged Y zeolite.197 The application of zeolites in the medical field has also been extended to the study of bone implants. ZSM-5/hydroxyapatite composites were used as a support for the growth of hydroxyapatite itself, which was used as a bone implant. Silanol groups in the zeolite were responsible for the formation of an apatite layer, which promoted the formation of a bond between the implant and the bone.198,199 Following the same trend, the presence of high amounts of silanols on the surface of the ZSM-5 nanozeolite in the Ag-ZSM-5 matrix was pointed out as responsible for an accentuated formation of hydroxyapatite.200
The effect of silanol defects on zeolite performance in catalysis, sorption and medical applications reported are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4 Effect of silanol defects in zeolites on catalysis and adsorption processes
Zeolites Application Comments Ref.
Catalysis
Silicalite-1 Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to ε-Caprolactam Internal H-bonded silanols were more active and selective than external silanols 169 and 173
Silicalite-1 Conversion of propan-2-ol to propylene Silanol nests (Brønsted sites) increased conversion 172
Silicalite-1 ZSM-5 Methane dehydroaromatization (MDA) Healing of silanol defects provided an ultra-stable single site metallic catalyst with improved stability and low coke production 164, 165 and 167
ZSM-5 BETA Xylene isomerization Silanols were responsible for coking and deactivation of catalysts 181 and 182
ZSM-5 Synthesis of trioxane (TOX) from formaldehyde Silanols caused low selectivity and faster deactivation 151
ZSM-5 n-Heptane aromatization Creation of mesopores combined with healing of silanols reduced catalyst deactivation 186
ZSM-5 Conversion of methanol to hydrocarbons Defects responsible for fast deactivation due to coke deposited on internal defects 184 and 185
TS-1, Sn-MFI Silicalite-1 Ethylenediamine (EDA) conversion A synergy between silanols in the vicinity of Ti active sites was observed 175 and 176
ZnSnPt-HZSM-5 Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) Silanol nests promoted homogeneous distribution of metals 170
Sn-BEA, Sn-SPP Glucose isomerization and fructose etherification Silanols in the vicinity of Sn responsible for stabilization of the intermediate product and fructose etherification 177
Sn-BEA Sugar isomerization High internal silanol defects decreased the rate of sugar isomerization 178
Ti-BEA Alkenes epoxidation reaction Stabilization of water networks over silanol nests enhanced the rate of epoxidation and selectivity 180
Sn-MFI Baeyer–Villiger oxidation reaction Terminal silanols hindered activity 166
Sigma-1, ZSM-58 Methanol to olefin Silanol nests responsible for rapid coke formation and deactivation 183
SBA-15 Acetone to enol-acetone Silanols were active sites in the reaction of acetone to enol-acetone 171
Adsorption and separation
Silicalite-1 C2–C4 polyols adsorption Adsorption enhanced with increasing defects. 141
Silicalite-1 Butanol adsorption Enhanced adsorption capacity and decreased butanol/water selectivity due to silanols 187 and 190
Butanol/water separation Reduction of internal and external defects improved selectivity in butanol/water separation
Si-LTA Methane adsorption Surface silanols as a diffusion barrier for methane 192
ZSM-5 Hexane adsorption Low defect content increased adsorption and decreased methane self-diffusion coefficient 142
ZSM-58 Silicalite-1 CO2 adsorption High sorption capacity in the presence of silanol defects. Defects provided better access and extra space in the structure 188
SSZ-13 CO2/N2 and CO2/CH4 separation Healing structural defects by water improved CO2/N2 and CO2/CH4 separation. 159 and 189
High silica FAU Methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) adsorption Isolated silanols provided high retention strength for MTBE, while silanol nests had negligible effect 191
ZSM-5/Beta Drug delivery Kinetics of drug release reduced by silanols 193 and 194
ZSM-5/hydroxyapatite Biomedical application Silanols improved interactions between the zeolite surface and cancer cells 195, 196 and 198–200
Silanols improved implant and bone interactions
FAU with Ag+ Anti-bactericidal application Silanols improved anti-bactericidal activity 197
The main advantages and disadvantages of silanols in zeolites are schematically presented in Fig. 29. The presence of silanols can boost zeolite catalytic and adsorption efficiency while being very important in biomedical applications. However, silanols can also trigger some issues, such as coking, stability loss and low selectivity. In our group, the metal healing technique was developed, allowing healing of the silanol defects and at the same time a metallic site was introduced in the structure.164,165,167 Therefore, silanol defects also contribute to a gain in versatility of zeolites, since they enable the insertion of different T-atoms in the zeolitic framework. Furthermore, the metal healing also allowed the production of zeolites with high stability and with a low tendency for coke production, which overcomes the limitations of the presence of defects in zeolites.167
Fig. 29 Summary of the main advantages and disadvantages of silanol defects in zeolites.
6. Conclusions and outlook
The exact mechanism of formation and healing of zeolite defects is not yet established, but they are required to compensate unbalanced charges in the zeolitic structure. A defect-free network in pure silica would be almost useless in many applications. Introduction of Al3+, or any T3+ cations in the framework position, generates some of the most useful properties in zeolites: (i) in catalysis bridged hydroxyls ([Si–O(H)–Al]) are BAS catalyzing a myriad of industrially relevant reactions; (ii) any other cation in the ([Si–O(X)–Al] (X = Na+, K+, ½ Mg++, ½Ca++, ⅓La+++, ⅓Ce+++,…) leads to other catalytic applications, and selective adsorption. Other defects with lower acidity are located at crystal edges, on external surfaces, or in microporosity. Silanols (Si–OH) are observed at crystal terminations, while connectivity defects (geminal, vicinal, bridged and cluster types) occur when one or more T–O–T bonds are missing in the zeolite framework structures.
The main techniques used to characterize defects in zeolites are X-ray diffraction, UV-Vis, FTIR and NMR and DFT. The best strategy to describe zeolite defects is their combination as each one highlights a specific feature such as dynamics, atomic, and structural. Emerging and powerful new TEM methodologies are now available to locate hydrogen atoms and their further development will most probably add rich information on the structure of isolated or clustered hydrogen groups.201
While hierarchical zeolites, albeit used already in their first industrial applications in the early 1960's, have been studied extensively in the last decade to promote faster molecular traffic in zeolites by lowering diffusion limitations, the concomitant production of defects has not yet received the attention as it deserves.
We presented several direct synthesis approaches and post-synthesis treatments to create defects (layered zeolites, reduction of crystal size, creation of mesopores) and highlighted the associated generation of defects. Their presence is either beneficial or detrimental in catalysis for instance. Different methodologies to heal such defects are presented. In some cases, as in metal healing, defects act as ports of entry for novel isomorphous substitution (Mo, W, V,…) producing new active sites in zeolites.
Defects in zeolites need further exploration, explanation and exploitation as they belong to the “Zeolite Crystal Engineering” toolbox to design the new catalysts and adsorbents required in the energy transition and in applications in emerging fields (biomedical, sensors, nanotechnology).
Abbreviations
Zeolite codes and material type
BEA
Beta
CHA
Chabazite
CFI
California Institute of Technology – five
CIT-10
California Institute of Technology – ten
EDI
Edingtonite
EMT
Elf (or Ecole Supérieure) Mulhouse Chimie – two
FAU
Faujasite
FER
Ferrierite
IFR
Instituto de Tecnologia Quimica Valencia – four
ISV
Instituto de Tecnologia Quimica Valencia – seven
ITQ-2
Instituto de Tecnologia Quimica Valencia – two
ITQ-4
Instituto de Tecnologia Quimica Valencia – four
MWW
Mobil Composition of Matter-twenty-two
MCM-22
Mobil Composition of Matter –twenty-two
MCM-36
Mobil Composition of Matter – thirty-six
MCM-49
Mobil Composition of Matter – forty-nine
MCM-56
Mobil Composition of Matter – fifty-six
MEL
Zeolite Socony Mobil – eleven
MFI
Zeolite Mobil five
MIT-1
Massachusetts Institute of Technology – one
MOR
Mordenite
MTF
Mobil Composition of Matter – thirty-five
MTW
Zeolite Socony Mobil – twelve
RTH
Ruhr University Bochum – thirteen
SBA-15
Santa Barbara Amorphous-15
silicalite-1
Pure silica zeolite whose framework type is MFI
SOD
Sodalite
SPP
Self-Pillared Pentasil
SSZ-13
Standard Oil Synthetic Zeolite – thirteen
TON
Theta-1 (one)
TS-1
Titanosilicate whose framework type is MFI
X
X zeolite, whose framework type is faujasite (Si/Al ∼ 1–1.5)
Y (USY)
Y and ultrastable Y zeolite, whose framework type is faujasite (Si/Al > 1.5)
ZSM-5
Zeolite Socony Mobil- five
ZSM-58
Zeolite Socony Mobil- fifty-eight
Chemical formulas
CH4
Methane
CO2
Carbon dioxide
N2
Nitrogen
NaOH
Sodium hidroxide
Na2MoO4
Sodium molybdate
Na2WO4
Sodium tungstate
NH3
Ammonia
NH4F
Ammonium fluoride
Characterization techniques
DFT
Density functional theory
FTIR
Fourier transform infrared
HREM
High-resolution episcopic microscopy
IR
Infrared
NMR
Nuclear magnetic resonance
TGA
Thermal gravimetric analysis
UV-Vis
Ultraviolet – visible
XRD
X-ray diffraction
Others
BAS
Brønsted acid sites
CTAB
Cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide
C22
Polyquaternary ammonium surfactant
EDA
Ethylenediamine
EFAl
Extra framework aluminum
MTBE
Methyl tert-butyl ether
OSDA
Organic structure directing agent
PAM
Polyacrylamide
PDDAC
Poly-diallyldimethylammonium chloride
PEIM
Polyethylenimine
Si–OH
Silanol
[Si–O(H)–Al]
Brønsted acid sites
TBPO
Tributylphosphine oxide
TEOS
Tetraethyl orthosilicate
TMS
Trimethylchlorosilane
T–O–T
Bond between oxygen and two atoms in tetrahedron position
TOX
Trioxane
TPABr/TPAOH
Tetrapropylammonium bromide/tetrapropylammonium hydroxide
Author contributions
All authors contributed to this paper. ICMC and ED contributed equally to the writing and design of figures.
Conflicts of interest
There are no conflicts to declare.
Acknowledgements
This research was supported by TOTAL and the Industrial Chair ANR-TOTAL “NanoClean Energy”.
References
E. M. Flanigen Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis , J. C. J. H. van Bekkum, E. M. Flanigen and P. A. Jacobs, Elsevier Science B.V., 2001, pp. 11–35 Search PubMed .
C. B. Lynne and B. McCusker , Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis , A. C. ČejkaHerman van Bekkum, Elsevier, 2007, pp. 13–37 Search PubMed .
M. Boronat and A. Corma , Catal. Lett., 2015, 145 , 162 —172 CrossRef CAS .
K. Hadjiivanov Identification and Characterization of Surface Hydroxyl Groups by Infrared Spectroscopy , Elsevier Inc., 2014, Search PubMed .
J. M. Chezeau , L. Delmotte , J. L. Guth and Z. Gabelica , Zeolites, 1991, 11 , 598 —606 CrossRef CAS .
G. Brunklaus , H. Koller and S. I. Zones , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 1 —6 CrossRef PubMed .
C. Schroeder , C. Mück-lichtenfeld , L. Xu , N. A. Grosso , A. Okrut , C. Chen , S. I. Zones , A. Katz , M. Ryan and H. Koller , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59 , 10939 —10943 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
H. G. Karge , M. Hunger and H. K. Beyer , Catalysis and Zeolites , Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1999, pp. 198–326 Search PubMed .
B. T. W. Lo , L. Ye and S. C. E. Tsang , Chem, 2018, 4 , 1778 —1808 CrossRef CAS .
T. B. Reed and D. W. Breck , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1956, 78 , 5972 —5977 CrossRef CAS .
W. M. Meier Z. Kristallogr. New Cryst. Struct., 1961, 115 , 439 —450 CrossRef CAS .
D. H. Olson and E. Dempsey , J. Catal., 1969, 13 , 221 —231 CrossRef CAS .
H. van Koningsveld , H. van Bekkum and J. C. Jansen , Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Sci., 1987, 43 , 127 —132 CrossRef .
C. Baerlocher , L. B. McCusker and D. H. Olson , Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types, 6th edn , 2007, Search PubMed .
J. Čejka , A. Corma and S. Zones , Zeolites and Catalysis: Synthesis, Reactions and Applications , Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 2010, Search PubMed .
S. J. L. B. Robert and E. Dinnebier , Powder Diffraction: Theory and Practice , Royal Society of Chemistry, 2008, Search PubMed .
L. B. McCusker and C. Baerlocher , Z. Kristallogr., 2013, 228 , 1 —10 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Yokomori and S. Idaka , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 1999, 28 , 405 —413 CrossRef CAS .
B. F. Mentzen J. Phys. Chem. C, 2007, 111 , 18932 —18941 CrossRef CAS .
A. B. Pinar , L. Gómez-Hortigüela , L. B. McCusker and J. Pérez-Pariente , Chem. Mater., 2013, 25 , 3654 —3661 CrossRef CAS .
B. T. W. Lo , L. Ye , J. Qu , J. Sun , J. Zheng , D. Kong , C. A. Murray , C. C. Tang and S. C. E. Tsang , Angew. Chem., 2016, 128 , 6085 —6088 CrossRef .
L. Ye , I. Teixeira , B. T. W. Lo , P. Zhao and S. C. E. Tsang , Chem. Commun., 2017, 53 , 9725 —9728 RSC .
C. Baerlocher , D. A. N. Xie , L. B. M. C. Cusker , S. Hwang , I. Y. Chan , K. Ong , A. W. Burton and S. I. Zones , Nat. Mater., 2008, 7 , 631 —635 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Smeets , Z. J. Berkson , D. Xie , S. I. Zones , W. Wan , X. Zou , M. F. Hsieh , B. F. Chmelka , L. B. McCusker and C. Baerlocher , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139 , 16803 —16812 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Bordiga , C. Lamberti , F. Bonino , A. Travert and F. Thibault-Starzyk , Chem. Soc. Rev., 2015, 44 , 7262 —7341 RSC .
E. Brunner , H. Pfeifer and H. G. Karge , Z. Phys. Chem., 1992, 176 , 173 —183 CrossRef CAS .
A. Erigoni , S. H. Newland , G. Paul , L. Marchese , R. Raja and E. Gianotti , ChemCatChem, 2016, 8 , 3161 —3169 CrossRef CAS .
J. P. Gallas , J. M. Goupil , A. Vimont , J. C. Lavalley , B. Gil , J. P. Gilson and O. Miserque , Langmuir, 2009, 25 , 5825 —5834 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
D. D. Laws , H.-M. L. Bitter and A. Jerschow , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2002, 41 , 3096 —3129 CrossRef CAS .
H. Koller and M. Weiß , Top. Curr. Chem., 2012, 306 , 189 —228 CrossRef CAS .
G. Engelhardt Trends Anal. Chem., 1989, 8 , 343 —347 CrossRef CAS .
E. Lippmaa , A. Samoson and M. Mägi , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1986, 108 , 1730 —1735 CrossRef CAS .
C. Fernandez and M. Pruski , Top. Curr. Chem., 2012, 306 , 119 —188 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. J. Dědeček , S. Sklenak , C. Li , B. Wichterlová , V. Gábová , J. Brus , M. Sierka and J. Sauer , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2009, 113 , 1447 —1458 CrossRef .
O. H. Han , C.-S. Kim and S. B. Hong , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2002, 41 , 469 —472 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
C. Schroeder , V. Siozios , M. Hunger , M. R. Hansen and H. Koller , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2020, 124 , 23380 —23386 CrossRef CAS .
C. Schroeder , V. Siozios , C. Mück-Lichtenfeld , M. Hunger , M. R. Hansen and H. Koller , Chem. Mater., 2020, 32 , 1564 —1574 CrossRef CAS .
S. Xin , Q. Wang , J. Xu , Y. Chu , P. Wang , N. Feng , G. Qi , J. Trébosc , O. Lafon , W. Fan and F. Deng , Chem. Sci., 2019, 10 , 10159 —10169 RSC .
L. Peng , Y. Liu , N. Kim , J. E. Readman and C. P. Grey , Nat. Mater., 2005, 4 , 216 —219 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
H. Huo , L. Peng , Z. Gan and C. P. Grey , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2012, 134 , 9708 —9720 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
G. P. M. Bignami , D. M. Dawson , V. R. Seymour , P. S. Wheatley , R. E. Morris and S. E. Ashbrook , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139 , 5140 —5148 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. M. Pugh , P. A. Wright , D. J. Law , N. Thompson and S. E. Ashbrook , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 900 —906 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
F. A. Perras , U. Chaudhary , I. I. Slowing and M. Pruski , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2016, 120 , 11535 —11544 CrossRef CAS .
E. Dib , T. Mineva , P. Gaveau and B. Alonso , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013, 15 , 18349 —18352 RSC .
E. Dib , T. Mineva , P. Gaveau , E. Véron , V. Sarou-Kanian , F. Fayon and B. Alonso , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2017, 121 , 15831 —15841 CrossRef CAS .
V. M. Mastikhin , I. L. Mudrakovsky and A. V. Nosov , Prog. Nucl. Magn. Reson. Spectrosc., 1991, 23 , 259 —299 CrossRef CAS .
A. A. Gabrienko , I. G. Danilova , S. S. Arzumanov , L. V. Pirutko , D. Freude and A. G. Stepanov , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2018, 122 , 25386 —25395 CrossRef CAS .
E. Dib , J. Grand , S. Mintova and C. Fernandez , Chem. Mater., 2015, 27 , 7577 —7579 CrossRef CAS .
E. Dib , J. Grand , A. Gedeon , S. Mintova and C. Fernandez , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2021, 315 , 110899 CrossRef CAS .
A. J. Vega and Z. Luz , J. Phys. Chem., 2002, 91 , 365 —373 CrossRef .
J. M. Kobe , T. J. Gluszak , J. A. Dumesic and T. W. Root , J. Phys. Chem., 2002, 99 , 5485 —5491 CrossRef .
T. J. Gluszak , D. T. Chen , S. B. Sharma , J. A. Dumesic and T. W. Root , Chem. Phys. Lett., 1992, 190 , 36 —41 CrossRef CAS .
P. S. Sidhu , J. Bell , G. H. Penner and K. R. Jeffrey , Can. J. Chem., 1996, 74 , 1784 —1794 CrossRef CAS .
J. Hunger , I. A. Beta , H. Böhlig , C. Ling , H. Jobic and B. Hunger , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 110 , 342 —353 CrossRef PubMed .
P. Błoński , A. Birczyński , Z. T. Lalowicz , J. Datka and Z. Łodziana , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2015, 119 , 19548 —19557 CrossRef .
G. Li , X. Wang , X. Guo , S. Liu , Q. Zhao , X. Bao and X. Lin , Mater. Chem. Phys., 2001, 71 , 195 —201 CrossRef CAS .
J. Dědeček and B. Wichterlová , J. Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103 , 1462 —1476 CrossRef .
J. Dědeček , Z. Sobalík and B. Wichterlová , Catal. Rev. - Sci. Eng., 2012, 54 , 135 —223 CrossRef .
D. H. Brouwer J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 6306 —6307 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
D. H. Brouwer and G. D. Enright , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 3095 —3105 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Cadars , D. H. Brouwer and B. F. Chmelka , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2009, 11 , 1825 —1837 RSC .
C. Martineau , S. Vial , D. Barth , F. Quessette and F. Taulelle , Solid State Nucl. Magn. Reson., 2015, 65 , 84 —88 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
E. Dib , T. Mineva , E. Veron , V. Sarou-Kanian , F. Fayon and B. Alonso , J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2018, 9 , 19 —24 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
G. Sastre , V. Fornes and A. Corma , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2002, 106 , 701 —708 CrossRef CAS .
A. J. Jones and E. Iglesia , ACS Catal., 2015, 5 , 5741 —5755 CrossRef CAS .
L. Treps , C. Demaret , D. Wisser , B. Harbuzaru , A. Méthivier , E. Guillon , D. V. Benedis , A. Gomez , T. De Bruin , M. Rivallan , L. Catita , A. Lesage and C. Chizallet , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2021, 125 , 2163 —2181 CrossRef CAS .
A. Corma , V. Fornes , S. B. Pergher , T. L. M. Maesen and J. G. Buglass , Nature, 1998, 396 , 353 —356 CrossRef CAS .
W. J. Roth , P. Nachtigall , R. E. Morris and C. Jir , Chem. Rev., 2014, 114 , 4807 —4837 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. Tsapatsis AIChE J., 2014, 60 , 2374 —2381 CrossRef CAS .
W. J. Roth , C. T. Kresge , J. C. Vartuli , A. S. Lenowicz and A. S. Fung , Catal. Microporous Mater., 1995, 94 , 301 —308 CrossRef CAS .
Y. J. He , G. S. Nivarthy , F. Eder , K. Seshan and J. A. Lercher , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 1998, 25 , 207 —224 CrossRef CAS .
P. Wu , J. Ruan , L. Wang , L. Wu , Y. Wang , Y. Liu , W. Fan , M. He , O. Terasaki and T. Tatsumi , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 8178 —8187 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Jiang , Y. Gong , X. Meng , L. Zhang , Y. Zhai , L. Meng , M. Materials , Y. Gong , X. Meng , L. Zhang , Y. Zhai , S. Shang and L. Meng , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2020, 302 , 110245 CrossRef CAS .
S. L. Lawton , A. S. Fung , G. J. Kennedy , L. B. Alemany , C. D. Chang , G. H. Hatzikos , D. N. Lissy , M. K. Rubin , H.-K. C. Timken , S. Steuernagel and D. E. Woessner , J. Phys. Chem., 1996, 100 , 3788 —3798 CrossRef CAS .
H. Y. Luo , V. K. Michaelis , S. Hodges , R. G. Griffin and Y. Roman-Leshkov , Chem. Sci., 2015, 6 , 6320 —6324 RSC .
Y. Zhao , Z. Ye , H. Zhang , Y. Zhang and Y. Tang , Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2019, 58 , 13174 —13181 CrossRef CAS .
L. Emdadi and D. Liu , J. Mater. Chem. A, 2014, 2 , 13388 —13397 RSC .
D. Xu , G. R. Swindlehurst , H. Wu , D. H. Olson , X. Zhang and M. Tsapatsis , Adv. Funct. Mater., 2014, 24 , 201 —208 CrossRef CAS .
M. Choi , K. Na , J. Kim , Y. Sakamoto , O. Terasaki and R. Ryoo , Nature, 2009, 461 , 246 —249 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Inayat , I. Knoke , E. Spiecker and W. Schwieger , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2012, 51 , 1962 —1965 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. Khaleel , A. J. Wagner , K. A. Mkhoyan and M. Tsapatsis , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2014, 53 , 9456 —9461 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Inayat , C. Schneider and W. Schwieger , Chem. Commun., 2015, 51 , 279 —281 RSC .
M. Choi , H. S. Cho , R. Srivastava , C. Venkatesan , D. H. Choi and R. Ryoo , Nat. Mater., 2006, 5 , 718 —723 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
D. H. Lee , M. Choi , B. W. Yu and R. Ryoo , Chem. Commun., 2009, 74 —76 RSC .
B. Peng , H. Zou , L. He , P. Wang , Z. Shi , L. Zhu , R. Wang and Z. Zhang , CrystEngComm, 2017, 19 , 7088 —7094 RSC .
Y. Jin , Y. Li , S. Zhao , Z. Lv , Q. Wang , X. Liu and L. Wang , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2012, 147 , 259 —266 CrossRef .
S. G. Song Mater. Res., 1999, 14 , 2616 —2620 CrossRef CAS .
H. Sheng , W. Qian , H. Zhang , P. Zhao , H. Ma and W. Ying , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2020, 295 , 1387 —1811 CrossRef .
M. Hunger , D. Freude , H. Pfeifer and W. Schwieger , Chem. Phys. Lett., 1990, 167 , 21 —26 CrossRef CAS .
J. C. Groen , G. M. Hamminga , J. A. Moulijn and J. Pérez-Ramírez , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2007, 9 , 4822 —4830 RSC .
J. C. Groen , L. A. A. Peffer , J. A. Moulijn and J. Pérez-Ramírez , Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 2005, 156 , 401 —408 CrossRef CAS .
J. C. Groen , J. C. Jansen , J. A. Moulijn and J. Pérez-Ramírez , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108 , 13062 —13065 CrossRef CAS .
Q. Shen , M. Wu , H. Wang , N. Sun , C. He and W. Wei , Appl. Surf. Sci., 2018, 441 , 474 —481 CrossRef CAS .
R. Qi , T. Fu , W. Wan and Z. Li , Fuel Process. Technol., 2017, 155 , 191 —199 CrossRef CAS .
D. Verboekend , K. Thomas , M. Milina , S. Mitchell , J. Pérez-Ramírez and J.-P. Gilson , Catal. Sci. Technol., 2011, 1 , 1331 —1335 RSC .
D. Verboekend , M. Chabaneix , K. Thomas , J. Gilson and P. Javier , CrystEngComm View, 2011, 13 , 3408 —3416 RSC .
P. J. Kooyman , P. van der Waal and H. van Bekkum , Zeolites, 1997, 18 , 50 —53 CrossRef CAS .
D. D. Anggoro , S. B. Sasongko , L. Buchori , K. C. Sulistyani , A. Oktavijaya and H. Oktavianty , IOP Conf. Ser.: Mater. Sci. Eng., 2019, 578 , 012027 Search PubMed .
J. H. C. Van Kraushaa and B. R. Hoof , Catal. Lett., 1988, 1 , 81 —84 CrossRef .
C. McDaniel and P. Maher , Molecular Sievess, Soc. Chem. Ind. , London, 1968, pp. 186–194 Search PubMed .
L. H. Ong , M. Dömök , R. Olindo , A. C. Van Veen and J. A. Lercher , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2012, 164 , 9 —20 CrossRef CAS .
M. Rostamizadeh and F. Yaripour , J. Taiwan Inst. Chem. Eng., 2017, 71 , 454 —463 CrossRef CAS .
A. R. Maag , G. A. Tompsett , J. Tam , C. A. Ang , G. Azimi , A. D. Carl , X. Huang , L. J. Smith , R. L. Grimm , J. Q. Bond and M. T. Timko , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2019, 21 , 17880 —17892 RSC .
J. García-Martínez , M. Johnson , J. Valla , K. Li and J. Y. Ying , Catal. Sci. Technol., 2012, 2 , 987 —994 RSC .
G. Fraux , F. X. Coudert , A. Boutin and A. H. Fuchs , Chem. Soc. Rev., 2017, 46 , 7421 —7437 RSC .
T. Karbowiak , M. A. Saada , S. Rigolet , A. Ballandras , G. Weber , I. Bezverkhyy , M. Soulard , J. Patarin and J. P. Bellat , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2010, 12 , 11454 —11466 RSC .
L. Tzanis , B. Marler , H. Gies and J. Patarin , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2013, 117 , 4098 —4103 CrossRef CAS .
M. A. Saada , S. Rigolet , J. L. Paillaud , N. Bats , M. Soulard and J. Patarin , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 11650 —11658 CrossRef CAS .
Y. G. Bushuev and G. Sastre , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115 , 21942 —21953 CrossRef CAS .
I. C. Medeiros-Costa , C. Laroche , J. Pérez-Pellitero and B. Coasne , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2019, 287 , 167 —176 CrossRef CAS .
R. M. Mohamed , H. M. Aly , M. F. El-shahat and I. A. Ibrahim , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2005, 79 , 7 —12 CrossRef CAS .
G. Song , W. Chen , P. Dang , Y. Wang and F. Li , R. Soc. Open Sci., 2018, 5 , 181691 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
P. Hrabanek , A. Zikanova , J. Drahokoupil , O. Prokopova , L. Brabec , I. Jirka , M. Matejkova , V. Fila , O. De Iglesia and M. Kocirik , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2013, 174 , 154 —162 CrossRef CAS .
K. E. Hamilton , E. N. Coker , A. Sacco , A. G. Dixon and R. W. Thompson , Zeolites, 1993, 13 , 645 —653 CrossRef CAS .
A. Chawla , R. Li , R. Jain , R. J. Clark , J. G. Sutjianto , J. C. Palmer and J. D. Rimer , Mol. Syst. Des. Eng., 2018, 3 , 159 —170 RSC .
N. Dewaele , P. Bodart , Z. Gabelica and J. B. Nagy , Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 1985, 24 , 119 —128 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. Pelster , W. Schrader and F. Schüth , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128 , 4310 —4317 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
C. E. A. Kirschhock , R. Ravishankar , L. Van Looveren , P. A. Jacobs and J. A. Martens , J. Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103 , 4972 —4978 CrossRef CAS .
C. E. A. Kirschhock , R. Ravishankar , F. Verspeurt , P. J. Grobet , P. A. Jacobs and J. A. Martens , J. Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103 , 4965 —4971 CrossRef CAS .
D. Lesthaeghe , P. Vansteenkiste , T. Verstraelen , A. Ghysels , C. E. A. Kirschhock , J. A. Martens , V. Van Speybroeck and M. Waroquier , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2008, 112 , 9186 —9191 CrossRef CAS .
N. Zeolites , M. Amine , U. M. R. Cnrs and A. Werner , Chem. Mater., 2007, 19 , 1203 —1205 CrossRef .
E. Ng , J. Goupil , C. Fernandez , R. Retoux , V. Valtchev and S. Mintova , Chem. Mater., 2012, 24 , 4758 —4765 CrossRef CAS .
G. Majano , L. Delmotte , V. Valtchev and S. Mintova , Chem. Mater., 2009, 21 , 4184 —4191 CrossRef CAS .
S. Mintova , J. P. Gilson and V. Valtchev , Nanoscale, 2013, 5 , 6693 —6703 RSC .
L. Tosheva and V. P. Valtchev , Chem. Mater., 2005, 17 , 2494 —2513 CrossRef CAS .
V. Valtchev and L. Tosheva , Chem. Rev., 2012, 113 , 6734 —6760 CrossRef PubMed .
D. P. Serrano , J. M. Escola and P. Pizarro , Chem. Soc. Rev., 2013, 42 , 4004 —4035 RSC .
D. P. Serrano , J. Aguado , J. M. Escola , A. Peral , G. Morales and E. Abella , Catal. Today, 2011, 168 , 86 —95 CrossRef CAS .
M. Kumar , H. Luo , Y. Roman-Leshkov and D. Rimer , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2015, 137 , 13007 —13017 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. K.Rubin and P.Chu, Composition of synthetic porous crystalline material, its synthesis and use, US4954325A, 1990.
S. L. Lawton , M. E. Leonowicz , R. D. Partridge , P. Chu and M. K. Rubin , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 1998, 23 , 109 —117 CrossRef CAS .
W. J. Roth , D. L. Dorset and G. J. Kennedy , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2011, 142 , 168 —177 CrossRef CAS .
G. J. Kennedy , M. Afeworki , D. C. Calabro , C. E. Chase and R. J. Smiley , Appl. Spectrosc., 2004, 58 , 698 —704 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. Schimidt , D. Xie and M. E. Davis , Chem. Sci., 2015, 6 , 5955 —5963 RSC .
L. Schreyeck , P. Caullet , J. C. Mougenel , J. L. Guth and B. Marler , Microporous Mater., 1996, 6 , 259 —271 CrossRef CAS .
T. Moteki , W. Chaikittisilp , A. Shimojima and T. Okubo , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 15780 —15781 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Rojas and M. A. Camblor , Chem. Mater., 2014, 26 , 1161 —1169 CrossRef CAS .
T. Kawai and K. Tsutsumi , J. Colloid Interface Sci., 1999, 212 , 310 —316 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Bordiga , P. Ugliengo , A. Damin , C. Lamberti , G. Spoto , A. Zecchina , G. Spanò , R. Buzzoni and L. Dalloro , Top. Catal., 2001, 15 , 43 —52 CrossRef CAS .
L. Forni , G. Fornasari , G. Giordano , C. Lucarelli , A. Katovic , F. Trifirò , C. Perri and J. B. Nagy , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2004, 6 , 1842 —1847 RSC .
E. E. Mallon , M. Y. Jeon , M. Navarro , A. Bhan and M. Tsapatsis , Langmuir, 2013, 29 , 6546 —6555 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. Hunger , J. Kärger , H. Pfeifer , J. Caro , B. Zibrowius , M. Bülow and R. Mostowicz , J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1, 1987, 3459 —3468 RSC .
H. Koller , R. F. Lobo , S. L. Burkett and M. E. Davis , J. Phys. Chem., 1995, 99 , 12588 —12596 CrossRef CAS .
D. Shi , L. Xu , P. Chen , T. Ma , C. Lin , X. Wang , D. Xu and J. Sun , Chem. Commun., 2019, 55 , 1390 —1393 RSC .
G. Feng , P. Cheng , W. Yan , M. Boronat , X. Li , J.-H. Su , J. Wang , Y. Li , A. Corma , R. Xu and J. Yu , Science, 2016, 351 , 1188 LP CrossRef PubMed .
I. Grosskreuz , H. Gies and B. Marler , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2020, 291 , 109683 CrossRef CAS .
A. Corma and V. Forne , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2000, 39 , 2346 —2349 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. Patarin , M. Soulard , H. Kessler , J. L. Guth and J. Baron , Zeolites, 1989, 9 , 397 —404 CrossRef CAS .
P. Caullet , J. L. Paillaud , A. Simon-Masseron , M. Soulard and J. Patarin , C. R. Chim., 2005, 8 , 245 —266 CrossRef CAS .
P. A. Barrett , M. J. Díaz-Cabañas , M. A. Camblor and R. H. Jones , J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans., 1998, 94 , 2475 —2481 RSC .
Y. Ye , M. Yao , H. Chen and X. Zhang , Catal. Lett., 2020, 150 , 1445 —1453 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Qin , L. Lakiss , J. Gilson , K. Thomas , J. Goupil , C. Fernandez and V. Valtchev , Chem. Mater., 2013, 25 , 2759 —2766 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Qin , G. Melinte , J.-P. Gilson , M. Jaber , K. Bozhilov , P. Boullay , S. Mintova , O. Ersen and V. Valtchev , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 15049 —15052 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
K. Iyoki , K. Kikumasa , T. Onishi , Y. Yonezawa , A. Chokkalingam , Y. Yanaba , T. Matsumoto , R. Osuga , S. P. Elangovan , J. N. Kondo , A. Endo , T. Okubo and T. Wakihara , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 3931 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
P. Lanzafame , K. Barbera , S. Perathoner , G. Centi , A. Aloise , M. Migliori , A. MacArio , J. B. Nagy and G. Giordano , J. Catal., 2015, 330 , 558 —568 CrossRef CAS .
S. Prodinger , M. A. Derewinski , A. Vjunov , S. D. Burton , I. Arslan and J. A. Lercher , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2016, 138 , 4408 —4415 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Li , Z. Li , D. Medina , C. Lew and Y. Yan , Chem. Mater., 2005, 17 , 1851 —1854 CrossRef CAS .
S. Eslava , J. Urrutia , A. N. Busaworv , M. R. Baklanov , F. Iacopi , S. Aldea , K. Maex , J. A. Martens and C. E. A. Kirschhock , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 17528 —17536 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Hong , D. Kim , Y. Jeong , E. Kim , J. C. Jung , N. Choi , J. Nam , A. C. K. Yip and J. Choi , Chem. Mater., 2018, 30 , 3346 —3358 CrossRef CAS .
D. Korelskiy , P. Ye , M. S. Nabavi and J. Hedlund , J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5 , 7295 —7299 RSC .
M.Taramasso, G.Perego and B.Notari, Preparation of porous crystalline synthetic material comprised of silicon and titanium oxides, US4410501A, 1983.
R. Millini , G. Perego and G. Bellussi , Top. Catal., 1999, 9 , 13 CrossRef CAS .
S. Dzwigaj , P. Massiani , A. Davidson and M. Che , J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 2000, 155 , 169 —182 CrossRef CAS .
J. Grand , S. N. Talapaneni , A. Vicente , C. Fernandez , E. Dib , H. A. Aleksandrov , G. N. Vayssilov , R. Retoux , P. Boullay , J. Gilson , V. Valtchev and S. Mintova , Nat. Mater., 2017, 16 , 1010 —1015 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
F. Dubray , S. Moldovan , C. Kouvatas , J. Grand , C. Aquino , N. Barrier , J. Gilson , N. Nesterenko , D. Minoux and S. Mintova , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2019, 141 , 8689 —8693 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
H. Y. Luo , L. Bui , W. R. Gunther , E. Min and Y. Roma , ACS Catal., 2012, 2 , 2695 —2699 CrossRef CAS .
S. V. Konnov , F. Dubray , E. B. Clatworthy , C. Kouvatas , J. Gilson , J. Dath , D. Minoux , C. Aquino , V. Valtchev , S. Moldovan , S. Koneti , N. Nesterenko and S. Mintova , Angew. Chem., 2020, 19553 —19560 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Liu , M. Lopez-Haro , C. W. Lopes , C. Li , P. Concepcion , L. Simonelli , J. J. Calvino and A. Corma , Nat. Mater., 2019, 18 , 866 —873 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
G. P. Heitmann , G. Dahlhoff and W. Holderich , J. Catal., 1999, 186 , 12 —19 CrossRef CAS .
W. Zhou , J. Liu , J. Wang , L. Lin , N. He , X. Zhang and H. Guo , Catalysts, 2019, 9 , 571 CrossRef CAS .
J. Zhang , Z. Wang , Y. Lyu , H. Xie , T. Qi , Z. Si , L. Liu , H. Yang and C. Hu , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2019, 123 , 4903 —4913 CrossRef CAS .
E. Janiszewska , A. Macario , J. Wilk , A. Aloise , S. Kowalak , J. B. Nagy and G. Giordano , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2013, 182 , 220 —228 CrossRef CAS .
A. B. Fernández , M. Boronat , T. Blasco and A. Corma , J. Catal., 2007, 249 , 116 —119 CrossRef .
J. N. Kondo , E. Yoda , H. Ishikawa , F. Wakabayashi and K. Domen , J. Catal., 2000, 281 , 275 —281 CrossRef .
Y. Zhang , L. Lin , X. Zheng , C. Liu , Q. Zhu and H. Guo , Catalysts, 2020, 10 , 1 —15 CrossRef .
Y. Wang , Y. Liu , X. Li , H. Wu , M. He and P. Wu , J. Catal., 2009, 266 , 258 —267 CrossRef CAS .
T. R. Josephson , R. F. Dejaco , S. Pahari , L. Ren , Q. Guo , M. Tsapatsis , J. I. Siepmann , D. G. Vlachos and S. Caratzoulas , ACS Catal., 2018, 8 , 9056 —9065 CrossRef CAS .
J. C. Vega-vila and R. Gounder , ACS Catal., 2020, 10 , 12197 —12211 CrossRef CAS .
M. J. Cordon , J. W. Harris , J. Carlos Vega-Vila , J. S. Bates , S. Kaur , M. Gupta , M. E. Witzke , E. C. Wegener , J. T. Miller , D. W. Flaherty , D. D. Hibbitts and R. Gounder , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 14244 —14266 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
D. T. Bregante , A. M. Johnson , A. Y. Patel , E. Z. Ayla , M. J. Cordon , B. C. Bukowski , R. Gounder and D. W. Flaherty , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2019, 141 , 7302 —7319 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Vimont , O. Marie , J. P. Gilson , J. Saussey and J. C. Lavalley , Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 1999, 126 , 147 —154 CrossRef CAS .
F. Thibault-starzyk , A. Vimont and J. Gilson , Catal. Today, 2001, 70 , 227 —241 CrossRef CAS .
I. Prokopyeva , J. Goetze , C. Gucuyener , L. Van Thiel , A. Dikhtiarenko , J. Ruiz-Martinez , B. Weckhuysen , J. Gascon and F. Kapteijn , Catal. Sci. Technol., 2016, 6 , 2663 —2678 RSC .
Z. Qin , L. Lakiss , L. Tosheva and J. Gilson , Adv. Funct. Mater., 2014, 24 , 257 —264 CrossRef CAS .
M. Grahn , A. Faisal , O. G. W. Öhrman , M. Zhou , M. Signorile , V. Crocellà , M. Sadegh and J. Hedlund , Catal. Today, 2020, 345 , 136 —146 CrossRef CAS .
K. Lee , S. Lee , Y. Jun and M. Choi , J. Catal., 2017, 347 , 222 —230 CrossRef CAS .
A. Farzaneh , R. F. Dejaco , L. Ohlin , A. Holmgren , J. I. Siepmann and M. Grahn , Langmuir, 2017, 33 , 8420 —8427 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Vidoni , P. I. Ravikovitch , M. Afeworki , D. Calabro , H. Deckman and D. Ruthven , Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2019, 294 , 109818 CrossRef .
V. A. Online , N. Kosinov , J. Gascon , F. Kapteijn and E. J. M. Hensen , Mater. Chem. A, 2014, 2 , 13083 —13092 RSC .
A. Farzaneh , M. Zhou , O. N. Antzutkin , J. Hedlund , A. Holmgren and M. Grahn , Langmuir, 2016, 32 , 11789 —11798 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
I. Braschi , G. Gatti , C. Bisio , G. Berlier , V. Sacchetto , M. Cossi and L. Marchese , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2012, 116 , 6943 —6952 CrossRef CAS .
A. F. Combariza and G. Sastre , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115 , 13751 —13758 CrossRef CAS .
Y. P. Guo , T. Long , Z. F. Song and Z. A. Zhu , J. Biomed. Mater. Res., Part B, 2014, 102 , 583 —591 CrossRef PubMed .
R. A. García-Muñoz , V. Morales , M. Linares , P. E. González , R. Sanz and D. P. Serrano , J. Mater. Chem. B, 2014, 2 , 7996 —8004 RSC .
P. Tavolaro , G. Martino , S. Andò and A. Tavolaro , Mater. Sci. Eng., C, 2016, 69 , 894 —904 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
P. Tavolaro , S. Catalano , G. Martino and A. Tavolaro , Appl. Surf. Sci., 2016, 380 , 135 —140 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. M. Hanim , N. A. N. N. Malek and Z. Ibrahim , Appl. Surf. Sci., 2016, 360 , 121 —130 CrossRef CAS .
N. Iqbal , M. R. A. Kadir , S. Iqbal , S. Izwan , A. Razak , M. S. Ra , H. R. Bakhsheshi-rad , M. Hasbullah , M. A. Khattak , H. R. B. Raghavendran and A. A. Abbas , Ceram. Int., 2016, 42 , 1 —8 CrossRef .
H. Takadama , H. Kim and T. Kokubo , Chem. Mater., 2001, 1 , 1108 —1113 CrossRef .
B. Kaur , R. Srivastava , B. Satpati , K. K. Kondepudi and M. Bishnoi , Colloids Surf., B, 2015, 135 , 201 —208 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. S. Palatinus , L. Brázda , P. Boullay , P. Perez , O. Klementová , M. Petit , S. Eigner and V. Zaarour , Science, 2017, 355 , 166 —169 CrossRef PubMed .
Footnote
† These authors contributed equally to this work.
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021