element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 85, Issue 3
, 7 November 2005, Pages 195-206
Quantitation of diffusion in zeolite catalysts
Author links open overlay panel
J. Kärger
,
S. Vasenkov
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2005.06.020
Get rights and content
Abstract
Recent access to measuring techniques covering the whole scale of diffusion phenomena relevant for heterogeneous catalysis demands reconsideration of the transport phenomena inherent to heterogeneous catalysis with respect to the options of their quantitation. With respect to the relevant diffusion paths the measuring techniques may be classified as microscopic and macroscopic and with respect to the thermodynamic regime as equilibrium techniques and non-equilibrium techniques. The PFG NMR method is presented as a particularly versatile technique, being able to reflect aspects of both microscopic and macroscopic observation. In addition to the direct measurement of the coefficients of intracrystalline and intraparticle diffusion, it is as well able to provide information about deviations from normal diffusion such as, e.g., in the case of single-file diffusion, and about the existence of transport barriers. With diffusion studies of FCC catalysts an example of the practical application of PFG NMR, including its inherent limitations, is given.
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
DiffusionFCCUSYPFG NMR
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.