element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 12/Issue 9Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
REVIEWApril 14, 2022
Dynamic Evolution of Zeolite Framework and Metal-Zeolite Interface
Zhong-Pan Hu
Jingfeng Han
Yingxu Wei*
Zhongmin Liu*
Open PDF
Abstract
Zeolites and metal-zeolites are a class of porous materials that have been widely utilized in industry. So far, several fundamental questions relating to the dynamic evolution of the zeolite framework and the metal-zeolite interface remain unanswered. Contrary to the classical view of zeolites as a static, rigid, and changeless material, the framework atoms and foreign metals in zeolites can dynamically interconvert under the pretreatment or reaction conditions, making it difficult to identify the real active centers and mechanisms. With the development of characterization techniques and theoretical calculations, a more profound understanding of the dynamic evolution of zeolite framework and metal-zeolite interface at the atomic scale has been achieved. This critical Review will feature the recent progress of the dynamic evolution of zeolite and metal-zeolites, mainly focusing on the T–O–T bonds breaking and formation, metal valence state transformation, phase evolution, and migration. We compare these proposed mechanisms and analyze their suitability in distinct experimental conditions. We highlight that the identification of the active sites and catalytic mechanism of zeolites and metal-zeolites should be cautious and should consider the dynamic evolution of the active centers under reaction conditions. Finally, we summarize the usages and limitations of different characteristic techniques, propose some future research directions about the dynamic evolution of zeolites and metal-zeolites, and hope to bridge the gaps between the knowledge achieved in characterizations and the real nature of the active sites to guide zeolite-based materials synthesis, modification, and application.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2022 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Evolution Reactions
Hydrolysis
Metals
Molecules
Zeolites
Keywords
what are keywords
Zeolite
Metal-Zeolite
Dynamic Evolution
Framework
Interface
Interconversion
Heterogeneous Catalysis
1. Introduction
Catalysts are the footstone of the modern chemical industry, which can conspicuously accelerate the reaction rate, shorten the reaction time, and reduce energy consumption. As an important type of solid catalysts, zeolites have become the backbone in some crucial chemical processes, such as fluid catalytic cracking (FCC), (1,2) methanol-to-olefin (MTO), (3−6) methanol-to-ethanol, (7−9) and coupling conversion of hydrocarbon and methanol/COx to aromatization. (10−13) Zeolites are a class of crystalline microporous materials with a key feature of well-defined channels/cages for reactant molecules adsorption, transformation, and reaction, which are constructed from the connections of corner-sharing TO4 tetrahedra (T = Si, Al, P, etc.). Owing to the presence of AlO4 in aluminosilicate zeolites and SiO4 in silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, the negative charge of zeolite framework requires a balancing cation (usually H+) to ensure electroneutrality, resulting in another key feature of Brønsted acid sites (BAS). (14,15) By controlling the synthesis conditions, diverse metals (e.g., Ti, Sn, Ge, Zr, and Nb) can be introduced into the zeolite framework, forming heteroatomic zeolites with Lewis acidity. (16,17) Besides, the extra-framework metal species with single, cluster, and nanoparticle structures can be accommodated into zeolite channels/cages. (18−20) Until now, more than 250 topologies of zeolites with various compositions and acidities have been developed by bottom-up and top-down strategies, exhibiting many unrivalled catalytic performances (e.g., shape selectivity, (21−23) dynamic autocatalysis, (24,25) and synergistic catalysis). (26,27) Although a lot of progress has been achieved, many aspects of the active sites and catalytic mechanisms in zeolites and metal-zeolites are still under debate.
Ordinarily, zeolites are regarded as a rigid material owing to their high crystallinity, thermal stability, and renewability for various catalytic reactions. As a matter of fact, fast bond breaking and formation, metal valence state transformation, phase evolution, and migration can be observed over the zeolites and metal-zeolites even at a moderate temperature. (28−30) It is necessary to change the classical concept of zeolites as static and solid materials to a novel belief that to some extent, zeolites are dynamic, labile, and flexible under practical reaction conditions. In general, the evolution of framework atoms and foreign metals in zeolites is strongly dependent on the reaction conditions (e.g., temperature, pressure, and steam/reductive/oxidative/acid/base atmosphere) and nature of zeolites (e.g., topology, Si/Al ratio, and crystallinity). (31,32) Representatively, H2O can prolong the life-span of SAPO-34 in MTO by depressing the coke formation or converting coke to active intermediates in MTO catalysts through decreasing the barrier for hydrogenation of heavy aromatic deposits to active aromatic intermediates (33,34) but can also cause zeolite dealumination, desilication, and deactivation. (35,36) Indeed, the metastable property of zeolites was found when they were first synthesized, but it has not been well understood in the past. With the development of in situ and operando characterization techniques and theoretical calculations, a lot of fundamental and in-depth understandings about the dynamic evolution of zeolites and metal-zeolites have been obtained, providing some useful directions and principles to synthesize and modify zeolite-based materials with optimal properties for target reactions.
This Review summarizes the recent processes of the dynamic evolution of zeolite framework and metal-zeolite interface under pretreatment or reaction conditions, aiming to bridge the gap between the measured and actual active sites. The interactions between the host zeolites/metal-zeolites and guest molecules will be globally and dynamically illustrated at the atomic level. The structure of this review is as follows: Section 2 presents the dynamic evolution of the zeolite framework, focusing on the T–O–T reversible and irreversible breaking and formation. The evolution mechanism of zeolites including aluminosilicates, aluminophosphates, and heteroatom zeolites will be compared and discussed. Section 3 reviews the dynamic evolution of metal species in metal-zeolites, mainly about the valence state transformation, phase evolution, and migration under reaction conditions. The mechanisms, characterizations, and novel findings will be summarized and discussed. In section 4, the challenges and outlook of the future research directions about the dynamic evolution of the active sites embedded into zeolites will be proposed and concluded.
2. DYNAMIC EVOLUTION OF ZEOLITE FRAMEWORK
Different from the classical concept of zeolite as a static material, the T–O–T bonds of zeolites can dynamically break and form under reaction conditions. Among the various studies, the interactions between zeolites and H2O have drawn particular attention because H2O is a common medium for zeolite synthesis, modification, and applications. It is known that H2O is involved in the hydrolysis, condensation, and crystallization processes of zeolites but can also lead to zeolite destruction and deactivation. Therefore, making clear the interaction mechanisms is of great importance. However, these interactions are complex because the H2O inside zeolites possesses distinct structures as compared with those in an environment without confinement. (37−41) Furthermore, the conditions (e.g., temperature, partial pressure, and amount) can affect the structure of H2O (i.e., single, cluster, and bulk). (42−44) In this part, we clarify the dynamic evolution of zeolites into reversible and irreversible hydrolysis of T–O–T bonds and compare these mechanisms at the atomic level.
2.1. Reversible Breaking and Formation of T–O–T Bonds
Aluminosilicate Zeolites
Contrary to the classical view of zeolite as a static, rigid, and changeless material, recent studies found that the T–O–T bonds of zeolites could be reversibly broken and formed under moderate steam treatment conditions, showing a dynamic and reversible feature. For instance, Heard et al. developed a 17O isotope labeling experiment using H217O and demonstrated that the CHA zeolite could be reversibly hydrolyzed in neutral liquid water without framework degradation. (28) They proposed a novel mechanism for Si–O bonds hydrolysis, in which the Si–O bonds started to be hydrolyzed through the interaction between a H2O molecule and framework O. Subsequently, a H2O molecules chain was formed and attached to the adjacent framework O, resulting in Si–O cleavage with a low barrier of 63 kJ mol–1. (45,46) Ab initio molecular dynamic (AIMD) results revealed the Al–O bond hydrolysis was much easier than Si–O bonds so that the Al–O bonds could be hydrolyzed by a single H2O to form a H2OAlO3 tetrahedron. Furthermore, 17O isotope labeling experiments were performed, and the corresponding 17O nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra exhibited obvious framework 17O signals (Si-17O-Si at 33 ppm and Si-17O-Al at 20–25 ppm), demonstrating the presence of a quick equilibrium of hydrolyzed and unhydrolyzed zeolite framework in H217O. This work gives a novel insight into the static zeolites that are labile and dynamic with fast bond breakage and recovery in H2O atmosphere.
Later, Ashbrook and co-workers compared two zeolites (MOR and FER) and two agents (17O2 and H217O), finding that the 17O in these two zeolites were more easily enriched by H217O than 17O2. (29) They also found that the 17O-exchanged orders of different T–O–T bonds were strongly dependent on the type of guest molecules. In the atmosphere of H217O, 17O atoms preferentially incorporated into the Si–O–Al bonds, e.g., (Si–17O–Al):(Si–17O–Si) ratio of ∼1.3:1 for the MOR zeolite exchanged by H217O for ∼18 h. However, a (Si–17O–Al):(Si–17O–Si) ratio of ∼0.18:1 was obtained over the 17O2-exchanged MOR zeolite at the same condition, which is similar to the calculated (Si–O–Al):(Si–O–Si) ratio (∼0.2:1, Si/Al = 11). Besides, they investigated the 17O-exchanged behavior of Na-MOR in H217O and found that the enrichment of 17O in Na-MOR was slower than H-MOR zeolite, suggesting the Na+ had negative effects on the isotopic exchange process. However, the mechanisms were not proposed and confirmed. Recently, Sholl and co-workers studied the hydrolysis mechanisms of the first Al–O bond in protonic and cationic (Na, K, and Ca) LTA zeolites and demonstrated that the cationic LTA zeolites were more kinetically stable than H-LTA owing to the different dissociation processes of H2O in H-LTA and cationic LTA zeolites. (47) Density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that the hydrolysis reaction in H-LTA followed the H2O dissociation and proton transfer and rotation, while a second transfer of the proton was observed in cationic LTA zeolites. Therefore, the first Al–O bonds did not break concurrently with H2O dissociation in cationic LTA zeolites, resulting in a higher energy barrier than that on H-LTA. Noticeably, the free energy for the Al–O–Si bond cleavage by two H2O molecules is a little higher than that by a single H2O molecule, which is different from some previous studies. (28,29) Therefore, more systematic and quantitative experiments are necessary to give more convincing evidence about the T–O–T breakage and formation mechanism of cationic zeolites.
Silicoaluminophosphate (SAPO) Zeolites
At nearly the same time as the above work was published, our work investigated the hydrothermal treatment of the aluminosilicate phosphate zeolites (SAPO-34) in H217O atmosphere, in which the dynamic and reversible breaking and formation of T–O–T bonds in SAPO-34 occurred at the moderate temperature in the range of 100–300 °C (Figure 1). (48) On the basis of 17O NMR spectroscopy, the dynamic incorporation of 17O from H217O into the SAPO-34 framework were illustrated in detail. The 1D and 2D 17O NMR spectra of the 300 °C-treated SAPO-34 in H217O possessed two obvious signals at around 21 ppm (Si-17O-Al) and 48 ppm (P-17O-Al), indicating the 17O atoms were well incorporated into the SAPO-34 framework without obvious degradation. Owing to the relatively high H217O-exchanged temperature, the 17O incorporation mechanism was proposed: (i) A single H2O was adsorbed onto Al atoms in both Si–O–Al and P–O–Al bonds. (ii) The T–O–T bonds were hydrolyzed through the formation of SiO3OH···HOAlO3 and PO3OH···HOAlO3. (iii) A dehydration reaction over SiO3OH···HOAlO3 and PO3OH···HOAlO3 resulted in the recovery of Si–O–Al and P–O–Al bonds.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Ship-in-a-bottle strategy for acidity characterization and SAPO-34 catalyst modification for MTO reaction. Adapted with permission from ref (48). Copyright 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Creatively, we took advantage of the reversible evolution of the T–O–T bonds in SAPO-34 zeolite to characterize the acidity of SAPO-34 through cointroduction of H2O and trimethylphosphine (TMP)/pyridine. Multiple characterizations (1H decoupled 31P MAS NMR, 1H MAS NMR, and confocal fluorescence microscopy measurements) demonstrated that a large amount of TMP and pyridine were introduced into the SAPO-34 cages with cofeeding H2O and TMP/pyridine. However, almost no TMP/pyridine could be detected in SAPO-34 when only TMP/pyridine was introduced for adsorption and diffusion, demonstrating that the H2O molecule could open the 8-membered ring (8-MR) window of SAPO-34. Furthermore, theoretical calculations confirmed that the diffusions of TMP and pyridine in the 8-MR window of SAPO-34 were not feasible with a high energy barrier of ∼40 kcal mol–1. When one or two T–O–T bonds in the 8-MR window were broken, the diffusion energies for TMP and pyridine could be dramatically decreased, that is, 13.8 and 6.5 kcal mol–1 for TMP and pyridine diffusion through the 8-MR window of SAPO-34 with two opposite T–O–T bonds broken. The reversible breaking and formation of T–O–T bonds in SAPO-34 helped to realize the introduction of TMP and pyridine into the cavities of SAPO-34, which can be used to characterize the acidity of zeolites with smaller pore windows than probe molecules.
Another innovation, the TMP/pyridine modified SAPO-34 zeolites were applied for MTO reactions, exhibiting improved ethene selectivity. The pyridine accommodation established the diffusion obstacle for the produced long-chain alkenes, which improved the catalytic performance of SAPO-34 zeolite in the MTO reaction. This ship-in-a-bottle strategy is an effective way to illustrate the dynamic and reversible evolution of zeolite, to characterize the zeolite acidity, and to functionalize the zeolites for various applications including MTO. Very recently, a similar work about the dynamic evolution of the SAPO-34 framework in MTO was reported by Dai and co-workers that the hydrolysis of P–O–Al bonds was found in the spent SAPO-34 after a short time stream treatment at a high reaction temperature of ∼400 °C. (49) With the proceeding of MTO, hydrocarbon pool species would be formed in the cages and pores of SAPO-34, which could cover some BAS and P–O–Al bonds and thereby prevent the SAPO-34 framework from hydrolysis by H2O. Contrast experiments about SAPO-34 with/without precoking illustrated that the organic deposits in SAPO-34 zeolite could act as a protective agent to enhance the stability of SAPO-34 zeolite.
Apart from H2O, other guest molecules (e.g., methanol) can lead to the reversible evolution of the zeolite framework. Recently, Zheng and co-workers reported that the methanol adsorbed onto the pristine SAPO-34 zeolite could induce a frustrated Lewis pair (FLP, three-coordinated framework Al as Lewis acid site and SiO(H) as Lewis basic site), which was favorable for the formation of surface methoxy species (SMS) during MTO reaction. (50) Multiple characterizations and theoretical calculations revealed that the methoxy species were first bonded to the framework Al in the induced FLP state with the hydroxyl proton attached to the Lewis base sites, and the dynamic evolution of FLP could accelerate the catalytic reaction. In situ DRIFT experiments about 16O/18O-methanol adsorption demonstrated that the oxygen species in SMS were from the methanol, confirming the proposed mechanism. This work gives a novel and dynamic insight into the active sites and catalytic mechanism of MTO reaction and proposes a possible route for SMS species formation. Later, Chen et al. extended the FLP concept into the supramolecular in MTO reaction using SAPO-34 and ssz-13 zeolite, in which the polymethylbenzenium (PMB+) functioned as the Lewis acid to accept an electron pair, and the deprotonated framework oxygen site acted as the Lewis base to donate an electron pair. (51) Theoretical calculations and experimental results verified that this FLP could catalyze H2 heterolysis and dehydrogenation of alkanes. This work convinces us that the identification of the active sites and catalytic mechanisms should be cautious and should consider the dynamic evolution of intermediates during the catalytic process.
Heteroatomic Zeolites
In the 1990s, several studies reported that the Si–O–Ti bonds in TS-1 zeolites could be reversibly transformed into the titanol Ti–OH and the silanol Si–OH species, and the Ti═O bonds could reversibly convert to SiO2Ti(OH)2. (52,53) Later, To et al. studied the interactions between H2O and Ti sites using a hybrid quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical method. (54) In the presence of one H2O molecule, the insertion of one H2O increased the coordination number of Ti atom from four to five in the tetrapodal, tripodal, bipodal, and titanyl configurations, and then from five to six. In the presence of two H2O molecules, there are two models (i.e., mono(aquo) and bis(aquo) complexes). Particularly, bis(aquo) tripodal model was the most stable structure, suggesting that the hydrolysis and inversion of tetrahedral sites could boost the reactivity of Ti sites with H2O. Furthermore, Qi et al. developed a two-dimensional proton-detected 1H/119Sn correlation solid-state NMR spectroscopy to characterize Sn-Beta zeolites before and after hydrolysis by H2O, revealing the presence of reversible interconversion of Sn sites in Beta zeolites. (55) Typically, Sn-Beta zeolite with 97.4% 119Sn was synthesized using isotope 119Sn precursor. Then, two-dimensional 1H {119Sn} HMQC MAS NMR experiments were performed over 119Sn-Beta dehydrated at 393 K with and without 119Sn decoupling. Similar to the monoalkyl-SnCl3–x(OH)x, the two-dimensional 1H {119Sn} HMQC MAS NMR spectra of 119Sn-Beta dehydrated at 393 K exhibited four signals, suggesting the presence of two types of open Sn sites ((SiO)3Sn–OH) located at different T sites. Furthermore, 1H {29Si} D-HMQC NMR experiments were conducted over 119Sn-Beta dehydrated at 393 and 673 K, showing an obvious decrease of the signal of Si(OSi)3OH, which was due to the transformation of open (SiO)3Sn–OH to closed (SiO)4Sn species. When the 119Sn-Beta was rehydrated, the closed (SiO)4Sn could be transformed into (SiO)3Sn–OH species, showing a visible signal in the 1H {119Sn} HMQC NMR spectrum. This work develops the approach of solid-state NMR spectroscopy to identify the dynamic and reversible interconversion of (SiO)3Sn–OH and (SiO)4Sn species in zeolites, giving an insight into the dynamic evolution of metal sites in heteroatomic zeolites.
2.2. Irreversible Breakage of T–O–T Bonds
The irreversible breakage of T–O–T bonds is a common phenomenon in zeolites, such as dealumination, desilication, and secondary pore formation, which would result in a partial loss in acidity, structure collapse, and/or zeolite deactivation. (56−58) Different from the reversible breakage of T–O–T bonds, the irreversible breakage of T–O–T bonds is a violent reaction, in which the framework T–O–T bonds would be deeply broken or even be removed from the framework. Herein, the irreversible breakage of T–O–T bonds over different zeolites are compared and discussed.
Aluminosilicate Zeolites
It is known that zeolites can be hydrolyzed in acidic and alkaline solutions. (59,60) However, these processes are difficult to control, usually leading to structure collapse and inhomogeneity demetalization from the surface to the interior of zeolites. As a neutral medium, H2O vapor and steam can be used as a suitable agent to control the zeolite modification through adjusting the H2O partial pressure and treatment temperature. However, the interactions between H2O and zeolites are complex owing to the complex structure of H2O molecules.
To simplify the interactions between H2O and zeolites, Swang and co-workers chose a natural first strategy by adding H2O molecules sequentially (Figure 2, a single H2O molecule). (61) As a consequence, the demetalization processes can be regarded as a series of hydration reactions: (i) Dealumination process: First, hydration results in a vicinal disilanol defect, and reorientation of the vicinal disilanol creates a Si–OH and an Al–OH. Second, hydration produces two Si–OH and two Al–OH. Third, hydration results in Al(OH)3 with hydrogen bond to Si–OH. Fourth, H2O molecule adsorption generates the final Al(OH)3(H2O) compound. (ii) Desilication process: Similar but different to the dealumination process, the fourth hydration results in Si(OH)4 rather than Al(OH)3(H2O). However, very high barriers for dealumination (190 kJ mol–1) and desilication (260 kJ mol–1) were obtained. Later, a microkinetic model was built to analyze the dealumination process of H-SSZ-13 zeolite and found that the first hydrolysis step was insignificant for the kinetics of zeolite dealumination, and the fourth hydrolysis step could be used to estimate the dealumination rate at the temperature over 700 K. (62) Furthermore, several different mechanisms have been proposed for the Al–O bond hydrolysis. For instance, a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship was established by Silaghi et al. (Figure 2, a single H2O molecule) that the H2O adsorption on the Al atom at the antiposition to the Brønsted acid site to create a penta- or distorted tetra-coordinated Al species; subsequently, the adsorbed H2O was dissociated at the adjacent framework O atoms, leading to the first Al–O(H) bond breaking with relatively low activation energies of ∼76–125 kJ mol–1. (63,64) Very recently, a similar dealumination mechanism of H-BEA zeolite was proposed by Mei and co-workers using AIMD simulations. (65) It was found that the hydrolysis step started by proton transfer, and then one H2O molecule attracted the Al atom at the antiposition of the protonated OAl atom, resulting in one Al–OAl bond breaking and one Al–OW bond formation. The free energy barriers of these four hydrolysis steps are 16.6, 20.8, 69.3, and 50.0 kJ/mol, respectively, which are a little lower than those in MOR, FAU, and CHA zeolite. Recently, the distorted tetra-coordinated Al species were detected by Chen et al. using NMR at 35.2 T, (66,67) further confirming the possibility of the Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship mechanism for T–O–T bond breakage.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Proposed mechanisms for zeolite hydrolysis include a single H2O molecule mechanism, (61,63) two H2O molecules mechanism, (68) and multi-H2O molecules mechanism. (82) Adapted with permission from refs (61), (63), (68), and (82). Copyright 2012 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim; Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society; and Copyright 2021 American Chemical Society.
In recent years, several studies proposed that the collective mechanism considering the interactions between H2O molecules was more suitable for T–O–T bond irreversible breaking than a single H2O mechanism. (68,69) For instance, Stanciakova et al. reported that the Al–O(H) scission was induced by two adsorbed H2O molecules involving five mechanisms (Figure 2, two H2O molecules): (68) (i) Mechanism I is identical to the previous reported single H2O molecule model. (63,64) (ii) Mechanism II (water-mediated proton transfer) is similar to the mechanism I, but it only has dually coordinated mode B’ which allows proton transfer and thereby lowers the reaction barrier. (iii) In mechanism III (water insertion), one H2O would be adsorbed onto the original protonated oxygen atom and another H2O would be attached on the Al atom, forming a vicinal disilanol with one H2O adsorbed onto the original protonated oxygen atom; subsequently, Al–OH and Si–OH are formed after Al–OH-Si cleavage. (iv) In mechanism IV (spontaneous Al–O(H) breaking), Al–O(H) bond breaking occurs from a dually coordinated mode B’. By comparing these four mechanisms to the single H2O mechanism, it was found that the second H2O molecule could accelerate the Al–O(H) bond breaking, lowering the energy barriers. In fact, H2O clusters with different structures (1D or 3D chain of H2O molecules containing hydrogen bonds) could be formed in zeolites. (28,37,70) These H2O molecules can collectively break the T–O–T bonds with a low activation barrier. In section 2.1, collective mechanisms about reversible breaking of T–O–T bonds and formation have been discussed in detail.
Apart from H2O, several other reagents have been used for zeolite demetalization at the atomic level (e.g., SiCl4 and NH4F). A recent work by Mintova and our group demonstrated that the application of NH4F for zeolite treatment could selectively open the sodalite (SOD) cages of Y zeolites by removing the framework T atoms from SOD cages. (71) This work illustrated the dynamic evolution in porosity, micropores to mesopores, and enlarged mesopores in Y zeolite, by multicharacterizations and DFT calculations (Figure 3): Three-dimensional transmission electron microscopy (3D-TEM) revealed that mesopores were initially formed by etching the wall of cages. Subsequently, two or multiple mesopores would merge into enlarged mesopores. NMR characterization about Xe diffusion demonstrated that Xe molecules were first penetrated through the opened SOD cages and then diffused to supercages of the mesoporous zeolites. DFT calculations confirmed that Xe diffusion between SOD and supercages likely took place at the defects of six-member-ring separating these two types of cages, which was caused by the NH4F treatment. This study opens up an efficient way to achieve zeolites with controlling mesopores, thus improving the catalytic performance in 1,3,5 tri-isopropylbenzene dealkylation and n-octane hydroconversion.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Dynamic evolution of Y zeolites from micropores to mesopores and enlarged mesopores characterized by 3D-TEM, Xe-NMR, and DFT calculations. Adapted with permission from ref (71). Copyright 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
SAPO Zeolites
Different from aluminosilicate zeolites, SAPO zeolites possess different T–O–T bonds (e.g., P–O–Al bonds and (AlO)3Si–OH-Al microstructure), which usually exhibit some unique properties relative to aluminosilicate zeolites. In the 1990s, H2O adsorbed in SAPO-34 has been studied by experiments and ab initio simulations, revealing the presence of hydronium (H3O+), H5O2+ dimers, and H3O+(H2O)n clusters in SAPO-34. (72,73) However, the violent reaction mechanism between H2O and the SAPO zeolite framework is rarely reported. Recently, several studies based on theoretical calculations have been performed to study the demetalization processes of SAPO zeolites. For instance, Fjermestad et al. reported that the demetalization processes of SSZ-13 and SAPO-34 zeolites were strongly dependent on the proton location, in which the SSZ-13 and SAPO-34 zeolites possessed the same mechanism for the first T–O–T bond hydrolysis but the different mechanisms for deep hydrolysis. (74) Typically, the first T–O–T bond hydrolysis in both SSZ-13 and SAPO-34 was through the formation of a vicinal disilanol defect (Al-(OH)2-Si). For SAPO-34, after the first T–O–T bond cleavage, the proton was transferred to a nearby Si–O–Al to form a Si–OH and three Al–O–Si species (S2b-H2O), while in SSZ-13, the proton was still bonded to an oxygen atom (Si–OH-Al) with one Si–OH, one Al–OH, and one Si–O–Al (Z2-H2O). Later, they proposed two new pathways for SAPO-34 desilication involving stepwise hydrolyses of Si–O–Al bonds: (75) (i) A single H2O molecule was coordinated to Al atom rather than to the proton, lowering the Si–O–Al bond breaking energy. (ii) Two H2O molecules were adsorbed onto the acidic proton and Al atom, respectively, to break the T–O–T bonds. As compared with the H2O molecule interacting with an acidic proton, (74) H2O molecule coordinated to Al atom can lower the activation barrier of T–O–T scission, which is crucial for the breakage of the T–O–T bonds. Furthermore, the formation of Si islands in SAPO-34 has been reported that the silanol nests generated by desilication could be healed by an available H3PO4 molecule, and the framework position of the P atom could be healed by the extra-framework Si(OH)4. (76) Hence, Si islands were formed because of the repeated migration and location of framework and extra-framework P and Si species.
Furthermore, several experimental studies were carried out to illustrate the interactions between H2O and SAPO zeolites. A typical example by Kolokathis et al. studied the instability of SAPO-37 after H2O adsorption at different temperatures by in situ synchrotron radiation powder X-ray diffraction (SR-PXRD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). (77) The in situ SR-PXRD and H2O adsorption measurements revealed that the temperature could significantly affect the H2O affinity and stability of SAPO-37: At the temperature below 345 K, SAPO-37 had the strongest affinity to H2O, which could adsorb an order of magnitude more H2O molecules than at the temperature above 345 K. As a consequence, the massive adsorbed H2O in SOD cages could dramatically change the T–O–T angles of 4-rings at the SOD-d6r-SOD interface (e.g., the T–O4–T angle decreased from 166° to 101° after it adsorbed H2O in a matter of seconds), leading to the structure collapses. Therefore, the high concentration of H2O around the acid centers and defects, together with the geometry of the framework, is the main reason for the structural destabilization of SAPO-37. Until now, only several experimental studies have been exploited to study the stability of SAPOs in hydrothermal treatment, which is probably due to the too rapid change of the structure to be directly evidenced.
Heteroatomic Zeolites
Previous publications have reported the interactions between H2O molecules and heteroatomic zeolites (e.g., Sn-Beta, TS-1, and Ge-UTL). (78−82) Wolf et al. proposed two hydration pathways for Sn-Beta zeolites: (79) (i) A H2O molecule in the second coordination sphere of Sn atom leads to the Sn–O–Si bond cleavage to a Si–OH and a Sn–OH. (ii) A H2O molecule is coordinated to Sn atom and generates a Sn–(OH)–Si and a Sn–OH. Similar results were obtained by Sushkevich et al. that the H2O could induce Brønsted acid sites in Sn-BEA zeolites. (80) By NMR and FTIR spectroscopy, they demonstrated the formation of new bridged OH groups (Sn-(OH)-Si) in Sn-Beta zeolite, which possessed strong Brønsted acidity and could lead to pyridine protonation. Besides, the type of guest molecules can affect the coordination states of Sn species. Yakimov et al. compared three different guest molecules (acetonitrile, methanol, and H2O) adsorbed on Sn-Beta zeolites and found that the acetonitrile and methanol would be adsorbed on Sn atom to result in pentacoordinated Sn species, while a H2O molecule was first adsorbed onto Sn to result in pentacoordinated Sn species and subsequently hexacoordinated species would be generated after long time reaction. (81)
Besides, the partial pressure of H2O can affect the interactions between H2O and zeolites. Jin et al. reported that the reversible and irreversible adsorption of H2O on Ge-UTL zeolites was strongly dependent on the partial pressure of H2O (Figure 2, multi-H2O molecules). (82) H2O sorption analysis indicated that the H2O adsorption on Ge-UTL with different Si/Ge ratios was reversible at P/P0 < 0.3 and irreversible at P/P0 > 0.3. Mechanistic analysis based on molecular dynamics simulations suggested that the interactions between H2O and Ge-UTL zeolite framework followed four mechanisms: (i) The equatorial-inversion mechanism for Ge-poor Ge-UTL in low H2O partial pressure, a single H2O molecular was attached to one Ge–Of bond to form Ge(OfSi)3OwH (Q3) and Si–OfH. (ii) The vicinal mechanism for Ge-rich Ge-UTL in low H2O partial pressure, a single H2O was attached to two Ge–Of bonds (Ge–Of–Ge) to produce Ge-(OfHw)(OwHw)-Ge. (iii) The axial mechanism for Ge-poor Ge-UTL in high H2O partial pressure, H2O chain with four H2O molecules (one-dimensional hydrogen bonds) was attached to Ge and the adjacent O atom in one Ge–Of bond, resulting in Ge–OwH and Si–OfH species. (iv) S2R mechanism for Ge-rich Ge-UTL in high H2O partial pressure, a H2O molecule with two hydrogen bonds reacted with Ge atom to result in Ge-(Of)(Ow)-Ge species and two protons in the channel, in which one of the protons tended to attach to the Ge-(Of)(Ow)-Ge. In particular, the H2O amount played a key role in determining the reversible and irreversible processes of Ge–O bonds: (i) Reversible breaking and formation of Ge–O bonds occurred in both Ge-poor and Ge-rich Ge-UTL zeolites in the condition of low H2O partial pressure. (ii) In the presence of H2O with high partial pressure, deep decomposition of Ge–O bonds would occur involving collective mechanisms (axial and S2R).
On the basis of the above analysis, it can be concluded that the guest molecules tend to coordinate to the metal sites in heteroatomic zeolites and weaken the M–O–Si bond by increasing the coordination number of metal sites which cause the cleavage of the M–O–Si to form M–OH and Si–OH bonds. However, most studies are focused on only one H2O molecule or step-by-step hydrolysis process, which cannot reflect the real dynamic interactions between H2O and metal sites. Furthermore, metal species in zeolites as heteroatoms only possess low amounts and LAS, which are hard to identify by some characterization techniques such as XRD, NMR, and FTIR spectroscopy. Therefore, more efficient characterization approaches should be developed to give more convincing evidence about the dynamic evolution of heteroatoms in the zeolite framework.
3. DYNAMIC EVOLUTION OF METAL SITES IN METAL-ZEOLITES
The introduction of metal species into zeolites is a promising and efficient approach to construct solid catalysts. The channels/cages of zeolites are smaller than 1 nm, which can provide a confined microenvironment to stabilize metal species and modify their chemical and electronic properties. Different from the framework atoms of zeolites, the metal species in zeolites possess various structures and states, which can interconvert to each other under different conditions. In recent years, the dynamic evolution of foreign metals in zeolites has been gradually discovered and illustrated. Herein, we summarize the recent progress about the dynamic evolution of metal sites in zeolites, mainly about the valence state transformation, metal phase transformation (metal carbides and metal hydrides), and metal migration.
3.1. Valence State Transformation
Supported metal species on zeolite generally possess several different states, which are strongly dependent on the loading amount, synthesis conditions, and support types. During the catalytic reaction, the valence states of metal species can be transformed from one to another, showing reversible and/or irreversible features. (83−85) Over the past several years, the dynamic evolution of metal active sites in zeolites have been found in several catalytic reactions (e.g., methane dehydroaromatization (MDA), (85) selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides (NOx), (86,87) and methane oxidation to methanol). (83,88−91) In these reactions, the dynamic evolution of valence states of the supported metal species can induce the energetically feasible with lower activation energy. In the following subsection, a case-by-case discussion about the dynamic evolution of Fe and Cu species in zeolites will be provided in detail.
It is known that Fe species possess three typical valence states, i.e., +3, +2, and 0, which can be interconverted under different oxidative or reductive conditions (Fe2O3 ↔ Fe3O4 ↔ FeO ↔ Fe). Being confined in zeolites, the states of Fe species can be increased because the zeolite microenvironment can stabilize Fe sites with a high coordination number. (92−95) Consequently, the dynamic evolution of the unique structure of Fe species in zeolite would result in many special performances. A typical example by Snyder et al. reported that the Fe species confined by CHA and BEA zeolites exhibited different renewability in the reaction of CH4 hydroxylation to CH3OH due to the presence of different cages in CHA and BEA (Figure 4a). (95) From the topological structure perspective, the Fe-BEA and Fe-CHA zeolites possess high similarity in the first coordination spheres (mononuclear and high-spine Fe(IV)═O species) but different local porous environments (i.e., α-Fe(IV)═O in BEA and CHA can be accessed through 12-MR (5.9 Å) and 8-MR (3.7 Å), respectively). Therefore, the reactant CH4 with van der Waals diameter of 4.1–4.2 Å diffuse through the pore aperture must be hindered in CHA (3.7 Å). After the C–H bond breaking, the CH3 radicals formed in small pore CHA zeolite cannot be released from the active sites, accelerating CH3 radicals to form CH3OH rather than deactivated Fe–O–CH3 species. As to Fe-BEA, CH3 radicals can be easily released from the Fe active sites in BEA zeolite with large pore apertures, resulting in deactivated Fe species in the form of α-Fe(III)–OH and α-Fe(III)–OCH3. Therefore, 40% of active sites in Fe-CHA can be regenerated during the CH4 oxidation process, while Fe-BEA deactivates completely after a single turnover. Furthermore, the dynamic evolution of Fe states has been found in the supported dimeric Fe complexes toward CH4 selective oxidation and NOx-SCR. (96−99) Different from single Fe sites, there are several kinds of dimeric Fe species in zeolites, for example, 2 × [FeO]+, [OFe(μ-O)Fe]2+, and [Fe(μ-O)2Fe]2+. (96) A recent study about the CH4 selective oxidation on Fe/ZSM-5 was reported in which the initial Fe sites ([(H2O)2–Fe(III)–(μO)2–Fe(III)–(H2O)2]2+) could be first oxidized by H2O2 to form Fe(III)-oxo and Fe(IV)-oxo complexes. (97) Then, the oxidized Fe sites promoted the C–H bond scission through three possible mechanisms: heterolytic, hemolytic methane dissociation, and Fenton-type reaction. Notably, the dynamic evolution of Fe sites gives rise to Fe(III)-oxo and Fe(IV)-oxo from [(H2O)2–Fe(III)–(μO)2–Fe(III)–(H2O)2]2+ species. These two Fe species working as the reaction centers significantly decreased the activation energy of C–H bond cleavage.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Valence state transformation of metal sites inside zeolites during the catalytic process: (a) the transformation of α-Fe(IV)═O in *BEA and CHA during methane hydroxylation. (95) (b) NH3–SCR reaction mechanism of Cu-CHA. (107) (c) Selective anaerobic oxidation of methane to methanol over Cu-CHA by H2O. (108) Adapted with permission from refs (95), (107), and (108). Copyright 2021 The American Association for the Advancement of Science and Copyright 2017 The American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Zeolites with Cu confined ions are one of the most widely reported metal-zeolites for several reactions (e.g., NH3–SCR and CH4 oxidation to CH3OH). Typically, Cu has +1 and +2 valence states and can reversibly transform from one to another, showing the oxidation–reduction property. (100−102) After the introduction of Cu species into zeolites, the framework O atoms can provide a 4-fold coordination environment to stabilize Cu ions, modifying the nature of Cu species. In the 1970s, Cu-exchanged Y zeolite was reported as an efficient catalyst for NH3–SCR of NOx, but the catalytic mechanism was not proposed and demonstrated. (103) In recent years, the type of Cu active sites in zeolites has been identified, for example, isolated Cu species (ZCu2+OH, ZCu+, and Z2Cu2+; Z represents zeolite) and dimeric Cu complexes (Cu2+–O-Cu2+). (104−106) These Cu active sites application in the NH3–SCR reaction exhibit different activity, stability, and mechanism, in which the dynamic evolution of Cu ions in zeolite plays crucial roles in determining reaction performance and exact mechanistic pathways. For example, Paolucci et al. reported that isolated Z2Cu2+ could travel through adjacent CHA zeolite windows to form transient Cu2+–O–Cu2+ pairs during SCR reaction, providing a suitable configuration for O2-mediated Cu+ → Cu2+ redox step (Figure 4b). (107) It is worthwhile to note that the electrostatic tethering to framework Al sites and the limited volume of CHA zeolite cage can only result in one Cu2+–O-Cu2+ pair. By the aid of steady-state measurements, characterizations, and theoretical calculations, the catalytic mechanisms on single Cu2+ and the Cu2+–O–Cu2+ pair were determined as the following: single Cu2+ catalyzed the reduction, one SCR half-cycle, while Cu2+–O–Cu2+ catalyzed the oxidation, the other SCR half-cycle. Accordingly, the reaction conditions and Cu density can significantly affect the dynamic evolution ability of Cu species, affecting the SCR performance of Cu-CHA catalysts. Apart from that, the dynamic evolution of Cu states in zeolite is also of great importance for methane selective oxidation to methanol. (108−112) Sushkevich et al. reported that Cu2+ centers would transform into Cu+ during the beginning period of methane oxidation and then Cu+ could be oxidized to Cu2+ by H2O (Figure 4c). (108) Methanol desorption experiments, XAS and FTIR spectroscopic studies, and theoretical calculations illustrated that the reversible change of Cu ions (Cu2+ ↔ Cu+) realized the regeneration of active centers, accelerated methanol desorption, and importantly minimized the activation energy of the selected pathway for methane to methanol. Different than O2, the water returned two electrons, producing reactive Cu2+ and H2. It is notable that only the limited size of CHA zeolite pores can generate mono(m-oxo)dicopper active sites, enabling H2O acting as an oxidant to regenerate Cu sites and simultaneously stabilize reaction intermediates and transition states.
3.2. Metal Carbides
In many catalytic reactions (e.g., alkane conversion and Fischer–Tropsch synthesis) involving metal-zeolite catalysts, metal species existing in oxidation state in the fresh catalyst could transform into metal carbides during the reaction, thereby affecting the catalytic performance and mechanism. (83,85,113) Among the various metals, Mo and Fe species supported on HZSM-5 have been widely reported for the formation of metal oxycarbidic and carbide counterparts. In the fresh Mo-zeolite samples, there are many kinds of Mo species on zeolites, e.g., MoOx cluster, isolated MoO4 and MoO6, MoO4–MoO6 chain, and MoO3–O-MoO3 dimer. (114) Upon utilization Mo-zeolite in MDA reaction, molybdenum oxycarbide (MoxCyO), and carbide (MoxCy) with different structures and stoichiometry would be formed with the reaction. (115−119) Recently, Lezcano-González et al. developed an operando XAS to study the nature of Mo species during MDA reaction and revealed that the dynamic evolution of Mo species inside HZSM-5 zeolites played key roles in determining the MDA performance (Figure 5a). (118) Initially, isolated Mo-oxo species would convert to MoCxOy species by CH4, which were primarily responsible for C2Hx/C3Hx formation. With the reaction progress, MoC3 clusters would be generated, which were responsible for benzene formation. The further long-time reaction led to the transformation of MoC3 to larger Mo2C-like nanoparticles on the external surface of HZSM-5 zeolite, which was less active. Furthermore, CO-FTIR, dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP) measurements and DFT calculations confirmed the transformation of Mo species within zeolites. (119,120) To make full utilization of the dynamic evolution of Mo species, the chemical looping process is introduced into the Mo-zeolites catalyst system for MDA reaction, which can improve the activity and efficiency. (121,122) Apart from the Mo sites, iron carbide species have been reported in Fe-zeolite catalysts toward hydrocarbon transformation. (123−125) These findings can help us to better understand the actual active sites and catalytic mechanism of metal-zeolites in actual reaction conditions and guide meal-zeolites design and synthesis.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Dynamic evolution of foreign metals in zeolites during the catalytic process. (a) Schematic illustration of the dynamic evolution of Mo species in HZSM-5 during MDA reaction. (118) (b) Schematic illustration of the evolution of Ga species on MFI zeolites in H2. (133) (c) Left, schematic illustration of transformation between single Pt atoms and small Pt clusters under different conditions; (146) Right, schematic illustration of the migration of In, Zn, Cr, and Zr on HZSM-5 during CO2 hydrogenation reaction. (150) Adapted with permission from refs (118), (133), (146), and (150). Copyright 2016 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society, Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society, and Copyright 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
3.3. Metal Hydrides
Surface hydrides have been reported over the past several decades but are difficult to identify owing to their complexity and instability. (126,127) Zeolites possess a well-defined structure, which is beneficial to clarify the evolution process of metal to metal hydrides. In recent years, several studies reported that metal species inside zeolites could transform into metal hydrides, which could act as the active sites for various catalytic reactions, e.g., alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocarbon dehydroaromatization. For instance, there are many kinds of Ga species in the Ga-zeolites, such as GaxOy, Ga+, [GaO]+, [GaH2]+, [Ga(OH)2]+, [GaH(OH)]+, and [GaH]2+. (128) Under the H2 atmosphere at high temperature, the oxidized Ga species can be transformed to GaHx. (129−135)In situ FTIR experiments demonstrated that the Ga species variation could replace the acidic proton sites (BAS) of zeolite and subsequently formed Ga monohydride and Ga dihydride during H2 reduction. (129,130) Later, Bell and co-workers characterized the isolated Ga3+ cations in Ga/HZSM-5 zeolites under oxidizing and reducing conditions by XAS measurements, revealing the presence of [Ga(OH)2]+ or [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs in oxidizing conditions and [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs, [GaH2]+-H+, and [GaH]2+ in H2 atomosphere. (133) Theoretical calculations demonstrated that the type of Ga species on Ga-zeolites was strongly dependent on the pretreatment conditions and the location (next-nearest neighbor (NNN) and next-next-nearest neighbor (NNNN) framework Al atoms) (Figure 5b): In the conditions of H2O pressure of 10 Pa and H2 partial pressure <102 Pa for all the temperatures, [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs in NNNN sites are the most stable structure. When the temperature was higher than 623 K, [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs in NNN sites would transform to [Ga(OH)]2+. When the H2 partial pressure is in the range of 103–105 Pa with 10 Pa H2O, [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs in NNNN sites would undergo further hydrogenation to form [Ga(OH)H]+–H+ pairs. At the H2 pressure of >105 Pa and temperature of >673 K, [GaH2]+–H+ pairs would be formed from [Ga(OH)H]+–H+ pairs in NNNN sites. For Ga species at NNN sites, at temperature of <623 K and H2 pressure of >102 Pa, [Ga(OH)2]+-H+ cation pairs would convert to [Ga(OH)H]+-H+ pairs. When the temperature is higher than 623 K, these cations would transform to [GaH2]+ species. In different reactions and reaction periods, the various active sites of Ga-zeolites, for example, framework Ga species, tetrahedrally coordinated extra-framework Ga sites, and [GaH2]+, are demonstrated active for ethylene dehydroaromatization, (128,136) and GaHx and Ga+-H+ pair sites are regarded as the active sites for alkane dehydrogenation. (131,132,134,135,137) Apart from GaHx, InHx and ZnHx in zeolites have been also reported during pretreatment in H2, which were proposed as the active sites for hydrocarbon transformation. (138−141)
3.4. Metal Migration
Metal leaching and sintering are inherent characteristics of supported metal catalysts, which would lead to catalyst deactivation during the catalytic reaction. Typically, the confinement of metal species within zeolites can improve the stability of metal sites. However, they still suffer from sintering at harsh reaction conditions, e.g., high temperature and reductive atmosphere. For a long time, the dynamic migration of metal species in zeolites has not been well understood owing to the complex structure of metal species and zeolites under practical reaction conditions. With the development of characterization techniques, great progress has been achieved over some metal-zeolites, e.g., Ag-MFI, (142) Pd/USY, (143,144) Pd-CHA, (145) Pt-CHA, (146) Pt-MCM-22, (147) PtSn@MFI, (148) Au/TS-1, (149) and metal oxides/HZSM-5. (150)
A typical example by Corma and co-workers reported that the Pt nanoparticles could be reversibly transformed to single atoms in high-silica CHA zeolite (Figure 5c, left). (146) By time-resolved X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) and in situ TEM techniques, the dynamic evolution of Pt species including the coordination environment and microtopography in CHA zeolites in different atmospheres and temperatures were obtained: Calcination in the air at 500 °C, Pt species with ∼3 Pt–O bonds at 2.01 Å and no Pt–Pt bonds could be observed in XAFS spectra, indicating the formation of isolated PtO3 units within the CHA zeolites. When the oxidized Pt-CHA was treated in H2 at the temperature of 25–400 °C, the Pt species would be gradually reduced to Pt clusters, as confirmed by a progressive decrease of the white line intensity at different temperatures. In particular, the onset temperature for Pt species reduction is lower than 100 °C, and the full reduction temperature is about 150 °C. After further oxidation of the reduced Pt-CHA, a progressive increase of the white line could be observed over the X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra, suggesting the transformation of Pt–Pt bonds to Pt–O bonds. To further identify the local structure of Pt species, in situ high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) experiments were performed. A progressive disappearance of the Pt nanoparticles could be observed after exposure of the H2-reduced Pt-CHA to O2 at 500 °C, suggesting the redispersion of the Pt clusters to atomically Pt species. This study demonstrates that the Pt species in the types of single atoms and clusters can be tuned reversibly by controlling the calcination conditions, i.e., temperature and atmosphere. Furthermore, different pretreated conditions (i.e., CO + O2, CO + H2O, NO + CO, and NO + H2) have been studied for Pt@MCM-22, showing similar trends to Pt-CHA. (147) Under reductive atmosphere (CO + O2 and CO + H2O), atomically dispersed Pt would aggregate into Pt clusters at the temperature of 100–300 °C. In an oxidative atmosphere (NO + CO and NO + H2), Pt clusters would disperse into atomically Pt species at the temperature of 200–400 °C. These results suggest that the Pt species are strongly sensitive to the reactants and conditions. Therefore, the actual active sites of metal-zeolites should be globally and dynamically considered involving the reactant atmosphere and temperature.
Furthermore, the migration of metal oxides can be observed in oxide-zeolite system (metal oxide supported on zeolites). Recently, Wang and co-workers reported that the migration of metal oxides (In2O3, ZnO, Cr2O3, and ZrO2) on HZSM-5 zeolite could be observed by HAADF-STEM, elemental mapping, and pyridine-FTIR techniques, which could affect the CO2 hydrogenation performance (Figure 5c, right). (150) HAADF-STEM and elemental mapping revealed that the thermo-migration ability of metal species was strongly dependent on the metal species. A large amount of In and Zn species could be detected in HZSM-5 after CO2 hydrogenation reaction, while almost no Cr and Zr species could be detected. Acidity characterizations (pyridine-FTIR and ammonia-temperature-programmed desorption (NH3-TPD)) demonstrated that the In and Zn species could be easily migrated to the acidic proton sites of HZSM-5 via a solid ion-exchange mechanism, decreasing the acidity of HZSM-5. Therefore, In2O3/HZSM-5 and ZnO/HZSM-5 exhibited much lower catalytic stability than Cr2O3/HZSM-5 and ZrO2/HZSM-5 in CO2 hydrogenation. The migration of metal oxides in zeolites is a common phenomenon for oxide-zeolites, but it is complex and has multiple pathways. Therefore, more systematic and quantitative experiments should be performed to determine the mechanism and driving force of the migration process of active metal species in zeolites.
4. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
Herein, we review the dynamic evolution of the zeolite framework and metal-zeolite interface under various conditions (e.g., temperature, atmosphere, and partial pressure), uncovering some fundamental features about the active sites and catalytic mechanisms. We clarify the interactions between H2O and zeolite framework and reveal the reversible and irreversible hydrothermal procedure. Further, we note that the number of H2O molecules can significantly affect the T–O–T bond breaking and formation mechanisms. Furthermore, the type, composition, and topological structure of zeolites can affect the interactions between H2O and zeolites and thereby affect the properties of zeolites. For metal-zeolites, the dynamic evolution of metal sites in zeolites is strongly dependent on the types of metal species and redox properties of the reactants. The evolution of valence states and migration of metals can be reversibly realized by controlling the oxidizing and reducing atmosphere. Besides, metal carbides and hydrides could be formed upon introducing hydrocarbons and hydrogen at a certain temperature. These controllable dynamical evolutions of the zeolite framework and metal-zeolite interface can be used as the approaches for zeolite modification and application. However, understandings about the dynamic evolution of framework and extra-framework atoms of zeolites are still scarce and far from complete and in-depth. It is necessary to exploit more experiments to make clear the dynamic evolution processes and synergetic effect of the framework and foreign metals including the location, dispersion mode, identification and evolution of active sites, and the formation and role of intermediates. In Figure 6, we propose three future research directions, including characterization, mechanism, and application.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Future research directions about the dynamic evolution of zeolites and metal-zeolites.
4.1. Structure under Real Reaction Conditions
In the past, zeolites and metal-zeolites are usually characterized in static conditions. However, fast bond breaking and formation, evolution of metal valence states, phase transformation, and migration would occur over the zeolites and metal-zeolites during the catalytic reaction. Therefore, the identification of active sites and catalytic mechanisms should globally consider the evolution of zeolites and metal species under reaction conditions.
In recent years, many in situ and operando techniques have been exploited for the characterization of zeolite-based catalysts, which can give some credible information about the dynamic evolution of the zeolite framework and metal-zeolite interface. For instance, time-resolved Rietveld refinement of XRD and NMR have been used to reveal the type of Al species and the evolution of the zeolite crystallinity. (151−153) However, some zeolites and metal-zeolites contain only a small amount of metal species, which cannot be detected by XRD and NMR techniques. Therefore, more sensitive characterizations should be performed to distinguish these metal species. Recently, in situ XAS is used to characterize single metal atoms within zeolites, which can give information about the valence state, coordination number, and microstructure of framework and metal sites in zeolites, e.g., Al (three-coordinate, tetrahedral, and octahedral Al species), (154,155) Cu (Cu+ ↔ Cu2+), (108) and Mo (Mo6+ ↔ MoOxCy ↔ Mo2C) species. (118) Also, 3D-TEM together with Xe-NMR have been used to study the dealumination process of faujasite (FAU) type zeolites, revealing the mesopore formation started by removing framework T atoms from sodalite cages. (71) However, the application of XAS and TEM techniques have some limitations, such as the difficulty in distinguishing the second core–shell atoms and light elements. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is used to monitor the evolution of hydroxy groups and probe molecules (e.g., pyridine, acetonitrile, and carbon monoxide) adsorbed onto zeolites, giving some important information about the structure and acidity of zeolites and metal-zeolites. (156,157) However, the interactions between H2O and zeolites are hard to identify by FTIR because of the presence of complex hydrogen-bonding networks between Si–OH, Al–OH, and H2O molecules. Besides, the FTIR experiments are usually performed at low temperature and diluted reaction atmosphere, which cannot reflect the nature of the active sites under reaction conditions. The development of more efficient and sensitive characterization techniques that are applicable at reaction conditions is very necessary. Apart from the in situ and operando approaches, the dynamic evolution process can be illustrated by rational design ex situ experiments, such as isotope labeling tests, (94,108,158) half-reactions with only one reactant, (108,159) and kinetic measurements. (160) Furthermore, theoretical calculations (i.e., AIMD) can be used to simulate the dynamic evolution of zeolite framework at picosecond scale. (50) Therefore, multiple techniques and theoretical calculations should be synchronously performed to identify the active sites and reveal the catalytic mechanism of zeolites and metal-zeolites.
4.2. Dynamic Mechanism of the Active Sites in Zeolites
Some dynamic procedures of framework atoms and foreign metals in zeolites are complex and very fast, which are difficult to be captured and identified. With the development of characterization techniques and theoretical calculations, some progress has been achieved step by step. Typically, the T–O–T bonds reversible/irreversible breaking and formation, demetalization mechanism, and the dynamic evolutions of foreign metals in zeolites have been illustrated in recent years. However, still many issues call for the solution (e.g., the precise location, number, kind, and structure of the framework atoms and foreign metals under reaction conditions). Furthermore, the complexity and variability of reaction mechanisms and pathways caused by the dynamic evolution of reaction active sites make research more challenging and require more advanced, sensitive, and dynamic techniques. Therefore, more efficient time-resolved and space-resolved approaches should be developed, and these advanced technologies should be applied to track the dynamic process of active centers and their catalytic roles in zeolite/metal-zeolite catalyzed reactions.
4.3. Taking Full Advantage of the Dynamic Nature of Zeolites and Metal-Zeolites
The hydrothermal process is crucial for both the construction of zeolite crystals and the converse process of degrading zeolite framework in a hydrothermal atmosphere for optimized distribution of acid sites and improved mass transfer. Over the past several years, H2O vapor and steam have been used for zeolite modification (e.g., dealumination, desilication, and pore formation), improving the stability and diffusion properties of guest molecules. However, most studies are focused on the irreversible breaking of T–O–T bonds, mainly including zeolite destruction, collapse, and amorphization. The reversible evolution properties of zeolites are often overlooked. Recently, our work demonstrated that the reversible breaking and formation of T–O–T bonds of SAPO-34 could be used to introduce large molecules into small pore cages (ship-in-bottle strategy), thereby realizing acid sites recognition and MTO process adjusting. (48) These new strategies can be further promoted and applied. More creative, systematic, and reliable experiments and attempts are highly required to take full advantage of the dynamic evolution properties of zeolites in practical reactions.
For metal-zeolites, the dynamic evolution of metal species in zeolites has drawn particular attention in recent years, in which the varied active sites can accelerate the reactant activations or participate in the whole catalytic cycle. For example, the chemical looping process is introduced into some metal-zeolites (e.g., Mo/ZSM-5 and Fe-ZSM-5) for methane dehydroaromatization, which can improve activity and efficiency. In these processes, the Mo and Fe species can be dynamically interconverted from metal oxides to metal oxycarbidic and carbide counterparts. Owing to the participation of the lattice oxygen rather than oxygen molecule during the catalytic reaction, the energy consumption can be reduced. However, the metal-zeolites which are suitable for the operation mode of chemical looping process are limited, and the principles and mechanisms are still under debate.
In view of the current research of zeolite materials and catalysis, future studies are suggested to focus on the following aspects to realize some meaningful achievements: (i) developing in situ/operando spectroscopy techniques to make clear the dynamic nature of active sites and catalytic processes; (ii) making good use of the dynamic evolution property of zeolites and metal-zeolites for catalyst design, synthesis, modifications, and applications; and (iii) on the basis of the dynamic nature of catalytic materials and their roles in some important industrial process, developing dynamic modulation strategies to realize precise control and optimization of the zeolite materials and zeolite-catalyzed processes.
Author Information
Corresponding Authors
Yingxu Wei - National Engineering Laboratory for Methanol to Olefins, Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, iChEM (Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials), Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, People’s Republic of China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0412-1980;  Email: weiyx@dicp.ac.cn
Zhongmin Liu - National Engineering Laboratory for Methanol to Olefins, Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, iChEM (Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials), Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, People’s Republic of China;  State Key Laboratory of Catalysis, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, People’s Republic of China;  University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People’s Republic of China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7999-2940;  Email: liuzm@dicp.ac.cn
Authors
Zhong-Pan Hu - National Engineering Laboratory for Methanol to Olefins, Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, iChEM (Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials), Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, People’s Republic of China
Jingfeng Han - National Engineering Laboratory for Methanol to Olefins, Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, iChEM (Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials), Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, People’s Republic of China
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
The authors are thankful for the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 22172166, 21991092 and 21991090), the Key Research Program of Frontier Sciences, CAS, Grant No. QYZDY-SSW-JSC024, the International Partnership Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences (121421KYSB20180007), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2019M661147), the Excellent Postdoctoral Support Program of Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, CAS, the Excellent Research Assistant Funding Project of CAS, and the Youth Innovation Promotion Association of CAS (No. 2021182).
References
This article references 160 other publications.
1Vogt, E. T. C.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Fluid Catalytic Cracking: Recent Developments on the Grand Old Lady of Zeolite Catalysis. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2015, 44 (20), 7342– 7370,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CS00376H
Google Scholar
2Zhu, D.; Wang, L.; Fan, D.; Yan, N.; Huang, S.; Xu, S.; Guo, P.; Yang, M.; Zhang, J.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. A Bottom-Up Strategy for the Synthesis of Highly Siliceous Faujasite-Type Zeolite. Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, 2000272  DOI: 10.1002/adma.202000272
Google Scholar
3Tian, P.; Wei, Y.; Ye, M.; Liu, Z. Methanol to Olefins (MTO): From Fundamentals to Commercialization. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 1922– 1938,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00007
Google Scholar
4Ye, M.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. DMTO: A Sustainable Methanol-to-Olefins Technology. Engineering 2021, 7, 17– 21,  DOI: 10.1016/j.eng.2020.12.001
Google Scholar
5Wu, X.; Xu, S.; Zhang, W.; Huang, J.; Li, J.; Yu, B.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Direct Mechanism of the First Carbon-Carbon Bond Formation in the Methanol-to-Hydrocarbons Process. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 9039– 9043,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201703902
Google Scholar
6Sun, T.; Chen, W.; Xu, S.; Zheng, A.; Wu, X.; Zeng, S.; Wang, N.; Meng, X.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. The First Carbon-carbon Bond Formation Mechanism in Methanol-to-hydrocarbons Process over Chabazite Zeolite. Chem. 2021, 7, 2415– 2428,  DOI: 10.1016/j.chempr.2021.05.023
Google Scholar
7Cao, K.; Fan, D.; Li, L.; Fan, B.; Wang, L.; Zhu, D.; Wang, Q.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. Insights into the Pyridine-Modified MOR Zeolite Catalysts for DME Carbonylation. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 3372– 3380,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b04890
Google Scholar
8Gerald, O. Debut of a Coal-to-ethanol Plant. Chem. Eng. 2017, 124, 12
Google Scholar
9Liu, R.; Fan, B.; Zhang, W.; Wang, L.; Qi, L.; Wang, Y.; Xu, S.; Yu, Z.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Increasing the Number of Aluminum Atoms in T3 Sites of a Mordenite Zeolite by Low-Pressure SiCl4 Treatment to Catalyze Dimethyl Ether Carbonylation. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022,  DOI: 10.1002/ange.202116990
Google Scholar
10Wei, C.; Yu, Q.; Li, J.; Liu, Z. Coupling Conversion of n-Hexane and CO over an HZSM-5 Zeolite: Tuning the H/C Balance and Achieving High Aromatic Selectivity. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 4171– 4180,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b05619
Google Scholar
11Wei, C.; Li, J.; Yang, K.; Yu, Q.; Zeng, S.; Liu, Z. Aromatization Mechanism of Coupling reaction of Light Alkanes with CO over Acidic Zeolites: Cyclopentenones as Key Intermediates. Chem. Catal 2021, 1, 1273– 1290,  DOI: 10.1016/j.checat.2021.09.004
Google Scholar
12Chen, Z.; Ni, Y.; Zhi, Y.; Wen, F.; Zhou, Z.; Wei, Y.; Zhu, W.; Liu, Z. Coupling of Methanol and Carbon Monoxide over H-ZSM-5 to Form Aromatics. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 12549– 12553,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201807814
Google Scholar
13Fang, X.; Liu, H.; Chen, Z.; Liu, Z.; Ding, X.; Ni, Y.; Zhu, W.; Liu, Z. Highly Enhanced Aromatics Selectivity by Coupling of Chloromethane and Carbon Monoxide over H-ZSM-5. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202114953
Google Scholar
14Zhong, J.; Han, J.; Wei, Y.; Tian, P.; Guo, X.; Song, C.; Liu, Z. Recent Advances of the Nano-hierarchical SAPO-34 in the Methanol-to-olefin (MTO) Reaction and Other Applications. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2017, 7, 4905– 1923,  DOI: 10.1039/C7CY01466J
Google Scholar
15Yang, M.; Fan, D.; Wei, Y.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. Recent Progress in Methanol-to-Olefins (MTO) Catalysts. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1902181  DOI: 10.1002/adma.201902181
Google Scholar
16Shamzhy, M.; Opanasenko, M.; Concepcion, P.; Martinez, A. New Trends in Tailoring Active Sites in Zeolite-based Catalysts. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2019, 48, 1095– 1149,  DOI: 10.1039/C8CS00887F
Google Scholar
17Wang, N.; Sun, Q.; Yu, J. Ultrasmall Metal Nanoparticles Confined within Crystalline Nanoporous Materials: A Fascinating Class of Nanocatalysts. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1803966  DOI: 10.1002/adma.201803966
Google Scholar
18Chai, Y.; Wu, G.; Liu, X.; Ren, Y.; Dai, W.; Wang, C.; Xie, Z.; Guan, N.; Li, L. Acetylene-Selective Hydrogenation Catalyzed by Cationic Nickel Confined in Zeolite. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 9920– 9927,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b03361
Google Scholar
19Zhong, J.; Han, J.; Wei, Y.; Xu, S.; He, Y.; Zheng, Y.; Ye, M.; Guo, X.; Song, C.; Liu, Z. Increasing the Selectivity to Ethylene in the MTO Reaction by Enhancing Diffusion Limitation in the Shell Layer of SAPO-34 Catalyst. Chem. Commun. 2018, 54, 3146– 3149,  DOI: 10.1039/C7CC09239C
Google Scholar
20Zhong, J.; Han, J.; Wei, Y.; Xu, S.; Sun, T.; Zeng, S.; Guo, X.; Song, C.; Liu, Z. Tuning the Product Selectivity of SAPO-18 Catalysts in MTO Reaction via Cavity Modification. Chin. J. Catal. 2019, 40, 477– 485,  DOI: 10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63281-X
Google Scholar
21Yang, M.; Li, B.; Gao, M.; Lin, S.; Wang, Y.; Xu, S.; Zhao, X.; Guo, P.; Wei, Y.; Ye, M.; Tian, P.; Liu, Z. High Propylene Selectivity in Methanol Conversion over a Small-Pore SAPO Molecular Sieve with Ultra-Small Cage. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 3741– 3749,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b04703
Google Scholar
22Han, J.; Liu, Z.; Li, H.; Zhong, J.; Zhang, W.; Huang, J.; Zheng, A.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Simultaneous Evaluation of Reaction and Diffusion over Molecular Sieves for Shape-Selective Catalysis. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 8727– 8735,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c02054
Google Scholar
23Zhang, W.; Chen, J.; Xu, S.; Chu, Y.; Wei, Y.; Zhi, Y.; Huang, J.; Zheng, A.; Wu, X.; Meng, X.; Xiao, F.; Deng, F.; Liu, Z. Methanol to Olefins Reaction over Cavity-type Zeolite: Cavity Controls the Critical Intermediates and Product Selectivity. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 10950– 10963,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b02164
Google Scholar
24Wu, X.; Xu, S.; Wei, Y.; Zhang, W.; Huang, J.; Xu, S.; He, Y.; Lin, S.; Sun, T.; Liu, Z. Evolution of C–C Bond Formation in the Methanol-to-Olefins Process: From Direct Coupling to Autocatalysis. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 7356– 7361,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b02385
Google Scholar
25Lin, S.; Zhi, Y.; Chen, W.; Li, H.; Zhang, W.; Lou, C.; Wu, X.; Zeng, S.; Xu, S.; Xiao, J.; Zheng, A.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Molecular Routes of Dynamic Autocatalysis for Methanol-to-Hydrocarbons Reaction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 12038– 12052,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c03475
Google Scholar
26Lin, L.; Sheveleva, A. M.; da Silva, I.; Parlett, C. M. A.; Tang, Z.; Liu, Y.; Fan, M.; Han, X.; Carter, J. H.; Tuna, F.; McInnes, E. J. L.; Cheng, Y.; Daemen, L. L.; Rudić, S.; Ramirez-Cuesta, A. J.; Tang, C. C.; Yang, S. Quantitative Production of Butenes from Biomass-derived γ-valerolactone Catalysed by Hetero-atomic MFI Zeolite. Nat. Mater. 2020, 19, 86– 93,  DOI: 10.1038/s41563-019-0562-6
Google Scholar
27Gao, P.; Wang, Q.; Xu, J.; Qi, G.; Wang, C.; Zhou, X.; Zhao, X.; Feng, N.; Liu, X.; Deng, F. Brønsted/Lewis Acid Synergy in Methanol-to-Aromatics Conversion on Ga-Modified ZSM-5 Zeolites, As Studied by Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 69– 74,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b03211
Google Scholar
28Heard, C. J.; Grajciar, L.; Rice, C. M.; Pugh, S. M.; Nachtigall, P.; Ashbrook, S. E.; Morris, R. E. Fast Room Temperature Lability of Aluminosilicate Zeolites. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4690,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-12752-y
Google Scholar
29Pugh, S. M.; Wright, P. A.; Law, D. J.; Thompson, N.; Ashbrook, S. E. Facile, Room-Temperature 17O Enrichment of Zeolite Frameworks Revealed by Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 900– 906,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b10528
Google Scholar
30Wouters, B. H.; Chen, T.-H.; Grobet, P. J. Reversible Tetrahedral-Octahedral Framework Aluminum Transformation in Zeolite Y. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 11419– 11425,  DOI: 10.1021/ja982082l
Google Scholar
31Heard, C. J.; Grajciar, L.; Uhlik, F.; Shamzhy, M.; Opanasenko, M.; Cejka, J.; Nachtigall, P. Zeolite (In)Stability under Aqueous or Steaming Conditions. Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, 2003264  DOI: 10.1002/adma.202003264
Google Scholar
32Simancas, R.; Chokkalingam, A.; Elangovan, S. P.; Liu, Z.; Sano, T.; Iyoki, K.; Wakihara, T.; Okubo, T. Recent Progress in the Improvement of Hydrothermal Stability of Zeolites. Chem. Sci. 2021, 12, 7677– 7695,  DOI: 10.1039/D1SC01179K
Google Scholar
33Zhao, X.; Li, J.; Tian, P.; Wang, L.; Li, X.; Lin, S.; Guo, X.; Liu, Z. Achieving a Superlong Lifetime in the Zeolite-Catalyzed MTO Reaction under High Pressure: Synergistic Effect of Hydrogen and Water. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 3017– 3025,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b04402
Google Scholar
34Zhou, J.; Gao, M.; Zhang, J.; Liu, W.; Zhang, T.; Li, H.; Xu, Z.; Ye, M.; Liu, Z. Directed Transforming of Coke to Active Intermediates in Methanol-to-olefins Catalyst to Boost Light Olefins Selectivity. Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 17,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-20193-1
Google Scholar
35Zhang, L.; Chen, K.; Chen, B.; White, J. L.; Resasco, D. E. Factors that Determine Zeolite Stability in Hot Liquid Water. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 11810– 11819,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b07398
Google Scholar
36Aramburo, L. R.; Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Sommer, L.; Arstad, B.; Buitrago-Sierra, R.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Zandbergen, H. W.; Olsbye, U.; de Groot, F. M. F.; Weckhuysen, B. M. X-Ray Imaging of SAPO-34 Molecular Sieves at the Nanoscale: Influence of Steaming on the Methanol-to-Hydrocarbons Reaction. ChemCatChem. 2013, 5, 1386– 1394,  DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201200670
Google Scholar
37Bregante, D. T.; Chan, M. C.; Tan, J. Z.; Ayla, E. Z.; Nicholas, C. P.; Shukla, D.; Flaherty, D. W. The Shape of Water in Zeolites and Its Impact on Epoxidation Catalysis. Nat. Catal. 2021, 4, 797– 808,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-021-00672-4
Google Scholar
38Hack, J. H.; Dombrowski, J. P.; Ma, X.; Chen, Y.; Lewis, N. H. C.; Carpenter, W. B.; Li, C.; Voth, G. A.; Kung, H. H.; Tokmakoff, A. Structural Characterization of Protonated Water Clusters Confined in HZSM-5 Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 10203– 10213,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c03205
Google Scholar
39Kuo, I.-F. W.; Mundy, C. J. An ab Initio Molecular Dynamics Study of the Aqueous Liquid-Vapor Interface. Science 2004, 303, 658– 660,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1092787
Google Scholar
40Headrick, J. M.; Diken, E. G.; Walters, R. S.; Hammer, N. I.; Christie, R. A.; Cui, J.; Myshakin, E. M.; Duncan, M. A.; Johnson, M. A.; Jordan, K. D. Spectral Signatures of Hydrated Proton Vibrations in Water Clusters. Science 2005, 308, 1765– 1769,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1113094
Google Scholar
41Shin, J. W.; Hammer, N. I.; Diken, E. G.; Johnson, M. A.; Walters, R. S.; Jaeger, T. D.; Duncan, M. A.; Christie, R. A.; Jordan, K. D. Infrared Signature of Structures Associated with the H+(H2O)n (n = 6 to 27) Clusters. Science 2004, 304, 1137– 1140,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1096466
Google Scholar
42Heard, C. J.; Grajciar, L.; Nachtigall, P. The Effect of Water on the Validity of Lowenstein’s Rule. Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 5705– 5711,  DOI: 10.1039/C9SC00725C
Google Scholar
43Santoro, M.; Veremeienko, V.; Polisi, M.; Fantini, R.; Alabarse, F.; Arletti, R.; Quatieri, S.; Svitlyk, V.; van der Lee, A.; Rouquette, J.; Alonso, B.; Di Renzo, F.; Coasne, B.; Haines, J. Insertion and Confinement of H2O in Hydrophobic Siliceous Zeolites at High Pressure. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 17432– 17439,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04860
Google Scholar
44Ashbrook, S. E.; Davis, Z. H.; Morris, R. E.; Rice, C. M. 17O NMR Spectroscopy of Crystalline Microporous Materials. Chem. Sci. 2021, 12, 5016– 5036,  DOI: 10.1039/D1SC00552A
Google Scholar
45Huhn, C.; Erlebach, A.; Mey, D.; Wondraczek, L.; Sierka, M. Ab Initio Energetics of Si-O Bond Cleavage. J. Comput. Chem. 2017, 38, 2349– 2353,  DOI: 10.1002/jcc.24892
Google Scholar
46Cypryk, M.; Apeloig, Y. Mechanism of the Acid-Catalyzed Si-O Bond Cleavage in Siloxanes and Siloxanols. A Theoretical Study. Organometallics 2002, 21, 2165– 2175,  DOI: 10.1021/om011055s
Google Scholar
47Sun, J.; Fang, H.; Ravikovitch, P. I.; Sholl, D. S. Understanding Dealumination Mechanisms in Protonic and Cationic Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. C 2020, 124, 668– 676,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b09693
Google Scholar
48Sun, T.; Xu, S.; Xiao, D.; Liu, Z.; Li, G.; Zheng, A.; Liu, W.; Xu, Z.; Cao, Y.; Guo, Q.; Wang, N.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z. Water-Induced Structural Dynamic Process in Molecular Sieves under Mild Hydrothermal Conditions: Ship-in-a-Bottle Strategy for Acidity Identification and Catalyst Modification. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 20672– 20681,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202009648
Google Scholar
49Yang, L.; Wang, C.; Zhang, L.; Dai, W.; Chu, Y.; Xu, J.; Wu, G.; Gao, M.; Liu, W.; Xu, Z.; Wang, P.; Guan, N.; Dyballa, M.; Ye, M.; Deng, F.; Fan, W.; Li, L. Stabilizing the Framework of SAPO-34 Zeolite toward Long-term Methanol-to-olefins Conversion. Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4661,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-24403-2
Google Scholar
50Li, G.; Foo, C.; Yi, X.; Chen, W.; Zhao, P.; Gao, P.; Yoskamtorn, T.; Xiao, Y.; Day, S.; Tang, C. C.; Hou, G.; Zheng, A.; Tsang, S. C. E. Induced Active Sites by Adsorbate in Zeotype Materials. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 8761– 8771,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c03166
Google Scholar
51Chen, W.; Han, J.; Wei, Y.; Zheng, A. Frustrated Lewis Pair in Zeolite Cages for Alkane Activations. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202116269
Google Scholar
52Bellussi, G.; Carati, A.; Clerici, M. G.; Maddinelli, G.; Millini, R. Reaction of Titanium Silicalite with Protic Molecules and Hydrogen Peroxide. J. Catal. 1992, 133, 220– 230,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(92)90199-R
Google Scholar
53Notari, B. Titanium Silicalites. Catal. Today 1993, 18, 163– 172,  DOI: 10.1016/0920-5861(93)85029-Y
Google Scholar
54To, J.; Sokol, A. A.; French, S. A.; Catlow, C. R. A. Formation of Active Sites in TS-1 by Hydrolysis and Inversion. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 14720– 14731,  DOI: 10.1021/jp074088f
Google Scholar
55Qi, G.; Wang, Q.; Xu, J.; Wu, Q.; Wang, C.; Zhao, X.; Meng, X.; Xiao, F.; Deng, F. Direct Observation of Tin Sites and Their Reversible Interconversion in Zeolites by Solid-state NMR Spectroscopy. Commun. Chem. 2018, 1, 22,  DOI: 10.1038/s42004-018-0023-1
Google Scholar
56Ravi, M.; Sushkevich, V. L.; van Bokhoven, J. A. Towards a Better Understanding of Lewis Acidic Aluminium in Zeolites. Nat. Mater. 2020, 19, 1047– 1056,  DOI: 10.1038/s41563-020-0751-3
Google Scholar
57Stanciakova, K.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Water–active Site Interactions in Zeolites and Their Relevance in Catalysis. Trends Chem. 2021, 3, 456– 468,  DOI: 10.1016/j.trechm.2021.03.004
Google Scholar
58Resasco, D. E.; Crossley, S. P.; Wang, B.; White, J. L. Interaction of Water with Zeolites: A Review. Catal. Rev. 2021, 63, 302– 362,  DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2021.1948301
Google Scholar
59Ravenelle, R. M.; Schüβler, F.; D’Amico, A.; Danilina, N.; van Bokhoven, J. A.; Lercher, J. A.; Jones, C. W.; Sievers, C. Stability of Zeolites in Hot Liquid Water. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 19582– 19595,  DOI: 10.1021/jp104639e
Google Scholar
60Zhai, D.; Zhao, L.; Liu, Y.; Xu, J.; Shen, B.; Gao, J. Dissolution and Absorption: A Molecular Mechanism of Mesopore Formation in Alkaline Treatment of Zeolite. Chem. Mater. 2015, 27, 67– 74,  DOI: 10.1021/cm503151k
Google Scholar
61Malola, S.; Svelle, S.; Bleken, F. L.; Swang, O. Detailed Reaction Paths for Zeolite Dealumination and Desilication from Density Functional Calculations. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 652– 655,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201104462
Google Scholar
62Nielsen, M.; Brogaard, R. Y.; Falsig, H.; Beato, P.; Swang, O.; Svelle, S. Kinetics of Zeolite Dealumination: Insights from H-SSZ-13. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 7131– 7139,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01496
Google Scholar
63Silaghi, M.-C.; Chizallet, C.; Petracovschi, E.; Kerber, T.; Sauer, J.; Raybaud, P. Regioselectivity of Al–O Bond Hydrolysis during Zeolites Dealumination Unified by Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi Relationship. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 11– 15,  DOI: 10.1021/cs501474u
Google Scholar
64Silaghi, M.-C.; Chizallet, C.; Sauer, J.; Raybaud, P. Dealumination Mechanisms of Zeolites and Extra-framework Aluminum Confinement. J. Catal. 2016, 339, 242– 255,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2016.04.021
Google Scholar
65Liu, P.; Liu, Q.; Mei, D. Dealumination of the H-BEA Zeolite via the SN2 Mechanism: A Theoretical Investigation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 24613– 24621,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c06847
Google Scholar
66Chen, K.; Horstmeier, S.; Nguyen, V. T.; Wang, B.; Crossley, S. P.; Pham, T.; Gan, Z.; Hung, I.; White, J. L. Structure and Catalytic Characterization of a Second Framework Al(IV) Site in Zeolite Catalysts Revealed by NMR at 35.2 T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 7514– 7523,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c00590
Google Scholar
67Chen, K.; Gan, Z.; Horstmeier, S.; White, J. L. Distribution of Aluminum Species in Zeolite Catalysts: 27Al NMR of Framework, Partially-Coordinated Framework, and Non-Framework Moieties. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 6669– 6680,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.1c02361
Google Scholar
68Stanciakova, K.; Ensing, B.; Göltl, F.; Bulo, R. E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Cooperative Role of Water Molecules during the Initial Stage of Water-Induced Zeolite Dealumination. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 5119– 5135,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b00307
Google Scholar
69Nielsen, M.; Hafreager, A.; Brogaard, R. Y.; De Wispelaere, K.; Falsig, H.; Beato, P.; Van Speybroeck, V.; Svelle, S. Collective Action of Water Molecules in Zeolite Dealumination. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2019, 9, 3721– 3725,  DOI: 10.1039/C9CY00624A
Google Scholar
70Zhou, T.; Bai, P.; Siepmann, J. I.; Clark, A. E. Deconstructing the Confinement Effect upon the Organization and Dynamics of Water in Hydrophobic Nanoporous Materials: Lessons Learned from Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017, 121, 22015– 22024,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b04991
Google Scholar
71Qin, Z.; Zeng, S.; Melinte, G.; Bucko, T.; Badawi, M.; Shen, Y.; Gilson, J. P.; Ersen, O.; Wei, Y.; Liu, Z.; Liu, X.; Yan, Z.; Xu, S.; Valtchev, V.; Mintova, S. Understanding the Fundamentals of Microporosity Upgrading in Zeolites: Increasing Diffusion and Catalytic Performances. Adv. Sci. 2021, 8, 2100001  DOI: 10.1002/advs.202100001
Google Scholar
72Smith, L.; Cheetham, A. K.; Morris, R. E.; Marchese, L.; Thomas, J. M.; Wright, P. A.; Chen, J. On the Nature of Water Bound to a Solid Acid Catalyst. Science 1996, 271, 799– 802,  DOI: 10.1126/science.271.5250.799
Google Scholar
73Termath, V.; Haase, F.; Sauer, J.; Hutter, J.; Parrinello, M. Understanding the Nature of Water Bound to Solid Acid Surfaces. Ab Initio Simulation on HSAPO-34. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 8512– 8516,  DOI: 10.1021/ja981549p
Google Scholar
74Fjermestad, T.; Svelle, S.; Swang, O. Mechanistic Comparison of the Dealumination in SSZ-13 and the Desilication in SAPO-34. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 13442– 13451,  DOI: 10.1021/jp4028468
Google Scholar
75Fjermestad, T.; Svelle, S.; Swang, O. Desilication of SAPO-34: Reaction Mechanisms from Periodic DFT Calculations. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015, 119, 2073– 2085,  DOI: 10.1021/jp510844v
Google Scholar
76Fjermestad, T.; Svelle, S.; Swang, O. Mechanism of Si Island Formation in SAPO-34. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015, 119, 2086– 2095,  DOI: 10.1021/jp510845z
Google Scholar
77Kalantzopoulos, G. N.; Lundvall, F.; Thorshaug, K.; Lind, A.; Vajeeston, P.; Dovgaliuk, I.; Arstad, B.; Wragg, D. S.; Fjellvåg, H. Factors Determining Microporous Material Stability in Water: The Curious Case of SAPO-37. Chem. Mater. 2020, 32, 1495– 1505,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b04510
Google Scholar
78Ferrini, P.; Dijkmans, J.; De Clercq, R.; Van de Vyver, S.; Dusselier, M.; Jacobs, P. A.; Sels, B. F. Lewis Acid Catalysis on Single Site Sn Centers Incorporated into Silica Hosts. Coord. Chem. Rev. 2017, 343, 220– 255,  DOI: 10.1016/j.ccr.2017.05.010
Google Scholar
79Wolf, P.; Valla, M.; Núñez-Zarur, F.; Comas-Vives, A.; Rossini, A. J.; Firth, C.; Kallas, H.; Lesage, A.; Emsley, L.; Copéret, C.; Hermans, I. Correlating Synthetic Methods, Morphology, Atomic-Level Structure, and Catalytic Activity of Sn-β Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 4047– 4063,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.6b00114
Google Scholar
80Sushkevich, V. L.; Kots, P. A.; Kolyagin, Y. G.; Yakimov, A. V.; Marikutsa, A. V.; Ivanova, I. I. Origin of Water-Induced Brønsted Acid Sites in Sn-BEA Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 5540– 5548,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b12462
Google Scholar
81Yakimov, A. V.; Kolyagin, Y. G.; Tolborg, S.; Vennestrøm, P. N. R.; Ivanova, I. I. 119Sn MAS NMR Study of the Interaction of Probe Molecules with Sn-BEA: The Origin of Penta- and Hexacoordinated Tin Formation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 28083– 28092,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b09999
Google Scholar
82Jin, M.; Veselý, O.; Heard, C. J.; Kubů, M.; Nachtigall, P.; Čejka, J.; Grajciar, L. The Role of Water Loading and Germanium Content in Germanosilicate Hydrolysis. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 23744– 23757,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c06873
Google Scholar
83Del Campo, P.; Martinez, C.; Corma, A. Activation and Conversion of Alkanes in the Confined Space of Zeolite-type Materials. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 8511– 8595,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CS01459A
Google Scholar
84Snyder, B. E. R.; Bols, M. L.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Sels, B. F.; Solomon, E. I. Iron and Copper Active Sites in Zeolites and Their Correlation to Metalloenzymes. Chem. Rev. 2018, 118, 2718– 2768,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00344
Google Scholar
85Kiani, D.; Sourav, S.; Tang, Y.; Baltrusaitis, J.; Wachs, I. E. Methane Activation by ZSM-5-supported Transition Metal Centers. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 1251– 1268,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CS01016B
Google Scholar
86Paolucci, C.; Di Iorio, J. R.; Schneider, W. F.; Gounder, R. Solvation and Mobilization of Copper Active Sites in Zeolites by Ammonia: Consequences for the Catalytic Reduction of Nitrogen Oxides. Acc. Chem. Res. 2020, 53, 1881– 1892,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00328
Google Scholar
87Borfecchia, E.; Beato, P.; Svelle, S.; Olsbye, U.; Lamberti, C.; Bordiga, S. Cu-CHA - a Model System for Applied Selective Redox Catalysis. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2018, 47, 8097– 8133,  DOI: 10.1039/C8CS00373D
Google Scholar
88Tomkins, P.; Ranocchiari, M.; van Bokhoven, J. A. Direct Conversion of Methane to Methanol under Mild Conditions over Cu-Zeolites and beyond. Acc. Chem. Res. 2017, 50, 418– 425,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00534
Google Scholar
89Ravi, M.; Sushkevich, V. L.; Knorpp, A. J.; Newton, M. A.; Palagin, D.; Pinar, A. B.; Ranocchiari, M.; van Bokhoven, J. A. Misconceptions and Challenges in Methane-to-methanol over Transition-metal-exchanged Zeolites. Nat. Catal. 2019, 2, 485– 494,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-019-0273-z
Google Scholar
90Newton, M. A.; Knorpp, A. J.; Sushkevich, V. L.; Palagin, D.; van Bokhoven, J. A. Active Sites and Mechanisms in the Direct Conversion of Methane to Methanol using Cu in Zeolitic Hosts: A Critical Examination. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 1449– 1486,  DOI: 10.1039/C7CS00709D
Google Scholar
91Freakley, S. J.; Dimitratos, N.; Willock, D. J.; Taylor, S. H.; Kiely, C. J.; Hutchings, G. J. Methane Oxidation to Methanol in Water. Acc. Chem. Res. 2021, 54, 2614– 2623,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00129
Google Scholar
92Snyder, B. E.; Vanelderen, P.; Bols, M. L.; Hallaert, S. D.; Bottger, L. H.; Ungur, L.; Pierloot, K.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Sels, B. F.; Solomon, E. I. The Active Site of Low-temperature Methane Hydroxylation in Iron-containing Zeolites. Nature 2016, 536, 317– 321,  DOI: 10.1038/nature19059
Google Scholar
93Bols, M. L.; Snyder, B. E. R.; Rhoda, H. M.; Cnudde, P.; Fayad, G.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Van Speybroeck, V.; Solomon, E. I.; Sels, B. F. Coordination and Activation of Nitrous Oxide by Iron Zeolites. Nat. Catal. 2021, 4 (4), 332– 340,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-021-00602-4
Google Scholar
94Snyder, B. E. R.; Bols, M. L.; Rhoda, H. M.; Plessers, D.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Sels, B. F.; Solomon, E. I. Cage Effects Control the Mechanism of Methane Hydroxylation in Zeolites. Science 2021, 373, 327– 331,  DOI: 10.1126/science.abd5803
Google Scholar
95Scott, S. L. Bioinspired Methane Oxidation in a Zeolite. Science 2021, 373, 277– 278,  DOI: 10.1126/science.abj4734
Google Scholar
96Li, G.; Pidko, E. A.; van Santen, R. A.; Li, C.; Hensen, E. J. M. Stability of Extraframework Iron-Containing Complexes in ZSM-5 Zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 413– 426,  DOI: 10.1021/jp310374k
Google Scholar
97Szecsenyi, A.; Li, G.; Gascon, J.; Pidko, E. A. Mechanistic Complexity of Methane Oxidation with H2O2 by Single-Site Fe/ZSM-5 Catalyst. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 7961– 7972,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b01672
Google Scholar
98Szécsényi, Á.; Khramenkova, E.; Chernyshov, I. Y.; Li, G.; Gascon, J.; Pidko, E. A. Breaking Linear Scaling Relationships with Secondary Interactions in Confined Space: A Case Study of Methane Oxidation by Fe/ZSM-5 Zeolite. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 9276– 9284,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b01914
Google Scholar
99Li, G.; Pidko, E. A.; Filot, I. A. W.; van Santen, R. A.; Li, C.; Hensen, E. J. M. Catalytic Properties of Extraframework Iron-containing Species in ZSM-5 for N2O Decomposition. J. Catal. 2013, 308, 386– 397,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2013.08.010
Google Scholar
100Negri, C.; Signorile, M.; Porcaro, N. G.; Borfecchia, E.; Berlier, G.; Janssens, T. V. W.; Bordiga, S. Dynamic CuII/CuI Speciation in Cu-CHA Catalysts by in situ Diffuse Reflectance UV–vis-NIR Spectroscopy. Appl. Catal., A 2019, 578, 1– 9,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2019.03.018
Google Scholar
101Li, H.; Paolucci, C.; Khurana, I.; Wilcox, L. N.; Goltl, F.; Albarracin-Caballero, J. D.; Shih, A. J.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Gounder, R.; Schneider, W. F. Consequences of Exchange-site Heterogeneity and Dynamics on the UV-visible Spectrum of Cu-Exchanged SSZ-13. Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 2373– 2384,  DOI: 10.1039/C8SC05056B
Google Scholar
102Chen, P.; Khetan, A.; Jabłońska, M.; Simböck, J.; Muhler, M.; Palkovits, R.; Pitsch, H.; Simon, U. Local Dynamics of Copper Active Sites in Zeolite Catalysts for Selective Catalytic Reduction of NOx with NH3. Appl. Catal., B 2018, 237, 263– 272,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.05.091
Google Scholar
103Seiyama, T.; Arakawa, T.; Matsuda, T.; Takita, Y.; Yamazoe, N. Catalytic Activity of Transition Metal Ion Exchanged Y Zeolites in the Reduction of Nitric Oxide with Ammonia. J. Catal. 1977, 48, 1– 7,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(77)90072-0
Google Scholar
104Negri, C.; Selleri, T.; Borfecchia, E.; Martini, A.; Lomachenko, K. A.; Janssens, T. V. W.; Cutini, M.; Bordiga, S.; Berlier, G. Structure and Reactivity of Oxygen-Bridged Diamino Dicopper(II) Complexes in Cu-Ion-Exchanged Chabazite Catalyst for NH3-Mediated Selective Catalytic Reduction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 15884– 15896,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c06270
Google Scholar
105Paolucci, C.; Parekh, A. A.; Khurana, I.; Di Iorio, J. R.; Li, H.; Albarracin Caballero, J. D.; Shih, A. J.; Anggara, T.; Delgass, W. N.; Miller, J. T.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Gounder, R.; Schneider, W. F. Catalysis in a Cage: Condition-Dependent Speciation and Dynamics of Exchanged Cu Cations in SSZ-13 Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 6028– 6048,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b02651
Google Scholar
106Gramigni, F.; Nasello, N. D.; Usberti, N.; Iacobone, U.; Selleri, T.; Hu, W.; Liu, S.; Gao, X.; Nova, I.; Tronconi, E. Transient Kinetic Analysis of Low-Temperature NH3-SCR over Cu-CHA Catalysts Reveals a Quadratic Dependence of Cu Reduction Rates on CuII. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 4821– 4831,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c05362
Google Scholar
107Paolucci, C.; Khurana, I.; Parekh, A. A.; Li, S.; Shih, A. J.; Li, H.; Di Iorio, J. R.; Albarracin-Caballero, J. D.; Yezerets, A.; Miller, J. T.; Delgass, W. N.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Schneider, W. F.; Gounder, R. Dynamic Multinuclear Sites formed by Mobilized Copper Ions in NOx Selective Catalytic Reduction. Science 2017, 357, 898– 903,  DOI: 10.1126/science.aan5630
Google Scholar
108Sushkevich, V. L.; Palagin, D.; Ranocchiari, M.; van Bokhoven, J. A. Selective Anaerobic Oxidation of Methane Enables Direct Synthesis of Methanol. Science 2017, 356, 523– 527,  DOI: 10.1126/science.aam9035
Google Scholar
109Xu, R.; Liu, N.; Dai, C.; Li, Y.; Zhang, J.; Wu, B.; Yu, G.; Chen, B. H2O-Built Proton Transfer Bridge Enhances Continuous Methane Oxidation to Methanol over Cu-BEA Zeolite. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 16634– 16640,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202105167
Google Scholar
110Engedahl, U.; Grönbeck, H.; Hellman, A. First-Principles Study of Oxidation State and Coordination of Cu-Dimers in Cu-SSZ-13 during Methane-to-Methanol Reaction Conditions. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 26145– 26150,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07954
Google Scholar
111Göltl, F.; Bhandari, S.; Mavrikakis, M. Thermodynamics Perspective on the Stepwise Conversion of Methane to Methanol over Cu-Exchanged SSZ-13. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 7719– 7734,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c00691
Google Scholar
112Sun, L.; Wang, Y.; Wang, C.; Xie, Z.; Guan, N.; Li, L. Water-involved Methane-selective Catalytic Oxidation by Dioxygen over Copper Zeolites. Chem 2021, 7, 1557– 1568,  DOI: 10.1016/j.chempr.2021.02.026
Google Scholar
113Pan, X.; Jiao, F.; Miao, D.; Bao, X. Oxide-Zeolite-Based Composite Catalyst Concept That Enables Syngas Chemistry beyond Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis. Chem. Rev. 2021, 121, 6588– 6609,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c01012
Google Scholar
114Gao, J.; Zheng, Y.; Jehng, J.-M.; Tang, Y.; Wachs, I. E.; Podkolzin, S. G. Identification of Molybdenum Oxide Nanostructures on Zeolites for Natural Gas Conversion. Science 2015, 348, 686– 690,  DOI: 10.1126/science.aaa7048
Google Scholar
115Vollmer, I.; van der Linden, B.; Ould-Chikh, S.; Aguilar-Tapia, A.; Yarulina, I.; Abou-Hamad, E.; Sneider, Y. G.; Olivos Suarez, A. I.; Hazemann, J. L.; Kapteijn, F.; Gascon, J. On the Dynamic Nature of Mo Sites for Methane Dehydroaromatization. Chem. Sci. 2018, 9, 4801– 4807,  DOI: 10.1039/C8SC01263F
Google Scholar
116Tempelman, C. H. L.; Hensen, E. J. M. On the Deactivation of Mo/HZSM-5 in the Methane Dehydroaromatization Reaction. Appl. Catal., B 2015, 176–177, 731– 739,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2015.04.052
Google Scholar
117Han, S. J.; Kim, S. K.; Hwang, A.; Kim, S.; Hong, D.-Y.; Kwak, G.; Jun, K.-W.; Kim, Y. T. Non-oxidative Dehydroaromatization of Methane over Mo/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts: A Detailed Analysis of the Reaction-regeneration Cycle. Appl. Catal., B 2019, 241, 305– 318,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.09.042
Google Scholar
118Lezcano-González, I.; Oord, R.; Rovezzi, M.; Glatzel, P.; Botchway, S. W.; Weckhuysen, B. M.; Beale, A. M. Molybdenum Speciation and its Impact on Catalytic Activity during Methane Dehydroaromatization in Zeolite ZSM-5 as Revealed by Operando X-Ray Methods. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 5215– 5219,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201601357
Google Scholar
119Vollmer, I.; Kosinov, N.; Szécsényi, Á.; Li, G.; Yarulina, I.; Abou-Hamad, E.; Gurinov, A.; Ould-Chikh, S.; Aguilar-Tapia, A.; Hazemann, J.-L.; Pidko, E.; Hensen, E.; Kapteijn, F.; Gascon, J. A Site-sensitive quasi-in situ Strategy to Characterize Mo/HZSM-5 during Activation. J. Catal. 2019, 370, 321– 331,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2019.01.013
Google Scholar
120Zheng, Y.; Tang, Y.; Gallagher, J. R.; Gao, J.; Miller, J. T.; Wachs, I. E.; Podkolzin, S. G. Molybdenum Oxide, Oxycarbide, and Carbide: Controlling the Dynamic Composition, Size, and Catalytic Activity of Zeolite-Supported Nanostructures. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 22281– 22292,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b05449
Google Scholar
121Kosinov, N.; Wijpkema, A. S. G.; Uslamin, E.; Rohling, R.; Coumans, F.; Mezari, B.; Parastaev, A.; Poryvaev, A. S.; Fedin, M. V.; Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Confined Carbon Mediating Dehydroaromatization of Methane over Mo/ZSM-5. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 1016– 1020,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201711098
Google Scholar
122Kosinov, N.; Coumans, F. J. A. G.; Li, G.; Uslamin, E.; Mezari, B.; Wijpkema, A. S. G.; Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Stable Mo/HZSM-5 Methane Dehydroaromatization Catalysts Optimized for High-temperature Calcination-regeneration. J. Catal. 2017, 346, 125– 133,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2016.12.006
Google Scholar
123Vollmer, I.; Ould-Chikh, S.; Aguilar-Tapia, A.; Li, G.; Pidko, E.; Hazemann, J. L.; Kapteijn, F.; Gascon, J. Activity Descriptors Derived from Comparison of Mo and Fe as Active Metal for Methane Conversion to Aromatics. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 18814– 18824,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b09710
Google Scholar
124Wang, L.-C.; Zhang, Y.; Xu, J.; Diao, W.; Karakalos, S.; Liu, B.; Song, X.; Wu, W.; He, T.; Ding, D. Non-oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane to Ethylene over ZSM-5 Zeolite Supported Iron Catalysts. Appl. Catal., B 2019, 256, 117816,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.117816
Google Scholar
125Gu, Y.; Chen, P.; Wang, X.; Lyu, Y.; Liu, W.; Liu, X.; Yan, Z. Active Sites and Induction Period of Fe/ZSM-5 Catalyst in Methane Dehydroaromatization. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 6771– 6786,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c01467
Google Scholar
126Copéret, C.; Estes, D. P.; Larmier, K.; Searles, K. Isolated Surface Hydrides: Formation, Structure, and Reactivity. Chem. Rev. 2016, 116, 8463– 8505,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00082
Google Scholar
127Vidal, V.; Théolier, A.; Thivolle-Cazat, J.; Basset, J.-M. Metathesis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Silica-Supported Transition Metal Hydrides. Science 1997, 276, 99– 102,  DOI: 10.1126/science.276.5309.99
Google Scholar
128Zhou, Y.; Thirumalai, H.; Smith, S. K.; Whitmire, K. H.; Liu, J.; Frenkel, A. I.; Grabow, L. C.; Rimer, J. D. Ethylene Dehydroaromatization over Ga-ZSM-5 Catalysts: Nature and Role of Gallium Speciation. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 19592– 19601,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202007147
Google Scholar
129Kazansky, V. B.; Subbotina, I. R.; van Santen, R. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. DRIFTS Study of the Chemical State of Modifying Gallium Ions in Reduced Ga/ZSM-5 Prepared by ImpregnationI. Observation of Gallium Hydrides and Application of CO Adsorption as a Molecular Probe for Reduced Gallium Ions. J. Catal. 2004, 227, 263– 269,  DOI: 10.1016/S0021-9517(04)00367-7
Google Scholar
130Kazansky, V.; Subbotina, I.; Vansanten, R.; Hensen, E. DRIFTS Study of the Nature and Chemical Reactivity of Gallium Ions in Ga/ZSM-5 II. Oxidation of Reduced Ga Species in ZSM-5 by Nitrous Oxide or Water. J. Catal. 2005, 233, 351– 358,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.004
Google Scholar
131Schreiber, M. W.; Plaisance, C. P.; Baumgartl, M.; Reuter, K.; Jentys, A.; Bermejo-Deval, R.; Lercher, J. A. Lewis-Brønsted Acid Pairs in Ga/H-ZSM-5 to Catalyze Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 4849– 4859,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.7b12901
Google Scholar
132Mansoor, E.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Computational Modeling of the Nature and Role of Ga Species for Light Alkane Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by Ga/H-MFI. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6146– 6162,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b04295
Google Scholar
133Phadke, N. M.; Van der Mynsbrugge, J.; Mansoor, E.; Getsoian, A. B.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Characterization of Isolated Ga3+ Cations in Ga/H-MFI Prepared by Vapor-phase Exchange of H-MFI Zeolite with GaCl3. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6106– 6126,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b01254
Google Scholar
134Phadke, N. M.; Mansoor, E.; Bondil, M.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Mechanism and Kinetics of Propane Dehydrogenation and Cracking over Ga/H-MFI Prepared via Vapor-phase Exchange of H-MFI with GaCl3. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 1614– 1627,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.8b11443
Google Scholar
135Phadke, N. M.; Mansoor, E.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Mechanism and Kinetics of Light Alkane Dehydrogenation and Cracking over Isolated Ga Species in Ga/H-MFI. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 2062– 2075,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c04906
Google Scholar
136Raad, M.; Hamieh, S.; Toufaily, J.; Hamieh, T.; Pinard, L. Propane Aromatization on Hierarchical Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts. J. Catal. 2018, 366, 223– 236,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2018.07.035
Google Scholar
137Yuan, Y.; Brady, C.; Lobo, R. F.; Xu, B. Understanding the Correlation between Ga Speciation and Propane Dehydrogenation Activity on Ga/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 10647– 10659,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.1c01497
Google Scholar
138Maeno, Z.; Yasumura, S.; Wu, X.; Huang, M.; Liu, C.; Toyao, T.; Shimizu, K. I. Isolated Indium Hydrides in CHA Zeolites: Speciation and Catalysis for Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 4820– 4832,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b13865
Google Scholar
139Kazansky, V. B.; Serykh, A. I. Unusual Localization of Zinc Cations in MFI Zeolites Modified by Different Ways of Preparation. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2004, 6, 3760– 3764,  DOI: 10.1039/b401853b
Google Scholar
140Barbosa, L. A. M. M.; van Santen, R. A. The Activation of H2 by Zeolitic Zn(II) Cations. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 8337– 8348,  DOI: 10.1021/jp070677+
Google Scholar
141Oda, A.; Torigoe, H.; Itadani, A.; Ohkubo, T.; Yumura, T.; Kobayashi, H.; Kuroda, Y. Unprecedented Reversible Redox Process in the ZnMFI-H2 System Involving Formation of Stable Atomic Zn0. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 7719– 7723,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201201000
Google Scholar
142Shimizu, K.-i.; Sugino, K.; Kato, K.; Yokota, S.; Okumura, K.; Satsuma, A. Formation and Redispersion of Silver Clusters in Ag-MFI Zeolite as Investigated by Time-Resolved QXAFS and UV-Vis. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 1683– 1688,  DOI: 10.1021/jp066995a
Google Scholar
143Okumura, K.; Kato, K.; Sanada, T.; Niwa, M. In-Situ QXAFS Studies on the Dynamic Coalescence and Dispersion Processes of Pd in the. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 14426– 14432,  DOI: 10.1021/jp073874h
Google Scholar
144Okumura, K.; Honma, T.; Hirayama, S.; Sanada, T.; Niwa, M. Stepwise Growth of Pd Clusters in USY Zeolite at Room Temperature Analyzed by QXAFS. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 16740– 16747,  DOI: 10.1021/jp804381c
Google Scholar
145Lardinois, T. M.; Bates, J. S.; Lippie, H. H.; Russell, C. K.; Miller, J. T.; Meyer, H. M.; Unocic, K. A.; Prikhodko, V.; Wei, X.; Lambert, C. K.; Getsoian, A. B.; Gounder, R. Structural Interconversion between Agglomerated Palladium Domains and Mononuclear Pd(II) Cations in Chabazite Zeolites. Chem. Mater. 2021, 33, 1698– 1713,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c04465
Google Scholar
146Moliner, M.; Gabay, J. E.; Kliewer, C. E.; Carr, R. T.; Guzman, J.; Casty, G. L.; Serna, P.; Corma, A. Reversible Transformation of Pt Nanoparticles into Single Atoms Inside High-silica Chabazite Zeolite. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 15743– 15750,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.6b10169
Google Scholar
147Liu, L.; Zakharov, D. N.; Arenal, R.; Concepcion, P.; Stach, E. A.; Corma, A. Evolution and Stabilization of Subnanometric Metal Species in Confined Space by in situ TEM. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 574,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-03012-6
Google Scholar
148Liu, L.; Lopez-Haro, M.; Lopes, C. W.; Meira, D. M.; Concepcion, P.; Calvino, J. J.; Corma, A. Atomic-level Understanding on the Evolution Behavior of Subnanometric Pt and Sn Species during High-temperature Treatments for Generation of Dense PtSn Clusters in Zeolites. J. Catal. 2020, 391, 11– 24,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.035
Google Scholar
149Bukowski, B. C.; Delgass, W. N.; Greeley, J. Gold Stability and Diffusion in the Au/TS-1 Catalyst. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 4519– 4531,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c10193
Google Scholar
150Wang, Y.; Wang, G.; van der Wal, L. I.; Cheng, K.; Zhang, Q.; de Jong, K. P.; Wang, Y. Visualizing Element Migration over Bifunctional Metal-Zeolite Catalysts and its Impact on Catalysis. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 17735– 17743,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202107264
Google Scholar
151Agostini, G.; Lamberti, C.; Palin, L.; Milanesio, M.; Danilina, N.; Xu, B.; Janousch, M.; van Bokhoven, J. A. In Situ XAS and XRPD Parametric Rietveld Refinement To Understand Dealumination of Y Zeolite Catalyst. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 667– 678,  DOI: 10.1021/ja907696h
Google Scholar
152Morris, S. A.; Bignami, G. P. M.; Tian, Y.; Navarro, M.; Firth, D. S.; Cejka, J.; Wheatley, P. S.; Dawson, D. M.; Slawinski, W. A.; Wragg, D. S.; Morris, R. E.; Ashbrook, S. E. In Situ Solid-state NMR and XRD Studies of the ADOR Process and the Unusual Structure of Zeolite IPC-6. Nat. Chem. 2017, 9, 1012– 1018,  DOI: 10.1038/nchem.2761
Google Scholar
153Vjunov, A.; Fulton, J. L.; Huthwelker, T.; Pin, S.; Mei, D.; Schenter, G. K.; Govind, N.; Camaioni, D. M.; Hu, J. Z.; Lercher, J. A. Quantitatively Probing the Al Distribution in Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 8296– 8306,  DOI: 10.1021/ja501361v
Google Scholar
154van Bokhoven, J. A.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Koningsberger, D. C. Three-Coordinate Aluminum in Zeolites Observed with In situ X-ray Absorption Near-Edge Spectroscopy at the Al K-Edge: Flexibility of Aluminum Coordinations in Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 7435– 7442,  DOI: 10.1021/ja0292905
Google Scholar
155Vjunov, A.; Derewinski, M. A.; Fulton, J. L.; Camaioni, D. M.; Lercher, J. A. Impact of Zeolite Aging in Hot Liquid Water on Activity for Acid-Catalyzed Dehydration of Alcohols. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 10374– 10382,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b06169
Google Scholar
156Harris, J. W.; Cordon, M. J.; Di Iorio, J. R.; Vega-Vila, J. C.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Gounder, R. Titration and Quantification of Open and Closed Lewis Acid Sites in Sn-Beta Zeolites that Catalyze Glucose Isomerization. J. Catal. 2016, 335, 141– 154,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.024
Google Scholar
157Bordiga, S.; Lamberti, C.; Bonino, F.; Travert, A.; Thibault-Starzyk, F. Probing Zeolites by Vibrational Spectroscopies. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2015, 44, 7262– 7341,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CS00396B
Google Scholar
158Bruzzese, P. C.; Salvadori, E.; Jager, S.; Hartmann, M.; Civalleri, B.; Poppl, A.; Chiesa, M. 17O-EPR Determination of the Structure and Dynamics of Copper Single-metal Sites in Zeolites. Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4638,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-24935-7
Google Scholar
159Partridge, W. P.; Joshi, S. Y.; Pihl, J. A.; Currier, N. W. New Operando Method for Quantifying the Relative Half-cycle Rates of the NO SCR Redox Cycle over Cu-Exchanged Zeolites. Appl. Catal., B 2018, 236, 195– 204,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.04.071
Google Scholar
160Daya, R.; Joshi, S. Y.; Luo, J.; Dadi, R. K.; Currier, N. W.; Yezerets, A. On Kinetic Modeling of Change in Active Sites upon Hydrothermal Aging of Cu-SSZ-13. Appl. Catal., B 2020, 263, 118368,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118368
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
0
Mentioning
23
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 18 publications.
Yu Shi, Xiaoyan Tian, Zhiyong Deng, Weidong Shi, Weiqiang Fan, Fagen Wang. Review and Outlook of Confined Ni Catalysts for the Dry Reforming of Methane Reaction. Energy & Fuels 2024, 38 (3) , 1633-1656. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.3c03923
Elena Groppo, Sergio Rojas-Buzo, Silvia Bordiga. The Role of In Situ/Operando IR Spectroscopy in Unraveling Adsorbate-Induced Structural Changes in Heterogeneous Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (21) , 12135-12169. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.3c00372
Veronique Van Speybroeck, Massimo Bocus, Pieter Cnudde, Louis Vanduyfhuys. Operando Modeling of Zeolite-Catalyzed Reactions Using First-Principles Molecular Dynamics Simulations. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (17) , 11455-11493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01945
Kwan Chee Leung, Sungil Hong, Guangchao Li, Youdong Xing, Bryan Kit Yue Ng, Ping-Luen Ho, Dongpei Ye, Pu Zhao, Ephraem Tan, Olga Safonova, Tai-Sing Wu, Molly Meng-Jung Li, Giannis Mpourmpakis, Shik Chi Edman Tsang. Confined Ru Sites in a 13X Zeolite for Ultrahigh H2 Production from NH3 Decomposition. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (26) , 14548-14561. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c05092
Chaowen Liu, Mudi Xin, Chunlu Wang, Wenhui Zhao, Yanjuan Xiang, Xuejing Zhang, Limei Qiu, Guangtong Xu. Ag2O Nanoparticles Encapsulated in Ag-Exchanged LTA Zeolites for Highly Selective Separation of Ethylene/Ethane. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2023, 6 (7) , 5374-5383. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c05296
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Xunming Su, Zhong-Pan Hu, Jingfeng Han, Yingxu Wei, Zhongmin Liu. Selective Incorporation of Iron Sites into MFI Zeolite Framework by One-Pot Synthesis. Crystal Growth & Design 2023, 23 (4) , 2644-2651. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.2c01479
Zhongwen Dong, Wenjun Chen, Keqing Xu, Yue Liu, Jing Wu, Fan Zhang. Understanding the Structure–Activity Relationships in Catalytic Conversion of Polyolefin Plastics by Zeolite-Based Catalysts: A Critical Review. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (24) , 14882-14901. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04915
Peng Liu, Jingjing Zhang, Shaozhong Peng, Wei Liu, Donghai Mei. Thermodynamic Insight into Thermal Cracking of n-Hexane in the H-FAU Zeolite. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (48) , 20411-20422. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c06969
Yi Liu, Guanghui Zhang, Shida Liu, Jie Zhu, Jiaxu Liu, Jianyang Wang, Rongtan Li, Mingrui Wang, Qiang Fu, Shuandi Hou, Chunshan Song, Xinwen Guo. Promoting n-Butane Dehydrogenation over PtMn/SiO2 through Structural Evolution Induced by a Reverse Water-Gas Shift Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (21) , 13506-13512. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04471
Zhong-Pan Hu, Gangqiang Qin, Jingfeng Han, Wenna Zhang, Nan Wang, Yijun Zheng, Qike Jiang, Te Ji, Zhong-Yong Yuan, Jianping Xiao, Yingxu Wei, Zhongmin Liu. Atomic Insight into the Local Structure and Microenvironment of Isolated Co-Motifs in MFI Zeolite Frameworks for Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (27) , 12127-12137. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02636
Yi Zhai, Kaiwei Wang, Mingshuai Sun, Fumin Wang, Xubin Zhang, Guojun Lv, Linfang Jiang, Zhibo Xu. Manipulation of chemical behavior of species by a temperature-program strategy: efficiently confining metal oxide nanoclusters in a hollow zeolite. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2023, 11 (11) , 5775-5788. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA09727C
Ang Li, Yuyan Zhang, Christopher J. Heard, Kinga Gołąbek, Xiaohui Ju, Jiří Čejka, Michal Mazur. Encapsulating Metal Nanoparticles into a Layered Zeolite Precursor with Surface Silanol Nests Enhances Sintering Resistance**. Angewandte Chemie 2023, 135 (1) https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202213361
Ang Li, Yuyan Zhang, Christopher J. Heard, Kinga Gołąbek, Xiaohui Ju, Jiří Čejka, Michal Mazur. Encapsulating Metal Nanoparticles into a Layered Zeolite Precursor with Surface Silanol Nests Enhances Sintering Resistance**. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2023, 62 (1) https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202213361
Xianfeng Yi, Yao Xiao, Changjiu Xia, Fengqing Liu, Yujia Liu, Yu Hui, Xin Yu, Yucai Qin, Wei Chen, Zhiqiang Liu, Lijuan Song, Anmin Zheng. Adsorbate-driven dynamic active sites in stannosilicate zeolites. Fundamental Research 2023, 586 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fmre.2022.12.015
Mingjun Li, Feng Zheng, Jiao Wang, Donghua Jia, Xiaodong Mao, Peng Li, Qiang Yuan, Qiang Zhen, Yi Yu. Energy-saving production of high value-added foamed glass ceramic from blast furnace slag and hazardous wastes containing heavy metal ions. Journal of Cleaner Production 2023, 383 , 135544. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2022.135544
Xunming Su, Zhong-Pan Hu, Jingfeng Han, Yuhong Jia, Shutao Xu, Jin Zhang, Dong Fan, Yingxu Wei, Zhongmin Liu. Biomolecule-inspired synthesis of framework zinc in MFI zeolite for propane dehydrogenation. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 2023, 348 , 112371. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112371
Hui Tian, Shuai Liu, Qing Liu. HZSM-5 zeolite modification and catalytic reaction mechanism in the reaction of cyclohexene hydration. RSC Advances 2022, 12 (38) , 24654-24669. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2RA04285A
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 9, 5060–5076
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01233
Published April 14, 2022
Copyright © 2022 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
4939
Altmetric
1
Citations
18
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Metal Sites in Zeolites: Synthesis, Characterization, and Catalysis
September 1, 2022Chemical Reviews
Qiang Zhang, Shiqin Gao, and Jihong Yu*
Confinement in a Zeolite and Zeolite Catalysis
June 24, 2021Accounts of Chemical Research
Yuchao Chai, Weili Dai, Guangjun Wu, Naijia Guan, and 
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Ship-in-a-bottle strategy for acidity characterization and SAPO-34 catalyst modification for MTO reaction. Adapted with permission from ref (48). Copyright 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Proposed mechanisms for zeolite hydrolysis include a single H2O molecule mechanism, (61,63) two H2O molecules mechanism, (68) and multi-H2O molecules mechanism. (82) Adapted with permission from refs (61), (63), (68), and (82). Copyright 2012 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim; Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society; and Copyright 2021 American Chemical Society.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Dynamic evolution of Y zeolites from micropores to mesopores and enlarged mesopores characterized by 3D-TEM, Xe-NMR, and DFT calculations. Adapted with permission from ref (71). Copyright 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Valence state transformation of metal sites inside zeolites during the catalytic process: (a) the transformation of α-Fe(IV)═O in *BEA and CHA during methane hydroxylation. (95) (b) NH3–SCR reaction mechanism of Cu-CHA. (107) (c) Selective anaerobic oxidation of methane to methanol over Cu-CHA by H2O. (108) Adapted with permission from refs (95), (107), and (108). Copyright 2021 The American Association for the Advancement of Science and Copyright 2017 The American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Dynamic evolution of foreign metals in zeolites during the catalytic process. (a) Schematic illustration of the dynamic evolution of Mo species in HZSM-5 during MDA reaction. (118) (b) Schematic illustration of the evolution of Ga species on MFI zeolites in H2. (133) (c) Left, schematic illustration of transformation between single Pt atoms and small Pt clusters under different conditions; (146) Right, schematic illustration of the migration of In, Zn, Cr, and Zr on HZSM-5 during CO2 hydrogenation reaction. (150) Adapted with permission from refs (118), (133), (146), and (150). Copyright 2016 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society, Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society, and Copyright 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Future research directions about the dynamic evolution of zeolites and metal-zeolites.