element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical
Volume 395
, December 2014, Pages 329-336
Tuning selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation by shaping Pt particles: A combined experimental and DFT study
Author links open overlay panel
Ming-Lei Yang a
,
Jun Zhu b
,
Yi-An Zhu a
,
Zhi-Jun Sui a
,
Ying-Da Yu c
,
Xing-Gui Zhou a
,
De Chen b
Show more
Outline
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcata.2014.08.008
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
The catalytic performance of Pt particles with different shapes has been examined.
•
Cubic particles exhibit a higher catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation.
•
Octahedral particles have a better selectivity toward propylene production.
Abstract
Shaped metal particles are known to possess distinct catalytic properties, which is often attributed to the catalytic activities of different particle facets. In this contribution, propane dehydrogenation on Pt particles of different shapes is investigated by a combination of experiments and DFT calculations. The selectivity toward propylene and catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation can be enhanced by shaping Pt nanoparticles under industrially relevant conditions. Octahedral particles (12.0 nm) dominated by the Pt(1 1 1) surface have higher selectivity toward propylene production and better stability than cubic particles (11.5 nm) that are dominated by the Pt(1 0 0) surface. Combined experiments and DFT calculations suggest that the weakened binding strength of propylene and increased energy barrier for the C–H bond cleavage in propylene dehydrogenation on Pt(1 1 1) compared to Pt(1 0 0) and Pt(2 1 1) contribute to the higher selectivity toward propylene by lowering the formation possibility of the deeply dehydrogenated intermediates. When coke is formed on the Pt surface, the d-band of surrounding Pt atoms is shifted farther below the Fermi level, leading to the deactivation of Pt catalyst. Our DFT calculations provide a rational interpretation of the experimental observations regarding the shape effects on propane dehydrogenation.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (176KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
Shaped metal particleDFTPtPropane dehydrogenation
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.