element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Materials Science for Energy Technologies
Volume 3
, 2020, Pages 344-363
Recent processes for the production of alumina nano-particles
Author links open overlay panel
S. Said
,
S. Mikhail
,
M. Riad
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mset.2020.02.001
Get rights and content
Under a Creative Commons
license
open access
Abstract
Alumina nano-particles have wide usage in the adsorption and catalysis fields, because of its acid-base properties, high specific area, mechanical and thermal stability. The first part of the review interested on the various processes for the production of nano-particles alumina. The second part outlines the functionalization of nano-particles alumina with different function groups. Finally, the wide applications of nano-particles alumina in different fields are reported. Utilization of nano-particles alumina described in various industrial processes are evaluated from the standpoint of the importance of these reactions for technological applications, as reported in the literature.
Graphical abstract
Functionalization of alumina nano-particles by iron species.
Download: Download high-res image (118KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
Nano-particlesAluminaStructurePreparationApplication
Loading...
Cited by (0)
Peer review under responsibility of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.
2020 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.