<quotes>
[1] "The zinc oxide used in this study was Kadox 25 obtained from the New Jersey Zinc Co."
[2] "The adsorption of oxygen on a surface has been shown to promote the catalysis of ortho-para conversion."
[3] "The adsorption of hydrogen on zinc oxide in two forms (Types I and II) at room temperature (26) and in a third form (Type III) at 78K (27)."
[4] "Type I hydrogen adsorbs rapidly and reversibly to yield ZnH and OH bands in the ir at room temperature by dissociation on a limited number of zinc oxide pair sites (20,24)."
[5] "Ethylene inhibits isotopic exchange and, in the hydrogenation reaction with hydrogen isotopes,their gas phase molecular identity is preserved on addition (29)."
[6] "The effect of adsorbed water on the Type 1 and Type III hydrogen as well as on molecular nitrogen adsorption further supports the suggestion that these three forms of adsorption occur on or near the same limited pair sites (27)."
[7] "The kinetic and adsorption measurements during exchange in the presence and absence of ox- ygen and nitrogen are compared and their relationship to the various proposed mechanisms are discussed below."
[8] "Oxygen promotion of allotropic conversion. The adsorption of oxygen on a surface has been shown to promote the catalysis of ortho-para conversion (12)."
[9] "Nitrogen inhibition of allotropic conversion. The effect on the rate of conversion by nitrogen adsorbed on a catalyst for which the rate was promoted by adsorp- tion of 0.25 cm3 g-l of oxygen at 78K is shown in Fig. 3."
[10] "Ethylene inhibition of allotropic conversion. The rate of ortho-para conversion at room temperature was measured for a 200 Torr hydrogen pressure in the presence of 100 Torr ethylene in the gas phase."
[11] "Kinetic isotope effect in allotropic conversion. The second method of analysis was used to obtain the rates of ortho-para conversion for deuterium and hydrogen."
[12] "Mechanism for isotopic exchange. Both mechanisms A and B would result in exchange over zinc oxide."
[13] "Comparison of H and D allotropic conversion. We have concluded that the ortho-para conversion at low temperature occurs by mechanism C."
[14] "Adsorbed hindered rotor and the para-magnetic conversion. The allotropic conversion by a paramagnetic mechanism has been treated theoretically for gas phase molecular collision with a paramagnetic molecule by Wigner (8)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The zinc oxide used in this study was Kadox 25 obtained from the New Jersey Zinc Co.
2. The adsorption of oxygen on a surface has been shown to promote the catalysis of ortho-para conversion.
3. Zinc oxide adsorbs hydrogen in three forms at different temperatures: Type I and Type II at room temperature, and Type III at 78K.
4. Type I hydrogen rapidly and reversibly adsorbs to yield ZnH and OH bands at room temperature.
5. Ethylene inhibits isotopic exchange, preserving the molecular identity of hydrogen isotopes upon addition.
6. Adsorbed water affects Type I and Type III hydrogen and molecular nitrogen adsorption similarly, suggesting they occur on the same limited sites.
7. Kinetic and adsorption measurements during exchange in the presence and absence of oxygen and nitrogen compare to proposed mechanisms.
8. Oxygen promotes allotropic conversion.
9. Nitrogen inhibits allotropic conversion on a catalyst previously promoted by oxygen.
10. Ethylene decreases the rate of allotropic conversion at room temperature.
11. The kinetic isotope effect in allotropic conversion indicates that deuterium conversion is faster than hydrogen conversion.
12. Isotopic exchange over zinc oxide is explained by mechanisms A and B.
13. The ortho-para conversion at low temperature occurs by mechanism C, which is distinct from isotopic exchange mechanisms.
14. Adsorbed hindered rotor theory explains the paramagnetic conversion process.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 本次研究使用的锌氧化物是从新泽西锌公司获得的Kadox 25。
2. 氧气吸附在表面上已被证明能促进正-反氢转化的催化作用。
3. 锌氧化物在不同温度下吸附三种形式的氢：室温下的类型I和类型II，以及78K时的类型III。
4. 类型I氢迅速且可逆地吸附形成ZnH和OH带，在室温下发生。
5. 乙烷抑制同位素交换，并在氢化反应中保持氢同位素的分子身份。
6. 水吸附影响类型I和类型III氢以及分子氮吸附，表明它们发生在相同的有限对位点上。
7. 在氧气和氮气的存在与否下进行的动能和吸附测量与提出的机制进行了比较。
8. 氧气促进所有类型的转换。
9. 氮气抑制氧气促进的催化剂上的所有类型的转换。
10. 乙烷在室温下降低所有类型的转换速率。
11. 低温度下正-反氢转换由机制C发生，这与同位素交换机制不同。
12. 同位素交换在锌氧化物上的发生由机制A和B解释。
13. 低温下正-反氢转换由机制C发生，这是与同位素交换机制不同的过程。
14. 吸附的受限旋转理论解释了磁性转换过程。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
