<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
Although vanadia catalysts have not been used commercially there is a signifi cant literature concerning the dehydrogenation reaction over supported vanadia systems.
The structure of supported vanadia catalysts under redox reaction condi- tions is directly related to the catalytic performance.
A number of techniques have been applied to investigate the reduction of supported vanadia catalysts, such as TPR [36 38]
Most of these techniques give information only on the oxidation state of vanadia species.
However, several recent investigations on supported transition metal oxides [55 58] , including vanadium oxides [55, 56] under ambient condi- tions, using both UV and visible wavelength Raman excitations suggest that more complete and sometimes new structural information of supported metal oxides can be achieved by using multiple excitation wavelengths.
The reason lies in the strong electronic absorptions in the UV and visible wavelength regions exhibited by most transition metal oxides, which make it possible to measure resonance - enhanced Raman spectra.
By measuring the Raman spectra at several wavelengths,more information can be obtained about the various VO
x species in the distribu- tion.
Moreover, when UV excitation is employed, even Raman spectra from sup- ported VO
x at low loadings ( < 1 wt%) on oxides having strong fl uorescence are possible because of the avoidance of fl uorescence and enhanced sensitivity [59,60] .
In addition, the decreased self - absorption effects in the UV region indicated by in situ UV - Vis DRS studies of reduced VO
x and CrO
x [40 44, 61, 62] suggests
Studies on alumina supported catalysts with a range of vanadia weight loadings revealed [63, 64] that isolated VO
x species dominated at surface densities below 1 V/nm 2 ; polyvanadates coexisted with monovanadates at surface densities between 1.2 4.4 V/nm 2 ; and V 2 O 5 formed at a surface density higher than 4.4 V/nm 2 .
The vanadia densities of the catalysts were 1.1 V/nm 2 for the sample with the 1% loading, 3.7 V/nm 2 for the 3.5% loading and 10.4 V/nm 2 for the 8% loading.
The spectra clearly suggest that the popula- tion of V 2 O 5 - like species in the 8 wt% catalyst is larger than in the 3.5 wt% catalyst,consistent with the Raman data.
Alongside characterizing the 51 V environment, NMR spectroscopy of the 27 Al species is also of interest.
The weight loss at the reduction step increases with vanadia loading: when these weights are translated into oxygen loss we see that there is a 1 :1 relationship between vanadium atoms and oxygen atom loss (Table 15.1).
This difference in onset of reduction may be attributed to different reducibilities of vanadia species, monovanadates,polyvanadates and V 2 O 5 coexisting on the catalyst s surface.
The rate of catalyst re - oxidation was seen to be greater for the 8 wt% catalyst than for materials of lower vanadium loading (Gladden and McGregor, unpublished results).
Once reduced, the 3.5 %V sample did not regain its original state even after high temperature oxidation;however, the reduced 8 %V sample did convert to a species that was similar to the original oxidation state.
Supported VO
x catalysts show good catalytic performance in both oxidation and reduction reactions; for example, they are among the most active and selective simple metal oxides for dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.
The possibility of using oxide systems other than chromia is being Table 15.1 Extent of oxygen removal during reduction of vanadia/alumina catalysts.
However deactivation of VO
x catalysts by coke species is also observed with time - on - stream in butane dehydrogenation reactions.
Owing to the limited number of studies of supported VO
x for alkane dehydrogenation,the mechanism of deactivation/coke deposition and also the structure of sup- ported VO
x species under dehydrogenation conditions are unclear.
In essence, the initial dehydrogenation activity increases as a function of surface VO
x density.
However, the activity decreases signifi cantly with prolonged reaction time for samples with VO
x density higher than 1.2 V/nm 2 , apparently due to the forma- tion of surface coke deposits and blocking of surface sites during the reaction.
Interestingly, the dehydrogenation activity remains nearly unchanged on the cata- lysts with surface VO
x density no higher than 1.2 V/nm 2 .
However, at higher butane pressures, although the behavior of the 1.2 V/nm 2 sample is unchanged,catalysts with higher V/nm 2 densities show enhanced activity (Table 15.2).
The Raman spectra collected during butane dehydrogenation at different temperatures are shown in Figure 15.6.
At temperatures below 673 K, a weak Raman band at 1620 cm 1 , assigned to C = C stretching in polyalkenes, is observed together with the two bands at 1021 and 915 cm 1 due to the V = O and V O Al modes of surface VO
x species, respectively.
After butane dehydrogenation at 673 and 773 K, an intense band at 1601 cm 1 due to polyaromatic hydrocarbons develops.
Meanwhile, Raman bands at 1021 and 915 cm 1 from surface VO
x species are no longer observable, owing to a combina- tion of the reduction of VO
x species [43, 45, 47, 65, 71] and strong optical absorp- tion by surface coke species.
The band at 1500 cm 1 is usually assigned to conjugated polyalkenes or cyclopentadienyl species [76, 77] .
The band at 1438 cm 1 is due to the bending mode of CH 3 /CH 2 or C H in aromatic rings.
C H bending in aromatics usually appears near 1180 cm 1 .
The two sharp bands at 1004 and 845 cm 1 are rarely reported for coke species, and thus one might ascribe them to surface VO
x species.
However, the absence of an isotope shift on an 18 O - exchanged V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 sample confi rms that these bands are due to surface coke deposits.
As the dehydrogenation temperature is increased to 873 K, the intensity of the Raman bands below 1500 cm 1 decreases signifi cantly.
Raman spectra obtained after the reaction of butane with pre - reduced 1.2 %V (not shown) are very similar to those on pre - oxidized 1.2 %V.
This suggests that the initial valence state of surface VO
x does not affect the nature of coke species and most likely the VO
x species is at least partially reduced under butane dehydrogenation conditions.
This conclusion can also be inferred from the similar activity/selectivity results from butane dehy- drogenation tests on either oxidized or pre - reduced 1.2 %V and also the similar UV - Visible spectra from V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 treated in either hydrogen or butane.
The set of Raman bands near 850, 1002, 1183, 1437, 1501 and 1603 cm 1 is also observed to grow simultaneously on all other V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 samples when treated in butane at high temperatures.
To aid the assignment of these bands, the adsorption and reaction of different C 4 olefi ns were studied on the V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 samples via Raman spectroscopy.
It turned out that they all form similar coke species, indicat- ing that they are precursors to coke species in butane dehydrogenation on V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 catalysts.
It is interesting to fi nd out that 1,3 - butadiene adsorption at room temperature results in similar spectra to that from butane dehydrogenation on 1.2 V at 673 K.
Considering the low temperature (298 K), a possible chemical change for 1,3 - butadiene is its cyclization to form styrene on the surface.
A com- parison of the spectrum from styrene with that after butane dehydrogenation at 673 K on 1.2 %V (Figure 15.7) reveals a very similar set of bands.
Also included is the spectrum from a mixture of 1.2 %V with styrene heated at 393 K (Figure 15.7 c).
Styrene is known to polymerize easily upon heating.
Comparison of spectrum c to that reported for polystyrene [78] confi rms the identity of spectrum c: the set of Raman bands near 850, 1002, 1183, 1437, 1501 and 1603 cm 1 is due to polysty- rene.
Thus, it appears that polystyrene is a key intermediate in the coke formation process during butane dehydrogenation on the 1.2 V catalyst.
Further Raman spectroscopy study of styrene on V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 samples heated to 873 K showed that the characteristic Raman bands of polystyrene disappear, owing to its decomposi- tion.
This is consistent with catalytic studies of polystyrene degradation over solid acid catalysts [79] .
An interesting new observation is that although the Raman spectrum seems to indicate that the catalyst surface is free of coke species after polystyrene decomposition, the follow - up TPO (Temperature Programmed Oxida- tion) shows the evolution of a considerable amount of CO 2 .
This suggests that the absence of typical Raman bands (1000 1650 cm 1 range) due to coke species does not necessarily mean the catalyst is coke free.
Investigation of the catalytic surface with multi - wavelength Raman spectroscopy should be helpful in determining the chemical nature of this surface carbon.
Microanalysis of a used 1.2 V catalyst for carbon and hydrogen gave a C : H value of 0.9 as per polystyrene monomer in agreement with the Raman spectra [31] .
One important general characteristic of coke is its topology, which can be assessed by the intensity ratio of the band at around 1600 cm 1 (G band) to the band at around 1400 cm 1 (D band) [76, 80] .
UV Raman spectra from a series of polyaromatic compounds [76, 81] show that the intensity in the spectral range 1600 1650 cm 1 is signifi cantly higher than that in the region 1300 to 1450 cm 1 for coke species with a 2 - D, sheet - like topology.
By contrast, the intensity is more nearly equal in these two spectral regions for coke species with chain - like topolo- gies.
The topology of coke species formed from butane dehydrogenation on the various V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 catalysts at 873 K is compared by plotting the intensity ratio of I G to I D as a function of surface VO
It is shown that the coke species are more 2 - D, sheet - like from butane dehydrogenation on V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 with high surface VO
x density ( > 1.2 V/nm 2 ) while more 1 - D - like on V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 with lower surface VO
x density ( 1.2 V/nm 2 ).
The 2 - D coke species can, presumably, reorganize into pre - graphitic entities that have been thought to be the kind of coke that causes the deactivation of dehydrogenation catalysts [33, 82, 83] .
A study of coke deposited on a 1 wt% V/Al 2 O 3 catalyst, in which the deactivation was studied as a function of time - on - stream (TOS) using 13 C CP MAS (cross - polarization magic angle spin- ning) NMR reveals a signifi cant increase in the aromatic peak at 130 ppm up to 3 h, then a gradual decrease in this peak [84] .
The initial increase in the peak intensity was explained by an initial coke build - up, whereas the decrease in inten- sity was due to formation of very slowly relaxing, NMR invisible , highly polyaro- matic coke, which formed under prolonged exposure to the reaction conditions.
This interpretation is consistent with the constant decrease in T 2 of adsorbed pentane observed, which also suggests an increasing aromaticity of coke with increasing TOS.
Further, a monotonic decrease in pentane self - diffusion coeffi - cient as a function of TOS was observed; these data are consistent with restriction in molecular motion resulting from pore blockage due to coke deposition as deac- tivation proceeds.
However, in another study it was found that the majority of the catalyst deactivation in the early stages of reaction was not due to polynuclear aromatics or other forms of coke but to strongly adsorbed reaction intermediates [31] .
These species can be desorbed at room temperature by treating with a low concentration O 2 in Ar mix.
Figure 15.8 shows desorption of butane from a series of VO
x /alumina catalysts.
The catalyst had been running under butane for 2 h at 873 K when the gas stream was switched from butane to argon.
Online mass spectrometry indicated that all hydrocarbon components were rapidly swept out of the reactor at 873 K and no other gases apart from the argon carrier were detected during the cool - down period.
However when 2% O 2 /Ar was passed over the sample at room temperature butane, butenes and butadiene were evolved.
This desorption process can be viewed as an oxidative displacement, resulting in recombination of reaction inter- mediates (hydrogen and alkyl, alkenyl and alkadienyl) from the surface of reduced VO
The polynuclear aromatics were only removed when the catalyst was subjected to a full regeneration involving high temperature oxidation [31] .
The regeneration of samples of V/ θ - Al 2 O 3 coked from low partial pressure butane dehydrogenation via oxidation was also followed by UV Raman spectros- copy as well as gas chromatography (GC).
The Raman spectroscopy indicates that the structure of the VO
x species can be restored by oxidation of the coke deposits up to 873 K.
UV - Vis DRS, however, suggests that only high loaded samples are fully restored.
51 V MAS NMR confi rms the re - oxidation of reduced vanadium species and, as such, spectra of the regenerated catalyst can be acquired (Gladden and McGregor, unpublished results).
By comparison with Figure 15.4 a it can be seen that the spectrum of the regenerated catalysts indi- cates the presence of a greater quantity of ordered V 2 O 5 - like species than were present in the as - prepared catalyst.
However, one must take care as each tech- nique has its blind spots and it is possible that it is the inability of each of the techniques to see all of the vanadia species that leads to apparent differ- ences.
At low butane partial pressure, TPO quantifi cation results showed that the amount of coke formed in butane dehydrogenation follows the sequence: poly- meric VO
x > monomeric VO
x > V 2 O 5 , Al 2 O 3 .
However, at 1 bar butane pressure the order is changed slightly with V 2 O 5 > polymeric VO
x > Al 2 O 3 .
After regeneration the surface area of an 8%V catalyst was reduced by 50%, a
Figure 15.5 c shows the 27 Al 3Q MAS NMR spectrum of 8V after reaction and regeneration.
Comparison with Figure 15.5 b shows the loss of an isotropic resonance; this resonance was assigned to 5 - coordinate Al and the loss of this species suggests a transformation towards a more crystalline state in agreement with the reduced surface area.
It is rare for a structure function relationship to be shown unambiguously in heterogeneous catalysis.
However, a structure coke relationship has been estab- lished in the dehydrogenation of butane on VO
x / θ - Al 2 O 3 catalysts by combined reactivity, UV - Vis DRS, NMR, TEOM and UV Raman investigations.
In this case,both the nature and amount of coke show a dependence on the structure of the VO
x / θ - Al 2 O 3 catalysts.
</Quotes>
      <English>
The exploration of vanadium oxide-based catalysts as alternatives to Pt and CrOx for paraffin dehydrogenation has been driven by the rich and complex chemistry of these materials, which is still not fully understood. Research in this area has evolved since the 1980s, with significant advances made in understanding the structure and behavior of vanadium species in these catalysts. Techniques such as TPR, XPS, ESR, UV-Vis DRS, XAFS, and Raman spectroscopy have been applied to investigate the reduction of supported vanadia catalysts. The use of multiple excitation wavelengths in Raman spectroscopy has allowed for more complete structural information of supported metal oxides to be obtained. The nature and behavior of vanadium species in these catalysts are influenced by variables such as carrier type, support surface area, and metal loading. For example, isolated VOx species dominate at surface densities below 1 V/nm2, polyvanadates coexist with monovanadates at surface densities between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and V2O5 forms at a surface density higher than 4.4 V/nm2. The weight loss at the reduction step increases with vanadia loading, and the rate of catalyst re-oxidation is greater for higher vanadium loading catalysts. Once reduced, the 3.5%V sample did not regain its original state even after high temperature oxidation, while the reduced 8%V sample did convert to a species similar to the original oxidation state. Supported VOx catalysts show good catalytic performance in both oxidation and reduction reactions; for example, they are among the most active and selective simple metal oxides for dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. The possibility of using oxide systems other than chromia is being explored in an effort to make the alkane-alkene conversion process more selective and stable. V/θ-Al2O3 catalysts with surface VOx density from 0.03 to 14.2 V/nm2 were tested for butane dehydrogenation under low partial pressures of butane at 873 K, and the activity and selectivity data on these different catalysts were compared. In essence, the initial dehydrogenation activity increases as a function of surface VOx density. However, the activity decreases significantly with prolonged reaction time for samples with VOx density higher than 1.2 V/nm2, apparently due to the formation of surface coke deposits and blocking of surface sites during the reaction. Interestingly, the dehydrogenation activity remains nearly unchanged on the catalysts with surface VOx density no higher than 1.2 V/nm2. However, at higher butane pressures, although the behavior of the 1.2 V/nm2 sample is unchanged, catalysts with higher V/nm2 densities show enhanced activity. The regeneration of samples of V/θ-Al2O3 coked from low partial pressure butane dehydrogenation via oxidation was also followed by UV Raman spectroscopy as well as gas chromatography (GC). The Raman spectroscopy indicates that the structure of the VOx species can be restored by oxidation of the coke deposits up to 873 K. UV-Vis DRS, however, suggests that only high-loaded samples are fully restored. 51V MAS NMR confirms the re-oxidation of reduced vanadium species and, as such, spectra of the regenerated catalyst can be acquired. After regeneration, the surface area of an 8%V catalyst was reduced by 50%, a change assigned to transformations in the nature of the support. A similar effect was observed after propane dehydrogenation over a vanadia/alumina catalyst, where a conversion of the γ-alumina support to α-alumina was confirmed by XRD. 27Al triple-quantum (3Q) MAS NMR studies have also demonstrated that the nature of the support undergoes a transformation.
</English>
      <Chinese>
</Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
