<quotes>

[1] "The recent discovery demonstrated that hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron-containing catalysts with active oxygenated boron species could selectively catalyze the ODH reaction with only negligible CO2 formation, thus opening new avenues toward the selective cleavage of the CH bond of alkanes7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16."
[2] "Prior studies have reported that the exceptional product distribution on h-BN catalyst is ascribed to the combination of surface-mediated formation of radicals and subsequent gaseous reactions17,18,19,20, which contrasts with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on traditional vanadium-based catalysts."
[3] "However, although some experimental indications of gas-phase reactions were observed21,22, the complex radical reaction networks hindered the insights into the ODH over h-BN."
[4] "The understanding of which species could ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity would pave the way for the construction of a more efficient catalytic reaction system."
[5] "The complex surface-gas-phase reaction involved many synergies and it is worth further investigation in the future to comprehend this system."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The multidimensional nature of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction mechanism over boron-based (B-based) catalysts, which includes both surface-mediated radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions, offers a unique pathway for the selective cleavage of the carbon-hydrogen (CH) bond in alkanes with minimal carbon dioxide (CO2) formation. This contrasts with traditional vanadium-based catalysts that follow the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. The complex radical reaction networks in gas-phase reactions have hindered a deeper understanding of the ODHP over hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN). Gaining insights into which species can ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity will facilitate the design of more efficient catalytic systems. The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions in the complex surface-gas-phase reaction system warrant further investigation to fully comprehend the system.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硼基催化剂上丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应机制的多维特性，包括表面介导的自由基形成和随后的气相反应，为烷烃中碳氢(CH)键的有选择性断裂提供了一条独特途径，同时二氧化碳(CO2)的生成量极小。这与遵循Mars-van Krevelen机制的传统钒基催化剂形成对比。气相反应中复杂的自由基反应网络阻碍了对h-BN上ODHP的深入了解。了解哪些物种可以确保高烷烃转化率和高烯烃选择性，将为更高效催化反应体系的设计铺平道路。在复杂的表面-气相反应体系中，表面和气相反应之间的协同效应值得进一步研究，以全面理解该体系。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
