<quotes>
[1] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[2] "In fact, the United States already obtains one-quarter of their natural gas production from shale gas deposits, and this is expected to rise even further in the coming years due to the emphasis that is being given to the attainment of energy independence."
[3] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[4] "In 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[5] "The supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen sharply, creating opportunities for on-purpose catalytic technologies, such as the catalytic dehydrogenation of light paraffins into the corresponding olefins."
[6] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[8] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[9] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[10] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[11] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[12] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[13] "As of this writing, ca. 5 million tons of propylene is produced annually by propane dehydrogenation (PDH)."
[14] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The demand for light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, has been steadily increasing, with all major markets experiencing positive growth except for the Eurozone due to economic downturn. The US is now obtaining a quarter of its natural gas production from shale gas deposits, with this proportion expected to grow further due to energy independence efforts. The increased supply of natural gas has led to a significant drop in gas costs, making shale gas a more attractive energy source and feedstock for producing transportation fuels and chemicals. In 2007, less than 3% of propylene was produced using on-purpose techniques, with the majority coming from FCC and steam cracking. The supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen, creating opportunities for catalytic dehydrogenation technologies, particularly for light paraffins. Propane dehydrogenation profitability is heavily influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. The demand for butadiene has increased, partly due to the automotive industry, while supply has decreased due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, leading to sharp increases in butadiene prices and investment in new butane dehydrogenation installations in the US, China, and Japan. The availability of ethane has led to a shift in steam cracking installations in the US from naphtha to shale-based ethane, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being dismantled or converted. Shale gas production has enabled the US to become the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, with 126 investment projects totaling $84 billion made by the American Chemistry Council up to September 2013. Approximately 5 million tons of propylene are produced annually by propane dehydrogenation, a number expected to increase significantly in the coming years with dozens of new installations announced globally, many already under construction.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这些基础化学品的需求在过去几年中一直稳步增长，所有主要市场均出现了积极的增长，除了欧元区，由于经济衰退的影响。美国现在从页岩气生产中获得其天然气产量的四分之一，这一比例预计将在未来进一步增长，因为人们越来越重视实现能源独立。随着天然气供应量的增加，天然气成本大幅下降，使得页岩气成为更具有吸引力的能源来源和生产运输燃料或化学物质的原料。在2007年，仅约3%的丙烯是通过专门技术生产的，而大多数则来自于催化裂化和蒸汽裂解。丙烯的供应量减少，价格飙升，为轻质烷烃的催化脱氢技术提供了机会，尤其是对于生成相应的烯烃。丙烯的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烯和丙烷的价格差异，这使得当前市场条件非常有利。丁二烯的需求有所增加，特别是汽车行业的推动，而供给却因裂解石脑油成本高昂而减少，导致丁二烯价格上涨并刺激了在美国、中国和日本对新的丁烷脱氢装置的投资。乙烷的高可用性导致美国的裂解装置从石脑油转向页岩基乙烷，石脑油裂解装置被拆除或转换。页岩气生产的繁荣使美国成为了除中东以外的最低成本的化工生产国，到2013年9月，美国化学理事会统计了总计840亿美元的126个投资项目。目前每年大约有500万吨丙烯通过丙烷脱氢生产，这个数字在未来几年预计将显著增加，因为全球宣布了数十个新装置，并且许多装置已经在建设中。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
