<quotes>
[1] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[2] "In Figure 1, the uses as well as the recent and predicted future growth of the olefin supply and demand are shown."
[3] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[4] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[5] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[6] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[7] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[8] "To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins."
[9] "The Star (UHDE) process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East."
[10] "Moreover, alkane conversion has been found to be inversely proportional to space velocity, and selectivity has been found to be directly proportional to alkene selectivity."
[11] "Indeed, experiments performed using a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM), shown in Figure 17, revealed that the weight of the catalyst increases during the initial stages (10-40 min) of the reaction, no additional carbon being deposited after this time."
[12] "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, catalysts with a strong reduction peak at low temperatures show the highest catalytic activity."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The demand for light olefin building blocks has consistently grown over the past years, except in the Eurozone due to economic downturn effects. Figures 1 and 2 demonstrate the recent and forecasted growth in olefin supply and demand. In 2007, less than 3% of propylene was produced through targeted methods, with FCC and steam cracking accounting for the majority of propylene production. The surge in shale gas production has significantly lowered gas costs, making it an attractive energy source and feedstock for chemical production. This has transformed the US into the world's lowest-cost chemical producer, excluding the Middle East, with 126 investment projects totaling $84 billion recorded up to September 2013 by the American Chemistry Council. Shale gas deposits contain substantial amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), including ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely influenced by the price disparity between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. Five industrial dehydrogenation processes have been patented, with two currently in use. The Star process will debut in the Middle East for the first time. Conversion rate decreases with increased space velocity, while selectivity increases with ethylene selectivity.

2. The weight of the catalyst increases during the initial 10-40 minutes of the reaction, with no additional carbon deposition thereafter. This is shown in Figure 17 through experiments conducted using a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM).

3. Catalysts displaying a strong reduction peak at low temperatures exhibit the highest catalytic activity in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 近年来，轻质烯烃构建块的需求持续增长，除了欧元区，这归因于经济衰退的影响。图1和图2展示了轻质烯烃供应与需求的近期和预测增长。2007年，仅约3%的丙烯通过特定方法生产，而FCC和蒸汽裂解则占主要的丙烯生产。天然气产量的激增显著降低了天然气成本，使其作为能源来源和化学品生产的原料非常有吸引力。这使得美国成为除中东以外的世界最低成本化工生产国，截至2013年9月，美国化学理事会记录了126个总投资项目，总额为840亿美元。页岩气储备中含有大量天然气体液体（NGL），包括乙烷和丙烷，这些可以通过分离从天然气中提取。丙烷脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件十分有利。已经批准了五种工业脱氢过程专利，其中两种正在使用中。Star工艺将在中东首次应用。转化率随空间速度增加而减少，乙烯选择性随选择性增加而增加。

2. 在前40分钟内，催化剂的重量在反应初期增加，之后不再增加额外的碳沉积。这是通过使用锥形元件振荡微平衡仪（TEOM）进行的实验，在图17中显示。

3. 在非氧化脱氢化乙烷过程中，显示出低温强还原峰的催化剂表现出最高的催化活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
