<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is the basic raw material for the production of acrolein, polypropylene, acetone, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide and other industrial products.1 Conventional propylene pro- duction processes involve fluid catalytic cracking, and steam cracking of naphtha and light diesel. However, with the rapid consumption of fossil energy, traditional propylene production methods can no longer meet the increasing demands. Therefore,the development of highly efficient propylene production technologies is of vital importance, both scientifically and economically.2 In the past few years, increasing technologies for propylene production have been widely developed, such as propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the methanol-to-olefins (MTO) process, and the FischerTropsch-to-olefins process (Fig. 1a and b). Especially, PDH technology is considered to Cite this: Chem. Soc. Rev., 2021,50, 3315 a Key Laboratory for Green Chemical Technology of Ministry of Education, School of Chemical Engineering & Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China."
[2] "In addition to metals and metal oxides, the modern green chemical industry has made urgent and strict demands for environmentally and economically friendly catalysts, which has seriously restricted the large scale applications of conventional metal-based catalysts, especially pre- cious metal and toxic metal oxides. Alternative carbon-based materials and carbides and nitrides have been investigated widely."
[3] "In the propane dehydrogenation system, it is of vital importance to understand the relationship between active-site motifs and unique catalytic behaviors,including dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechan- isms, which can shine a light on precise catalyst design. In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deac- tivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified."
[4] "Although small particles are inclined to increasing the mount of active sites on the surface, the relative fraction of exposed"
[5] "The DFT calculation on Ga2O3(100) shows that the activation of propane on the surface of Ga2O3 is first caused by the loss of one hydrogen of the propane molecule to form a propyl group and a hydroxyl group, and then the removal of b-H to form another hydroxyl group.104 But it takes much energy to get rid of these two hydroxyl groups to form H2O or H2, and the latter takes a lot more energy. So it is thought that the difficulty of the desorption step of the adsorbed hydrogen atoms limits the activity of Ga2O3."
[6] "Many efforts have been made to improve the activity of GaOx-based catalysts. Doping can effectively increase the activity by increasing the number of coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ sites."
[7] "Recently, Sattler et al. reported trace Pt modified GaOx as efficient catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.105 They found that the promoter of Pt helps in facilitating hydrogen desorption and recovering the gallium hydride and/or hydroxide species."
[8] "In addition, H2 pretreatment can promote the formation of GaH species, which are more active than H+ sites and Ga+ sites.102,106 Furthermore, GaOx-based catalysts suffer from significant sintering during the continuous regeneration operations.107 Therefore, controlled regeneration is highly desired to recover their performance."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The growing demand for propylene has led to the development of new production methods, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), due to the rapid consumption of fossil energy and the inability of traditional propylene production methods to meet increasing demands. PDH technology is considered a promising method for propylene production. The understanding of Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts for PDH has evolved, with ongoing debate about active Ga species. DFT calculations have shown that the activation of propane on the surface of Ga2O3 involves the loss of hydrogen to form hydroxyl groups, but the desorption step of adsorbed hydrogen atoms limits the activity of Ga2O3. Efforts to improve the activity of GaOx-based catalysts have included doping to increase the number of coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ sites, and the use of trace Pt as a promoter to facilitate hydrogen desorption and recover gallium hydride and/or hydroxide species. H2 pretreatment can also promote the formation of more active GaH species. However, GaOx-based catalysts suffer from significant sintering during continuous regeneration operations, so controlled regeneration is desired to recover their performance.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烯需求的不断增长促使了新的生产方法的发展，特别是丙烷脱氢(PDH)，因为化石能源的快速消耗和传统丙烯生产方法无法满足日益增长的需求。PDH技术被认为是丙烯生产的一种有前途的方法。对于PDH中Ga/H-ZSM-5催化剂的理解已经发展，关于活性Ga物种的争论仍在继续。DFT计算表明，丙烷在Ga2O3表面的活化涉及氢的损失形成羟基，但吸附氢原子的脱附步骤限制了Ga2O3的活性。为了提高GaOx基催化剂的活性，已经做出了许多努力，包括掺杂以增加配位不饱和Ga3+位点的数量，以及使用微量Pt作为促进剂，以促进氢的脱附和恢复镓氢化物和/或氢氧化物物种。H2预处理还可以促进更活性的GaH物种的形成。然而，GaOx基催化剂在连续再生操作中遭受严重的烧结，因此需要控制再生以恢复其性能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
