<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is the basic raw material for the production of acrolein, polypropylene, acetone, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide and other industrial products.1 Conventional propylene pro- duction processes involve fluid catalytic cracking, and steam cracking of naphtha and light diesel. However, with the rapid consumption of fossil energy, traditional propylene production methods can no longer meet the increasing demands. Therefore,the development of highly efficient propylene production technologies is of vital importance, both scientifically and economically.2 In the past few years, increasing technologies for propylene production have been widely developed, such as propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the methanol-to-olefins (MTO) process, and the FischerTropsch-to-olefins process (Fig. 1a and b). Especially, PDH technology is considered to Cite this: Chem. Soc. Rev., 2021,50, 3315 a Key Laboratory for Green Chemical Technology of Ministry of Education, School of Chemical Engineering & Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China."
[2] "In addition to metals and metal oxides, the modern green chemical industry has made urgent and strict demands for environmentally and economically friendly catalysts, which has seriously restricted the large scale applications of conventional metal-based catalysts, especially pre- cious metal and toxic metal oxides. Alternative carbon-based materials and carbides and nitrides have been investigated widely."
[3] "Although it is generally accepted that numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydro- genation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective. In the propane dehydrogenation system, it is of vital importance to understand the relationship between active-site motifs and unique catalytic behaviors,including dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechan- isms, which can shine a light on precise catalyst design. In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deac- tivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified."
[4] "In addition to metals and metal oxides, the modern green chemical industry has made urgent and strict demands for environmentally and economically friendly catalysts, which has seriously restricted the large scale applications of conventional metal-based catalysts, especially pre- cious metal and toxic metal oxides. Alternative carbon-based materials and carbides and nitrides have been investigated widely."
[5] "Although small particles are inclined to increasing the mount of active sites on the surface, the relative fraction of exposed"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The growing demand for propylene has influenced the development of new production methods, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), because traditional propylene production methods can no longer meet the increasing demands due to the rapid consumption of fossil energy. The development of highly efficient propylene production technologies is of vital importance, both scientifically and economically. PDH technology is considered to be one of the most promising propylene production methods because it is a proprietary method that produces only propylene, not a hybrid product. The understanding of Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts for PDH has evolved, including the ongoing debate about active Ga species and recent research findings that have contributed to our current knowledge of these catalysts. However, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are still unclear and ambiguous in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective. It is of vital importance to understand the relationship between active-site motifs and unique catalytic behaviors, including dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms, which can shine a light on precise catalyst design.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烯需求的不断增长影响了新型丙烯生产方法的发展，特别是丙烷脱氢（PDH），因为传统丙烯生产方法由于化石能源的快速消耗，已无法满足日益增长的需求。开发高效丙烯生产技术在科学和经济上都至关重要。PDH技术被认为是前景最好的丙烯生产方法之一，因为它是一种专有方法，只生产丙烯，而不是混合产品。对Ga/H-ZSM-5催化剂用于PDH的理解已经发展，包括关于活性Ga物种的持续争论以及最近的研究发现，这些发现为我们的当前知识做出了贡献。然而，从基本角度来看，PDH过程中活性位点结构和脱氢机制仍然不清楚和模糊。了解活性位点基序与独特催化行为之间的关系至关重要，包括脱氢途径和失活机制，这可以为精确催化剂设计提供启示。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
