I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


World Patent Information, Vol. 14. No. 1, p. 52, 1992.
Pergamon Press plc Printed in Great Britain Literature Review Abstracts and reviews collected by the International Bureau of WIPO during a scanning of journals concerned with infor- mation retrieval and patent information.
1.
Inhouse-patent databases for medium- sized firms. R. Schmidt, B. Schein and
A. Klas. Inf. Tech. -- 1T (Germany),
Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 276-282, Oct. 1991.
The use of databases in small or medium- sized firms is far below the possibilities offered by technology. The access to databases comprising patent information appears to be quite complex. The paper explains how users can access patent databases with economically-priced soft- ware on their own. After a short market survey the requirements of inhouse patent databases are shown by an example of the program "Patent/iberwachung" which was specially designed for this purpose.
The presentation of the range of appli- cations is followed by a summary and a checklist for the hardware required and the corresponding costs.
2.
Online statistics in patent databases for small and medium-sized enterprises.
K. Koschatzky. Inf. Tech. -- IT (Ger-
many), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 263-268, Oct.
1991. Online statistics in patent databases
offer the possibility to use patent data as a source for technical and market informa- tion. By this it also contributes to a decline in the information gap small and medium- sized enterprises face compared to big companies which have their own patent department. Differences in the capacity of statistical commands make it necessary to discuss advantages and disadvantages of the statistical procedures of different hosts. Based on own experiences, the Fraunhofer Institute for Systems and Innovation Research (ISI), Karlsruhe,has developed a standardized analytical package named "Patent-Statistical Com- petition Analysis". Using online statistics,a deep insight into development trends in certain technology markets becomes poss- ible. Additionally, lists of competitors can be produced and the competitiveness on representative markets can be analysed.
Patent databases should therefore not only be used for legal patent searches,but also as a source for technical and mar- keting information. By adjusting the file structures according to the needs of online statistics, the database producers could also contribute to higher acceptability and diffusion in the utilization of technical and market related patent data.
3.
Critical comparison of patent data- bases. H. Krestel. Inf.
Tech. --
IT
(Germany), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 236-244, Oct. 1991. Patent information has devel- oped to an instrument of management and business in the last few years.
Online patent databases allow searchers to obtain patent information in a quick and easy way. Different hosts offer a
reat variety of patent databases for all inds of questions and purposes. All successful searching in patent databases requires intensive knowledge of database contents and structures, their advantages and failures. The article describes the most important patent databases for German users as there are PATDPA,
PATOS, INPADOC, WPI/WPIL, EPAT
and EDOC. The author discusses whether conventional searching in the original full document can be replaced by online searching in patent databases.
4.
Specialities of patent information. H.
Weigand. Inf. Tech. -- IT (Germany), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 230-235, Oct. 1991.
In the Federal Republic of Germany there are about 50-60 billion DM invested in research and development annually. A part of this amount is lost through unnecessary double developments. The number of technical articles, congress reports, dissertations, patents and also publications doubles about every five years. The analysis of document develop- ment in the patent field must, therefore,be supported.
This can be covered through the users of EDP (Electronic Data Processing) and research done in databases.
5.
Outlook for computerized patent in- formation. G. Giroud. Inf. Tech. --IT (Germany), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 288-292, Oct. 1991. Cooperation between the na- tional patent offices of the member states of the European Patent Organisation and the European Patent Office in the field of patent information is giving Europe a range of options unmatched in either Japan or the USA. Various projects for further computerisation of the EPO's publication systems will create new information media over the next four to five years. National Patent Of- rices, non-commercial libraries and patent reading rooms will play a central role in disseminating patent information to the public and industry, the aim being to increase awareness and utilization of this information, particularly in small and medium-sized firms. The projects will ex- pand and refine existing databases, as well as creating new ones. To stem the flood of paper, patent information is supplied and disseminated primarily in electronic form,whether in EPOQUE's online databases or in ESPACE CD-ROMs. These two media are not competitors; rather they complement and enhance each other.
6.
BeyondCOMPENDEX*PLUS:Asur- vey of selected core engineering compact disc databases. J. Powell. CD-ROM Prof.
(USA), Vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 55-68, Sept.
1991. COMPENDEX*PLUS is frequent-
ly the primary compact disc database that is used in engineering library collections and covers literature representative from virtually all fields of engineering. Scholars in the fields of mechanical, structural and civil engineering are well supported by COMPENDEX*PLUS. However, there are other databases which are far better at providing information for researchers in some other engineering fields, namely electrical, automotive, aerospace, chemi- cal and environmental engineering, com- puter science and materials science. There are still other databases that should not be overlooked by the earlier-mentioned fields of mechanical, structural and civil engineering. The following titles are re- viewed: COMPENDEX*PLUS, INSPEC ONDISC, Applied Science and Tech- nology Index, Science Citation Index Com- pact Disc Edition, Dialog Ondisc: NTIS, Dialog Ondisc: Aerospace Database, Dia- log Ondisc: Metadex Collection: Metals,polymers, ceramics, CITIS CD-ROM- SAFE, CITIS CD-ROM-ICEA, Patents: CASSIS/CD-ROM or Automated Pa- tent Searching on CD-ROM, Arctic and Antarctic regions (AAR) NISC, Water Resources Abstracts, (NICS).
7.
The outline of patent databases in
STN. I. PATDPA, PATGRAPH. I. Yoshi-
kawa.
Joho Kanri (Japan), Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 323-340, July 1991. The paper describes German patent databases on STN, PATDPA and PATGRAPH. EP and PCT applications with Germany as the designation country are recorded in PATDPA. PATDPA contains about
1.90 million patents from 1968 to date.
It enables one to search data on how a patent examination is progressing from application to patent registration. It also enables one to search patent and technical literature referred to. PATDPA search is available in German because all the records contained are in German.
8.
The outline of patent databases in
STN. 3. CA, REGISTRY, other CAS files
and APIPAT. I. Yoshikawa. Joho Kanri (Japan), Vol. 34, No. 6, pp. 525-548, Sept, 1991, 13 ref. For pt. 2 see ibid., Vol. 34, No. 5 (1991). An outline is given of patent databases on STN: CA,
REGISTRY, CAPREVIEWS, CAOLD,
MARPAT and APIPAT. The CAS files group are constructed and serviced by Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), the suborganization of the American Chemi- cal Society. CA contains about 9.7 million records of literatures and REG- ISTRY contains about 11 million records of chemical substances. CAPREVIEWS contains the most recent 15 weeks data before they are recorded on CA. CAOLD contains literatures data recorded on CA before 1967. MARPAT contains patent records expressed by MARKUSH type structure from 1988. APIPAT are constructed and serviced by American Petroleum Institute (API). This file stores about 200 thousand patents on petroleum industry and petrochemical industry. The APIPAT is a limited-access file. 52


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 