<quotes>
[1] "The objective of this work was to gain a better understanding of the influence of Sn on the dispersion of Pt in platinum supported SBA-15 catalysts and thereby on the dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) activity,selectivity to propylene, coking and catalyst stability."
[2] "It is evident from TEOM studies that after 220 min on stream the amount of coke formedis almostthreetimeshigher over Pt-Sn-SBA-15-IW than onits counterpartPt-SBA-15-IW,albeit the former exhibits considerably higher propane conversion, superior selectivity to propylene and stability than the latter."
[3] "However, the nature and activity properties of surface Pt sites in the catalysts are different due to differences in surface roughness (i.e., surface site heterogeneity) of the particles."
[4] "Additionally,catalytic properties of Pt sites are influenced by modification of electronic properties of the same sites by Sn in bimetallic PtSn alloy particles (Pt-Sn-SBA-15-IW)."
[5] "Therefore, in this study we have made an attempt to bring some clarity on the role of Sn."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The primary objective of the research was to explore how tin impacts the dispersion of platinum in SBA-15 catalysts and consequently affects propane dehydrogenation (PDH) performance, including activity, propylene selectivity, coke formation, and catalyst stability.

2. The amount of coke produced during PDH over the Pt-Sn-SBA-15 catalyst was nearly three times higher than that produced over the Pt-SBA-15 catalyst after 220 minutes of operation, despite the former demonstrating significantly greater propane conversion, higher propylene selectivity, and improved stability.

3. The surface properties of platinum sites in the catalysts differ because of variations in the surface roughness (i.e., surface site heterogeneity) among the particles.

4. The catalytic properties of the platinum sites are altered by the electronic properties of the same sites when they are part of a bimetallic platinum-tin alloy (Pt-Sn-SBA-15).

5. The study aimed to clarify the role of tin in PDH catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究的主要目标是探索锡在SBA-15催化剂中对铂的分散性的影响，并进一步分析丙烷脱氢（PDH）性能，包括活性、丙烯选择性、焦炭生成和催化剂稳定性。

2. 在PDH过程中，使用Pt-Sn-SBA-15催化剂产生的焦炭量几乎是使用Pt-SBA-15催化剂产生的三倍，在220分钟后，尽管前者表现出显著更高的丙烷转化率、更高的丙烯选择性和更好的稳定性。

3. 催化剂中的铂位表面性质因粒子表面粗糙度（即表面位点异质性）的变化而不同。

4. 当铂位是铂锡双金属合金（Pt-Sn-SBA-15）的一部分时，相同的位点的电子性质会改变其催化特性。

5. 本研究旨在阐明锡在PDH催化剂中的作用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
