<quotes>
[1] "The co-reaction of cyclic alkenes with acyclic alkenes in the presence of systems WOC14/Al(C2H5)Cl and WOClk(C4H9)4 leads to a telomerization of the cyclic alkene; at the ends of the telomers are fixed two groups, identical or different, derived from the acyclic alkene through a non-consecutive reaction."
[2] "In particular, cyclopentene and cyclooctene have been studied on one hand, pentene-2, pentene-1, butene-2, and propylene on the other."
[3] "The cyclooctadiene-1.5 and cyclododecatriene-1.5,9 react with pentene-2, as a =CH-CH2-CHz-CH= unit, in a non-consecutive reaction."
[4] "The distribution of the telomers obeys a statistical law."
[5] "We have proposed a reaction scheme in agreement with the observed facts in the disproportionation of acyclic alkenes, the polymerization of cyclic alkenes, and the telomerization of cyclic alkenes by acyclic alkenes."
[6] "The behavior of alkenes towards tungsten and molybdenum compounds, whether in homogeneous or heterogeneous catalysis, is characterized by: a) in the case of cyclic alkenes, by the formation of mass molecular polymers by opening of the cycle (polyalkanes): b) in the case of acyclic alkenes, by a disproportionation reaction (also known as metathesis D or dismutation):"
[7] "The schema reactionnel assumes the existence of an intermediate ((quasi-cyclobutane > > which has also been invoked to interpret the polymerization of cyclic alkenes, well that the principle of total symmetry of four carbons does not agree with the molecular masses of the polymers."
[8] "We have used the terms: a) conversion of the disproportionation reaction (molar ratio): X monoalkenes acyclic formed X monoalkenes acyclic total D = 100"
[9] "The reaction mixture is composed by triads of increasing carbon condensation: a) the first triad is made up of monomers that form in the disproportionation reaction (butenes/pentenes/hexenes); b) the second triad is made up of dienes containing 5 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; c) the third triad is made up of trienes containing 10 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; d) the fourth triad is made up of tetraenes containing 15 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; e) the fifth triad is made up of pentaenes containing 20 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad."
[10] "The number of heavy products increases from 2 to over 30."
[11] "We have resorted to three types of analysis: infrared spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, and gas chromatography."
[12] "The reaction mixture is composed by triads of increasing carbon condensation: a) the first triad is made up of monomers that form in the disproportionation reaction (butenes/pentenes/hexenes); b) the second triad is made up of dienes containing 5 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; c) the third triad is made up of trienes containing 10 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; d) the fourth triad is made up of tetraenes containing 15 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad; e) the fifth triad is made up of pentaenes containing 20 atoms of carbon more than each of the alkenes of the first triad."
[13] "The products form in a quantitative manner, despite the irregularities due to analytical difficulties, the products form in simple molar ratios: within each of the triads, and for increasing carbon condensations, this ratio is approximately constant and close to 1/2/1."
[14] "The reaction proceeds as if the different heavy products derive from the combination of a molecule of each of the products resulting from the disproportionation reaction of the acyclic alkene (butenes/pentenes/hexenes) and one or several molecules of the cyclic alkene."
[15] "This representation is not in contradiction with the ensemble of previous observations, especially with the formation of macrocycles by a degradation of polyalkanes in the presence of catalysts based on tungsten, or again with the fact that intramolecular transfer reactions can become predominant with certain catalytic systems."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Analyzing the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves understanding the roles of both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.

In the presence of systems WOC14/Al(C2H5)Cl and WOClk(C4H9)4, the co-reaction of cyclic alkenes with acyclic alkenes leads to telomerization, where two groups, identical or different, derived from the acyclic alkene are fixed at the ends of the telomers. Cyclopentene, cyclooctene, pentene-2, pentene-1, butene-2, and propylene were specifically studied. In the case of cyclooctadiene-1.5 and cyclododecatriene-1.5,9 reacting with pentene-2 forms a =CH-CH2-CHz-CH= unit in a non-consecutive reaction. The distribution of telomers follows a statistical law, and a reaction scheme was proposed that aligns with the observed facts in the disproportionation of acyclic alkenes, polymerization of cyclic alkenes, and telomerization of cyclic alkenes by acyclic alkenes.

The behavior of alkenes towards tungsten and molybdenum compounds in both homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis is characterized by the formation of mass molecular polymers by opening the cycle in the case of cyclic alkenes and a disproportionation reaction in the case of acyclic alkenes. A schema reactionnel was suggested that assumes the existence of an intermediate, quasi-cyclobutane, which is also relevant to interpreting the polymerization of cyclic alkenes.

Key intermediates in the process include alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, contributing to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. The number of heavy products increases significantly, and their formation can be tracked through infrared spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, and gas chromatography. The reaction follows a pattern of forming triads with increasing carbon condensation, with the ratio of the first triad being approximately constant and close to 1/2/1.

The representation provided aligns with the ensemble of previous observations, particularly in the formation of macrocycles through the degradation of polyalkanes in the presence of tungsten-based catalysts, and the predominance of intramolecular transfer reactions in certain catalytic systems.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
分析由硅基支持的钽氢化物催化下的烷烃甲基化全面机制，需要理解两站点和单站点方案的角色，线性与环烷烃转化过程，关键中间体（如烯烃和金属环丁烷）的形成和作用，以及这些因素如何促进反应选择性和催化剂在各种烷烃转换中的性能。

在系统 WOC14/Al(C2H5)Cl 和 WOClk(C4H9)4 的存在下，环烷烃与非环烷烃的共反应导致了链终止化，其中从非环烷烃衍生的两个相同的或不同的组分固定在链终止物的两端。研究了环戊烯、环辛烯、戊烯-2、戊烯-1、丁烯-2 和丙烯。在环辛二烯-1.5 和环十二碳三烯-1.5、9 与戊烯-2 反应时，形成 =CH-CH2-CHz-CH= 单位，在一个非连续反应中。链终止物的分布遵循统计定律，并提出了一种与观察到的事实相吻合的反应方案，这些事实涉及非环烷烃的不均衡化、环烷烃的聚合和环烷烃的链终止化由非环烷烃。

烯烃在钨和钼化合物在均相和非均相催化作用下的行为被描述为：a) 在环烷烃的情况下，通过打开周期生成大分子聚合物；b) 在非环烷烃的情况下，通过不均衡化反应（也称为甲基化 D 或分解）。提出了一个假设的反应中间体，即准环丁烷，用于解释环烷烃的聚合。

关键中间体包括烯烃和金属环丁烷，在反应选择性和催化剂性能方面起着重要作用。随着反应的进行，重产物的数量显著增加，并可通过红外光谱、质谱和气相色谱进行跟踪。形成了具有递增碳凝集的三元组，第一个三元组的比例约为恒定且接近 1/2/1。

提供的表示与先前观察的结果一致，特别是通过钨基催化剂降解聚烷烃形成宏环的情况，以及某些催化体系中内分子转移反应成为主导的情况。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
