<quotes>

:. :. ."
ELSEVIER
Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 143-172
A
P
P
L
I
E
D
C
A
T
A
L
Y
S
I
S
"
A: GENERAL
Review V-Sb-oxide catalysts for the ammoxidation of propane Gabriele Centi*, Siglinda Perathoner, Ferruccio Trifirb Dip. di Chimica lndustriale e dei Materiali, V.le Risorgimento 4, 40136 Bologna, Italy Abstract V-Sb-oxide catalysts are claimed in several patents as the active components for a new process of direct acrylonitrile synthesis from propane. In this review the main catalytic, kinetic and mechanistic features of these catalysts are discussed with reference to the role of vanadium as the key component. Specific topics discussed include: (i) nature of the phases present in V-Sb-oxide catalysts, their modification during the catalytic reaction and nature of the non-stoichiometry of vanadium antimonate, (ii) catalytic and kinetic behavior as well as some specific aspects which characterize their reactivity, (iii) structure-activity and selectivity relationships, and (iv) reaction mechanism, influence on the surface reactivity of chemisorbed species (ammonia, in particular) and presence of competitive pathways of transformation.
Keywords: Propane; Acrylonitrile; V-Sb-oxides; Vanadium; Antimony
1. Introduction
Acrylonitrile is a widely used chemical with a production of over five million tons per year principally by catalytic heterogeneous gas phase ammoxidation of propene. The cost of the hydrocarbon feedstock has a significant effect on the overall production cost and this fact drives the search for alternative processes using less costly raw materials [1]. The use of propane in place of propene is the natural choice for an alternative process [2-4], due to the significant price difference between the two hydrocarbons:
CH3-CH2-CH3
+ NH3 + 202
CH2=CH-CN
+ 4H20
(AH = - 151 kcal/mol) * Corresponding author. Present address: Dip. Chirnica Industriale, Salita Sperone 31, 98166 Messina, Italy;fax: +39 90 391518; e-mail: centi@scirocco.unime.it. 0926-860X/97/$17.00  1997 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII S0926-860X(97)000 13-6
144
G. Centi et al./Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 143-172

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

The document discusses the catalytic, kinetic, and mechanistic features of V-Sb-oxide catalysts for the ammoxidation of propane. It highlights the role of vanadium as the key component. The main topics covered include the nature of the phases present in V-Sb-oxide catalysts, their modification during catalytic reactions, the nature of the non-stoichiometry of vanadium antimonate, the catalytic and kinetic behavior of the catalysts, the structure-activity and selectivity relationships, and the reaction mechanism. The presence of competitive pathways of transformation and the influence of ammonia on the surface reactivity are also discussed. Propane is highlighted as a cheaper alternative to propene for the synthesis of acrylonitrile.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

本文讨论了用于丙烷氨氧化合成丙烯腈的V-Sb-氧化物催化剂的催化、动力学和机制特性。强调了五氧化二钒作为关键成分的作用。主要讨论内容包括V-Sb-氧化物催化剂中所存在的相态性质、催化反应中的相态变化、五氧化二锑的非化学计量性、催化剂的催化和动力学行为、结构-活性和选择性关系、反应机制，以及表面活性物种（尤其是氨）对表面反应性的影响。还讨论了竞争性转化途径的存在，并分析了氨对表面反应性的调控。将丙烷视为合成丙烯腈的更经济选择，与丙烯相比价格较低。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
