6 Conclusions and Emerging Areas of Research
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Because of their widespread use as feedstock in the chemical industry, the demand for olefins is expected to remain high for the foreseeable future. Additionally, the recent surge in shale gas production has rendered the cost of natural gas very economical as compared to that of crude oil. Therefore, alternative methods for obtaining olefins, dehydrogenation and MTO, have become very competitive relative to more traditional methods, such as fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. Indeed, dozens of new PDH projects have been announced in the past few years. The installations proposed or being built will employ either CrOx/Al2O3 (Catofin) or Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (Oleflex) catalysts. These catalysts and technologies have been advanced to a point where the reaction can be run continuously for several years. Nevertheless, current dehydrogenation technologies still offer room for improvement, and thus further advances are needed to lower noble metal loading, increase catalyst stability, and/or improve the energy efficiency of the dehydrogenation process. Moreover, steps will need to be taken to overcome the reactions biggest drawbacks, that is, the limited equilibrium conversion and the prevalence of side reactions at high temperatures.
Although alternative catalysts, most notably metal oxides such as GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, have received significant attention over the last decades, a practicable alternative to the Pt–Sn and CrOx systems has not yet been developed. Indeed, these alternative formulations deactivate too fast, mainly due to coke deposition and to the fact that their activity cannot be fully recovered by a regeneration step. Thus, further research will also be necessary to address these issues.
Nevertheless, advancements can also be expected in other areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation does not have the thermodynamic limitations shown by nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Because an oxidant combusts the hydrogen formed during reaction, full conversion of the paraffin can be achieved. O2 and CO2 have been the most investigated oxidizing agents, each having distinct advantages and disadvantages. In the case of O2, coke deposition is nonexistent, the reaction temperature can be lowered to about 400 °C, and the dehydrogenation reaction becomes exothermic (H2 + 1/2O2 ↔ H2O (ΔH2980 = −242 kJ mol–1)). Nevertheless, new challenges arise as overoxidation of the hydrocarbons in the feed must be avoided to maintain high olefin selectivity. (252, 329, 330) CO2, being a much milder oxidant, can effectively consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions, although it is not reactive enough to oxidize the hydrocarbons in the reaction mixture. However, much less heat is formed when CO2 is used, so the dehydrogenation reaction remains endothermic (H2 + CO2 ↔ H2O + CO (ΔH2980 = 41 kJ mol–1)), as the RWGS does not provide enough heat to compensate for the highly endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. The cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse water–gas shift reaction. On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2. Finally, CO2 competitively adsorbs on the surface, specifically on the basic sites of the catalyst materials, which can negatively affect their performance. (162, 175, 331) In short, finding a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent will be pivotal in the development of an effective reaction system for the oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.
An alternative solution lies in the use of solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, and BiO3, capable of selectively oxidizing the hydrogen evolved by the SHC reaction. (332-334) Noble metals, such as Pt and Au, can also catalyze the SHC process, but in this case oxygen is cofed to facilitate the hydrogen combustion. (335, 336) Because the SHC reaction consumes the lattice oxygen of metal oxide catalysts, the latter require frequent regeneration with oxygen. Moreover, the reaction rate is relatively low and some of these metal oxides are highly toxic. These issues need to be resolved for this approach to become viable for industrial application.
Another method of removing the hydrogen from the reaction mixture is the introduction of membranes to the reactor system. This approach allows hydrogen to diffuse out of the reactor, shifting the equilibrium toward the desired olefin product. (337-344) A large variety of membranes have been investigated, such as Pd-coated mesoporous alumina, Pt–Ag composites, and membranes involving either molybdenum- or carbon-based molecular sieves. The inverse relationship between permeability and selectivity of the membranes is a serious problem, as both qualities are desired. Catalyst deactivation represents an additional challenge, as coke deposition increases when the hydrogen partial pressure drops. Nevertheless, nearly all studies report increased olefin yields when a membrane system is used.
It is very important to heed the interplay between catalyst deactivation and regeneration in industrial settings. Indeed, for both the Pt and the CrOx formulations used industrially, the elimination of coke from the surface of the spent catalysts may result in irreversible catalyst deactivation if the regeneration conditions are not carefully controlled. Currently, this is done in a very crude manner, by monitoring the gas composition at the reactor outlet. However, recent reports suggest that in the near future, operando spectroscopy will provide the means for more sophisticated process control. (198) Indeed, Raman/UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor noninvasively the amount and type of coke as the latter forms and accumulates on the catalyst surface. (173, 180, 345, 346) As is shown in Figure 33, spatiotemporal differences in the coke deposition on a catalyst bed consisting of CrOx/Al2O3 extrudates were visualized in a pilot scale reactor using two UV–vis probes, which collected spectra in a continuous fashion during propane dehydrogenation. (198) Coke deposition was observed to occur faster at the top of the catalyst bed, which was attributed to the temperature gradient measured in the reactor. Furthermore, coke combustion proceeded in an inhomogeneous fashion, coke at the top of the catalyst bed being combusted first.

These measurements show that the duration of the dehydrogenation and regeneration phases could be dynamically adjusted to keep the catalyst in its most active state, as moderate amounts of coke are believed to assist the dehydrogenation reaction while excessive amounts lead to catalyst deactivation (vide supra). The latter would undoubtedly represent an improvement to the way in which reversible deactivation is currently addressed. As an additional advantage, UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor the long-term irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. Indeed, because the relative amounts of active chromia and of chromium that has become irreversibly deactivated due to its migration into the support can be measured by UV–vis spectroscopy, this technique provides a means to determine when the catalyst needs replacing.
This analysis has been taken a step further by designing, constructing, and testing probes for operando Raman spectroscopy, which were used to obtain information on the chemical nature of the coke deposits formed during reaction. Furthermore, by using the operando UV–vis spectra as a measure for catalyst darkening, a quantitative analysis of the coke deposits could be performed during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction by operando Raman spectroscopy. (49, 180, 346)
Therefore, the monitoring of industrial chromia–alumina catalysts by combined time-resolved UV–vis and Raman spectroscopies can be employed to improve the overall efficiency of future alkane dehydrogenation processes.
