<quotes>

[1] "Hierarchically porous zeolites combining the intrinsic micropores with an auxiliary meso- and/or macropore network of inter- or intracrystalline structure, exhibiting an unimpeded transport path (macropores) and enhanced micropore accessibility (mesopores) without sacrificing their intrinsic catalytic activity (micropores), show great potential in a wide range of catalytic reactions, such as alkylation, acylation, rearrangement, FischerTropsch synthesis, hydroconversion, oxidation, methanol conversions, cracking, and biomass conversion."
[2] "The in situ approach creates hierarchical zeolites by fabricating microporous and mesoporous products with or without the employment of secondary hard or soft templates during zeolite synthesis."
[3] "The postsynthetic approach concerns the post-treatment of the as-synthesized zeolites to introduce a hierarchical structure into zeolites."
[4] "The large variety of synthetic strategies for the construction of pore hierarchy can be divided into in situ and postsynthetic approaches."
[5] "The in situ approach creates hierarchical zeolites by fabricating microporous and mesoporous products with or without the employment of secondary hard or soft templates during zeolite synthesis."
[6] "The postsynthetic approach concerns the post-treatment of the as-synthesized zeolites to introduce a hierarchical structure into zeolites."
[7] "The hard templating route involves the use of either nonporous or porous solid materials with a relatively rigid structure usually used as sacrificial templates to create the additional porosity during zeolite crystallization."
[8] "The soft templating route uses silylated polymers, hydrophilic cationic polymers, cationic organosilanes, and surfactants to create mesopores within zeolites."
[9] "The indirect templating route synthesizes hierarchical zeolite materials by partial zeolite crystallization of a mesoporous material or by the deposition of microporous zeolites onto a mesoporous skeleton."
[10] "Hierarchically porous zeolites show great potential in a wide range of catalytic reactions, such as alkylation, acylation, rearrangement, FischerTropsch synthesis, hydroconversion, oxidation, methanol conversions, cracking, and biomass conversion."
[11] "Hierarchically porous zeolites also show exceptional sorption characteristics useful for the environmental benefits (wastewater treatment, adsorptive desulfurization, CO2 capture, and removal of volatile organic compounds) together with carrier qualities that enable them to be desirable hosts in biological applications."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Hierarchical zeolites combine micropores and meso-/macropores to enhance accessibility for PDH reactions by providing unimpeded transport paths (macropores) and enhanced micropore accessibility (mesopores) without sacrificing intrinsic catalytic activity (micropores). This structure improves performance in a wide range of catalytic reactions, including PDH, by facilitating reactant and product diffusion.
2.The main types of hierarchical zeolites are those with micro-mesoporous, micro-macroporous, and micro-meso-macroporous structures. Synthesis methods include in situ templating, post-synthetic modification, hard templating, soft templating, and indirect templating.
3.Hierarchical zeolites improve the performance of PDH reactions compared to traditional zeolites by providing enhanced mass transport properties, improved utilization effectiveness, and minimized energy, time, and raw materials consumption. They also offer exceptional sorption characteristics for environmental benefits and carrier qualities for biological applications.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.层次孔沸石通过结合微孔和中/大孔来增强PDH反应的可及性，提供无阻碍的传输路径（大孔）和增强的微孔可及性（中孔），同时不牺牲其固有的催化活性（微孔）。这种结构通过促进反应物和产物的扩散，改善了包括PDH在内的广泛催化反应的性能。
2.层次孔沸石的主要类型包括微-中孔、微-大孔和微-中-大孔结构。合成方法包括原位模板法、后合成改性、硬模板法、软模板法和间接模板法。
3.与传统沸石相比，层次孔沸石通过提供增强的质量传输性能、改善的利用效率以及最小化能源、时间和原材料消耗，提高了PDH反应的性能。它们还提供了出色的吸附特性，用于环境效益，并具有生物应用中的载体品质。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
