DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201000059
The Merits of Static and Dynamic High-Resolution Electron
Microscopy (HREM) for the Study of Solid Catalysts**
Sir John Meurig Thomas* and Paul A. Midgley*[a]
Dedicated to Elmar Zeitler, an innovator and pioneer
Introduction
There has been a number of recent reviews dealing with the
subject of the article;[1–6] but such is the pace of change in
technical improvements of the microscopes themselves, and in
the specimen stages that have been devised to cope with
in situ and other studies, that it is timely to outline some key
recent developments which, we believe, have already added
significantly to our knowledge of solid catalysts and which are
likely to contribute further both to progress in understanding
catalytic action of known catalysts and in pointing the way to
the formulation of new ones.
The types of catalysts that we focus upon are of two main
kinds: those that are of the oxide-supported precious-metal or
transition-metal variety; and those that are either microporous
or mesoporous solids of zeolitic or more generally nanoporous
variety. The first of these entails detailed study of the number
of metal atoms (or metal clusters) in a particular entity and its
mode of attachment to the support; the second is concerned
with the bulk structure of the solid catalyst because, in such
solids, there are 3-dimensional surfaces, and a knowledge of
global structure discloses insights into the nature of the cata-
lytically active sites because these are embedded in, and are
an integral part of the nanostructured solid.
So far as ‘static’ studies of catalysts are concerned, the single
most important development that has taken place recently is
the increasing availability of aberration-corrected (AC) electron
microscopes. New possibilities with aberration-corrected elec-
tron microscopes was the subject of a recent, comprehensive
Royal Society Discussion,[7] in which all the major technical de-
velopments, encompassing both spherical and chromatic aber-
ration, were initially assessed by leading investigations in the
field. Indeed, one stalwart investigator, who pioneered the
general use of electron microscopes fifty years ago, recently
expressed[8] the opinion that the quest to understand more
about the nature and mode of action of catalyst is now the
single most important factor responsible for the ever increas-
ing deployment of AC microscopes. However, in addition to
this fact, specialized approaches involving electron tomogra-
phy, electron holography, and precession electron diffraction,
not to mention the growing use of computational assistance,
such as exit-wave reconstruction, are now widely used even
with microscopes that are not fitted with aberration correc-
tions.
Turning to dynamic electron microscopy (EM), it is well-rec-
ognized that considerable progress in unraveling catalytic
action has been registered using video-rate speeds (i.e., with
time-resolutions in the millisecond range), especially in envi-
ronmental (E-TEM) studies reported by Gai et al.,[1] by Hansen
and others.[3] Of late, nanosecond time-revolution using in situ
dynamic transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies have
been reported by La Grange et al.[9] However, another major
development is the so-called 4D electron microscopy, pio-
neered by Zewail,[10] which has opened up fresh possibilities in
the future study of solid catalysts and related materials, some
of which we adumbrate later.
The Merits of Being Able to Image Individual
Metal Atoms and Metal Cluster Catalysts
Prior to the arrival of AC-high-resolution microscopes it was ex-
tremely difficult, if not possible, to detect and identify individu-
al atoms or small clusters of supported metal atom catalysts
Within the last decade there have been major advances in the
deployment of electron microscopy for the elucidation of solid
catalysts. Some of these have been technical (instrumental),
like the arrival of aberration-corrected lenses and of new kinds
of in situ stages for solid–gas and solid–liquid studies. Others
have been largely conceptual, such as precession electron dif-
fraction, to provide diffraction intensities suitable for crystallo-
graphic studies, or like the revolutionary approach of Zewail
and colleagues in using 4D electron microscopy which, with its
ability to reach picometer spatial resolution coupled with fem-
tosecond time resolution, augurs well for future studies. Many
major advances registered within the past few years are high-
lighted in this article and along with their significance.
[a] Prof. J. M. Thomas, Prof. P. A. Midgley
Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy
University of Cambridge, Pembroke Street, Cambridge, CB2 3QZ (UK)
Fax: (+44)1223-334-567
E-mail: jmt2@cam.ac.uk
pam33@cam.ac.uk
[**] Based in part on the plenary lecture given by JMT at the 1st International
Symposium on Advanced Electron Microscopy for Catalysis and Energy
Storage Materials, Fritz-Haber Institute, Berlin, 14–17 January 2010.
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
783
even under optimal conditions. Figure 1, taken from the work
of Calvino and co-workers on Rh/CeO2 catalysts[11] illustrates
this fact clearly.
Nowadays, however, it had become almost routine to image
individual, as well as small clusters of, metal atoms on supports
such as carbon, Al2O3, SiO2, and TiO2 (Figure 2).
The consequences of improved resolution are manifold.
Firstly, it is now increasingly argued that it is not the nano-
structures (nanoparticles of 3–10 nm diameter) in systems such
as supported Au or Pt (on CeO2 and after oxides) that are the
loci of catalytic activity, but, instead, catalytic activity is
thought to be located at much smaller entities, possibly con-
sisting of one or a few individual metal atoms (i.e., see
Ref. [16] , the work of Flytzani-Stephanopoulos et al.[17] and the
work of Kwak et al.[14] shown in Figure 2c, in which the single
atoms of Pt are anchored directly to Al ions at the surface of
the Al2O3 support).
Aberration correction has the effect of not only improving
the resolution of the image but also, through the near-elimina-
tion of delocalization, the interpretability of image contrast. A
key example of this second benefit is the work of Su et al.
using AC-HREM to investigate the atomic structure of the sur-
face of Ag particles, revealing terraces, steps, and edges.[18]
The work of Herzing et al.[19] came to the conclusion that, in
the Au/FeOx system for the low-temperature oxidation of CO
in O2 to CO2, it was a bilayer of eight Au atoms that was the
catalytically active entity. The question of how small must the
clusters of Au be to effect this particular catalytic reaction has
recently been examined by Liu et al.[20] Their approach was to
prepare Au nanoclusters by the colloidal deposition method.
They ensured that, in testing the performance of their Au/
FeOOH catalysts, all the organic species shrouding the colloidal
nanoparticles were burnt away during preliminary oxidation
(Figure 3).
They then investigated the resulting Au nanoparticles using
AC-HREM, during the course of which they identified individual
atoms of Au, which then enabled them to calibrate the intensi-
ty of a single Au atom. By examining minute nanoclusters sys-
Figure 1. A) Structural models of {111}-truncated cuboctahedron Rh particles
on a CeO2 surface; the numbers indicate the number of atoms within the
particle (after Bernal et al.[11]); B) Images calculated at 50 and 70 nm defocus
for the different supercells contained in (A). The electron–optical parameters
characteristic of a JEOL 2000EX have been used for the calculations (after
Bernal et al.[11]). Reprinted from Ref. [11] with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 2. Examples of minute nanoclusters, including individual atoms, on
various supports: a) Au on titania;[12] b) Au on activated carbon[13] (image
courtesy of C. J. Kiely); c) Pt on alumina;[14] d) image (left) and X-ray analysis
(right) of Ru5PtSn on mesoporous silica: triangles Ru, squares Pt, circles
Sn.[15] Reprinted from Ref. [14] with permission from AAAS and from
Ref. [15].
Figure 3. CO Oxidation curves of the Au/FeOOH catalyst studied by Lui et al.
(Ref. [20]), in which the nanoclusters of Au were prepared by a colloidal
method. The 1st curve shows a much slower rate of oxidation because the
Au nanoclusters are still covered by an organic stabilizer. Once that is re-
moved by oxidation, the catalyst exhibits remarkably high activity, with 50%
CO oxidation occurring at about 108C (2nd and 3rd curves).
784
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
tematically, and recording the integrated intensity of each
atom column, they concluded that their nanoparticles (of ap-
proximate size 2.10.5 nm in diameter) were roughly spherical
in shape, and of heights up to four or so atoms. Their further
conclusion was that, contrary to the statement of Herzig
et al.,[19] bilayer gold clusters are not mandatory to obtain high
activity.
So significant is this work that Liu et al., in the light of the
continuing debate pertaining to the root cause of exception,
that it now seems desirable that carefully designed experi-
ments, using mass-selected minute clusters of Au are prepared
(in the manner of Bernhardt et al.[21] or Li et al.,[22] or Tsukuda,
in more detail later) so that such monodisperse preparations
of Aun (n=1,2,… etc. up to 10 or so) could then be systemati-
cally tested for various catalytic reactions.
Elucidating the Nature of Complex Mo–V–(Nb,
Ta)–(Te, Sb)–O Selective Oxidation Catalysts by
Dark-Field Microscopy
Selective oxidation catalysts, capable of converting propane
(by ammoxidation) to acrylonitrile,[23] are extremely complicat-
ed structurally (see below). It was only after the arrival of Riet-
veld’s method of refinement of X-ray powder diffractograms
that it became possible to determine the atomic positions
within these complex oxides, a procedure which gained in reli-
ability with the availability of variable wavelength, highly mon-
ochromatized synchrotron X-ray sources.[24] Of late, however,
thanks to the use of aberration-connected high resolution
scanning
transmission
electron
microscopy
(AC-HRSTEM),
deeper insights, and precise structure information have been
retrieved pertaining to these complex oxides.
Before proceeding to outline how such insights have been
gained, we first recall some relevant background facts. Firstly,
for the selective oxidation and ammoxidation of propane, sev-
eral families of vanadium-containing oxides, such as the Mo–
V–W–O, the Mo–V–Nb–Sb–O, and the Mo–V–Nb–Te–O sys-
tems[25–29] have been identified as particularly promising cata-
lysts for acrylic acid and acrylonitrile production. Secondly, one
of the most promising[24,25] of these catalysts is the two-phase
Mo–V–Nb–Te–O system, commonly referred to as the M1/M2
system. A detailed model of the (more important) M1 struc-
ture, which has the composition {TeO}0.94(Mo7.8V12Nb)O28, based
on a simultaneous Rietveld refinement of high-resolution X-ray
and neutron powder diffraction data has been reported.[24] The
{TeO} entities are accommodated into the channels formed by
rings of corner-shared transition-metal octahedra. The third
point to emphasize is that the difficulty plaguing the structure
refinements of such complex materials is that the model may
have up to approximately 200 adjustable parameters, requiring
very high-quality diffraction data and a suitable starting model
with imposed constraints to ensure an acceptable and con-
verging refinement. Lastly, a representation of the structure
(projected along [001]) of the M1 phase of this complex oxide
is shown in Figure 4. It is a fortunate fact that the unit cell
repeat distance along the c-axis is 4.02  (the thickness of one
octahedron effectively). This is a most favorable situation for
(high angle annular dark field) HAADF images to be recorded
along the [001] direction.
Figure 5 compares the projected images (by HREM) of the
M1 phase taken with a conventional microscope (with and
without aberration correction). A quantitative comparison of
the x,y coordinates derived from the HAADF image with the
Rietveld method is depicted in Figure 6. Because there is only
a single layer of octahedra in the repeat distance, there are no
overlapping crystallographically distinct metal sites. This allows
for the direct extraction of x and y atomic coordinates from
the HAADF images. The comparison between the HAADF-
based x,y coordinates with those from the Rietveld-refined
model reveals good agreement with discrepancies in atomic
positions that are less than 0.3 . With such samples as the M1
phase, there is a major advantage in using high-resolution
HAADF imaging because, to a first approximation, the image
contrast scales with the square of Z, the atomic number. A
comparison of the expected contrast ratios from the (Rietveld)
refines M1 model and HAADF images is shown in Figure 7; and
Figure 4. Representation of the structure (projected along [001]) of the M1
complex oxide (see text) composed of Mo, V, Nb, Te, and oxygen.[25] Reprint-
ed from Ref. [25]. Green: Mo5+/V4+, Red: Mo6+/V5+, Yellow: Te4+, Pink:
Mo6+/Mo5+, Teal: Mo5+, Orange: Nb5+, Purple: Mo6+.
Figure 5. Comparison of the projected EM image of a thin section of the M1
phase along [001] taken with a conventional high-resolution STEM (left) and
an AC-STEM (right). Colour code as in Figure 4. Note the occurrence of
empty heptagonal and hexagonal channels.[25] Reprinted from Ref. [25].
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
785
The Study of Solid Catalysts
it is seen that most of the measured intensities follow the
trends in the site occupancies predicted by the Rietveld
model.
Buttrey has recently reported that, in his investigation of the
structural subtleties exhibited by M1 phases in which Ta re-
placed Nb, there are definite indications of there being misci-
bility gaps in the solid-state.[30] To what extent such gaps may
have catalytic significance remains to be discovered. Buttrey
and his colleagues have also uncovered three distinct Mo–V–O
motifs in the complex (selective oxidation) catalysts, which are
depicted in Figure 8.[30]
There is no known in situ technique for probing the individ-
ual and collective roles of the various redox systems (e.g.,
MoVI/MoV and VV/VIV) during the actual course of the cascade of
catalytic processes from CH3CH2CH3 to CH3CH2CHO and to
CH2=CHCOOH.
Clarifying the Nature and Designing Superior
Supported Oxide-on Oxide, Solid-Acid Cata-
lysts. The Case of WOx on ZrO2
It has long been known that tungsten oxide supported on zir-
conia is a good catalyst for isomerizing light alkanes (C4 to C8)
through the intermediacy of surface protons. Much, however,
remains to be learnt about this kind of catalyst. In particular,
what is the precise nature and optimum size of the clusters of
WO3 (generally designated WOx) when bound to a ZrO2 sup-
port (Scheme 1)? Is the most active catalyst one that has mon-
otungstate or polytungstate moieties at the surface?
By ingenious application of HAADF-STEM investigations,
Kiely and co-workers[31] have identified the key active site, and
have thereby been led to design a superior catalyst. Their work
is, in essence, summarized in Figures 9 and 10, in which both
mono- and poly-tungstate entities supported on ZrO2 are
Figure 6. Plot showing the fractional coordinates of the Rietveld model plot-
ted against the experimentally determined coordinates measured directly
from raw high resolution (STEM HAADF) images. Note how small the error
lines are (after Pyrz et al. Ref. [25]). Reprinted from Ref. [25].
Figure 7. Comparison of occupancies derived from HAADF-STEM with those
obtained by Rietveld refinement. Normalization was achieved with reference
to complete occupancy of Nb in the Nb 9 site. Discrepencies for the occu-
pancies of the Te sites are expected, owing to sublimation of this element
under electron irradiation (after Pyrz et al.[25]). Reprinted from Ref. [25].
Figure 8. Ideal two-dimensional 22 unit cells for three MoVO structures:
M1 type (left); Mo5O14 type (center); and the trigonal form (right) (after Pyrz
et al.[25]) Reprinted from Ref. [25].
Scheme 1. Representation of mono-tungstate (left) and poly-tungstate enti-
ties supported on oxide surfaces.[31] Reprinted from Ref. [31] with permission
from Macmillan Publishers Ltd.
Figure 9. HAADF STEM image of supported WOx/ZrO2 catalysts. a) A poorly
performing catalyst. b) A highly active catalyst. Small circles indicate isolated
mono-tungstate species, each containing a single W atom; squares indicate
surface poly-tungstate species having a 2D network with several W atoms
being linked via oxygen bridges; large circles indicate the Zr-WOx nanoclus-
ters.[31] Reprinted from Ref. [31] with permission from Macmillan Publishers
Ltd.
786
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
clearly visible (through the utilization of a 200 kV JEOL 2200FS
(STEM) microscope equipped with a CEOS probe Cs-corrector).
The caption to Figure 9 states the facts pertaining to the va-
riety of sizes of WOx clusters that are present at a ZrO2 surface.
But images such as that circled in Figure 10 clearly reveal (from
the intensities of the octahedrally arranged M (where M is
either W or Zr) centers) that small Zr-WOx clusters exist at the
surface of high-activity samples. By deliberately altering the
support
of
the
introduced
WO3
units
(from
ZrO2
to
ZrOx(OH)42x), Kiely and co-workers could boost the quantity of
Zr-WOx entities at the surface, thereby greatly improving the
performance of the resulting solid as an acidic catalyst in, for
example, the dehydration of methanol to yield dimethyl and
ether. As it has subsequently been pointed out by Weckhuy-
sen,[32] the exact role of the minute amounts of Zr incorporated
into the subnanometer Zr-WO3 cluster awaits clarification (by
spectroscopic, computational, and kinetic means). It has also
been pointed out that metal oxide catalysts consisting of ZrO2
and TiO2 as supports frequently outperform those composed
of SiO2 or Al2O3 supports. In part, this may well be due to elec-
tronic factors: silica and alumina are insulators and are less
readily oxidized or reduced in comparison with TiO2 or ZrO2.
But it now seems prudent to probe afresh (by HAADF STEM)
subnanometer entities of V–Ti, V–Zr and Cr–Zr clusters in cases
in which hydrated oxide supports are used.
Electron Crystallography and its Application to
the Determination of the Structure of a Com-
plex Zeolite, IM-5
The approach of electron crystallography entails solving the
structure of many small crystals in three dimensions using
both the diffracted beams and the image formed in an elec-
tron microscope. The incoming beam is focused onto a small
part of the specimen and then a selected-area electron diffrac-
tion (SAED) pattern is recorded using the aperture at the
image plane. One for the great advantages of solving 3D struc-
tures by electron crystallography is that the beams that form
the diffraction patterns may be refocused to form an image
(the electron micrograph). This electron micrograph is, in es-
sence, a hologram constructed from the diffracted beams and
contains all the information about the relative phases of the
beams, that is, the micrograph is a result of both the recon-
structed amplitude and relative phases of the diffracted beam.
The process is depicted in Figure 11.
Because the crystallography is carried out in the electron mi-
croscope, the 3D structural determination can be concerned
with minute regions of the crystal of differing chemical compo-
sition, a feature that is of growing importance in the study of
new solid catalysts of complicated stoichiometry. The method
operates by using suitable regions of the electron micrograph
rather than the electron diffraction pattern itself[5,33,34] (this is
known, rather inelegantly, as a selected-area Fourier diffracto-
gram, SAFD). The micrograph, in effect, becomes the ‘crystal’
from which the structure is solved. In practice, micrographs are
recorded along several suitable zone axes, and very thin sec-
tions (to avoid multiple scattering) are selected. This technique
is particularly useful in solving the structures of mesoporous
solids, typified by MCM-48,[34] in which, because their unit cell
dimensions are so large and the walls of the “vacancy lattice”
(composed of large channels and cages) are amorphous, the
structures are nearly impossible to be solved by X-ray crystal-
lography. Structure solutions algorithms developed for X-ray
crystallography (e.g., direct methods or charge-flipping) can be
used also with electron intensities but care must be taken to
avoid dynamical effects if conventional SAED patterns are
used; for zeolites, such effects tend to be weak.[35]
IM-5 (Si288mO5762m) is a crystalline siliceous zeolite catalyst,
one of the most complex (structurally) with 24 silicon atoms in
the asymmetric unit.[36] Its unit cell dimensions are: a=14.334,
Figure 10. HAADF STEM image of supported WOx/ZrO2 catalysts. All tung-
sten-containing species (mono-, poly-tungstate and clusters) coexist in this
sample. Here, the presence of WOx clusters (10–15 W atoms) seems to corre-
late with the higher activity. Image courtesy of C. J. Kiely.
Figure 11. Schematic of the electron crystallography method (after Anderson
et al.[33]). Reprinted from Ref. [33] with permission from The Royal Society of
Chemistry.
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
787
The Study of Solid Catalysts
b=56.92, c=20.327 , space group Cmcm. It is a so-called
high-silica zeolite, exhibiting strong Brønsted catalytic activity
in the cracking of hydrocarbons and also in the reduction of
NO.[37] Its synthesis was first reported in 1998,[38] but only re-
cently has its structure been determined.[36,39] It is an important
nanoporous catalyst because it governs the precise nature (i.e.,
shape and size) of the product molecules that may be formed
within it during the process of thermal cracking of hydrocar-
bons.
Recently, X-ray powder diffraction has been combined with
electron crystallography to determine the structures of several
complex zeolite catalysts such as TNU-9,[39] SSZ-74,[40] and ITQ-
37,[41,42] and the advantages of doing so have been empha-
sized by Sun et al.[38] Electron crystallography alone has been
used to determine the structure of a large range polycrystalline
compounds, especially nano- and micro-sized intermetallic
compounds and metal clusters.[44,45]
The structure of IM-5 was determined[36,39] by combining
SAED, 3D reconstruction of HRTEM images from different zone
axes and distance least squares (DLS) refinement.[46] The unit
cell parameters were determined from SAED; the space group
from extinctions in these patterns and from the projection
symmetries
of
HRTEM
images
such
as
those
shown
in
Figure 12 for the high-symmetry directions <100>.
Using the structure factor amplitudes and phases of 144 in-
dependent reflections obtained from the images shown in
Figure 12, a 3D electrostatic potential map was calculated by
inverse Fourier transformation (Figure 13). From this 3D poten-
tial map, all 24 unique Si positions could be determined.
Oxygen atoms were added between each SiSi pair and fur-
ther refined together with the Si positions by DLS refinement.
The final structure model (Figure 14) deviates on average
0.16  for Si and 0.31  for O atom from the structure refined
by X-ray powder diffractometry.
Precession Electron Diffraction and Its Poten-
tial in Solving the Structure of New Catalysts
The vast majority of crystal structures are determined by X-ray
diffraction. The interaction of an X-ray with the crystal charge
density is sufficiently strong to yield diffraction data with high
signal-to-noise but weak enough to be described as kinemati-
cal in nature. In this kinematical limit, the intensities of reflec-
tions are proportional to the square of the structure factor for
that reflection and this has huge advantages in solving crystal
structures. The interaction of an electron, with the crystal po-
tential is in general far stronger, intensities of reflections are
‘dynamical’ and are dominated by multiple scattering events.
For many years, electron microscopists have devised methods
Figure 12. HRTEM images along the three high-symmetry axes of the zeolite
IM-5. Inserts show their corresponding Fourier transforms, lattice-averaged
images and the images after imposing Cmcm symmetry (after Sun et al.[39]).
Reprinted from Ref. [39] with permission from Oldenbourg Publishing.
Figure 13. A 3D potential map of IM-5 reconstructed from 144 unique reflec-
tions using eMap (see Sun et al.[39]). a) An overview of the 3D potential map
(with the cyan color towards the wall and the blue color towards the pores)
along with the structure model derived from it; b) 2D projection of the 3D
potential map along the c-axis; and c) The Si framework viewed along the c-
axis in the final structural model (after Sun et al.[39]). Reprinted from Ref. [39]
with permission from Oldenbourg Publishing.
788
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
to minimize dynamical effects to allow electron diffraction to
be used for structure solution. These methods have included
using ultrathin or weakly scattering crystals, as discussed
above, using high voltage instruments, but in this case for
many materials beam damage can be a limiting factor, or
using weak reflections that are quasi-kinematical in nature,
such as high order Laue zone (HOLZ) reflections at major zone
axes.[47]
In 1994, Vincent and Midgley introduced a technique that
involved rocking the beam to give hollow cone illumination
onto the specimen and then de-rocking the beam back onto
the optic axis below the specimen (Figure 15).[48] This double-
rocking
idea
developed
from
a
similar
‘double-rocking’
method, introduced by Eades[49] and Crewe a few years previ-
ously,[50] and capitalized on the possibilities offered by hollow
cone illumination.[51]
The hollow cone rocking–derocking action has a net effect
equivalent to a (focused) stationary beam but with a crystal
precessing about the optic axis, as one would find in X-ray pre-
cession experiments;[52] this similarity led to the technique
being called ‘precession electron diffraction’. Importantly, the
precession effect means that the Ewald sphere is swept
through the Bragg condition and so the intensities recorded
are ‘integrated intensities’ which are less susceptible to dynam-
ical effects.[53] Moreover, although the diffraction pattern geom-
etry has the same appearance as a zone axis pattern, the
beam is tilted away from the zone axis by the precession
angle. This further reduces the dynamical perturbations to the
reflections. Figure 15 shows a diagram of the precession tech-
nique together with one of the original precessed patterns re-
corded from the [001] zone axis of Er2Ge2O7.
The circular patch of reflections in the zero-order Laue zone
(ZOLZ) has a radius equal to twice the precession angle, and
the width of the annulus of reflections in the HOLZ is equal to
the precession angle. There are four key advantages of the
precession technique:
1. The precession action leads to many more reflections being
visible in both the ZOLZ and HOLZ. The Ewald sphere is
rocked backwards and forwards (twice) through the reflec-
tion and many more reflections are excited compared to a
conventional pattern.
2. The diffracted discs are of uniform intensity and are not do-
minated by the complex contrast seen, for example, in con-
ventional CBED patterns. The precession action leads to in-
tensities integrated through the Bragg condition.
3. With the beam tilted away from the zone axis, the dynami-
cal interactions are minimized but the geometry of the
zone axis pattern is preserved.
4. A highly focused beam can be retained to enable diffrac-
tion data to be collected from small crystallites.
The use of precession electron diffraction for structure solu-
tion has been growing in recent years. There have been a
number of studies of complex oxide systems including miner-
als (e.g., beryl, andalusite, cordierite, uvarovite, kaermanite
and
mordenite),
other
mixed
metal
oxides
including
(Ga,In)2SnO4, Ba6Mn5O15, and La4Cu3MoO12, and studies of inter-
metallic systems such as Al-Fe and Al-Mg-Zn. In the catalysis
field, electron diffraction has been applied for many years to
zeolite and related structures, known to be difficult to solve
with conventional X-ray methods. Dorset, in particular, has pio-
neered the use of electron diffraction in the study of zeolites,
and recently used precession electron diffraction, to solve
many previously unknown or partially known structures.[54]
Figure 16 shows a precession pattern recorded from MCM68,
together with the structure solution found using the maximum
entropy algorithm MICE.[55]
McCusker and Baerlocher have also recently combined pre-
cession electron diffraction with powder X-ray diffraction and
high resolution imaging to solve zeolite structures ZSM-5 and
TNU-9.[56]
The probe size of a convergent beam in precession varies
approximately as the square of the precession angle and line-
arly with the spherical aberration coefficient of the probe-form-
Figure 14. Final structure model of IM-5 (in yellow) compared with the struc-
ture refined by X-ray powder diffractometry (in red). The average deviations
are 0.16  for Si atoms and are 0.31  for O (see Sun et al.[39]). Reprinted
from Ref. [39] with permission from Oldenbourg Publishing.
Figure 15. Precession electron diffraction method (left), and a precession dif-
fraction pattern recorded at the [001] axis of Er2Ge2O7 (right).[48]
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
789
The Study of Solid Catalysts
ing lens. In order to reduce the effects of multiple scattering,
and thus to record usable electron diffraction intensities, the
precession angle has to be relatively large (typically 2–38).
Thus, in most electron microscopes, this means the probe size
may be 10’s of nm in diameter on the specimen.
If ultra-small particles are to be studied, then the probe size
can be reduced by using aberration-corrected lenses. In princi-
ple, this can lead to a probe size of approximately 1 nm or less
(limited only by higher order aberrations), ideal for the study
of catalyst nanoparticles. In practice, the electronics of the
scan system will need upgrading to reach that theoretical mini-
mum. However, this is technically possible and so we have in
the very near future the exciting prospect of recording preces-
sion patterns from, and thus solving crystal structures of, nm-
sized catalyst crystals.
The Merits of Electron Tomography and Elec-
tron Holography
Many complex devices and materials are three-dimensional in
nature at many different length scales. A large fraction of cata-
lysts used are highly porous structures with complex 3D struc-
tural networks and particle distributions. These are often chal-
lenging structures to investigate by electron microscopy, and
electron tomography has proven to be a very powerful tool in
unraveling the 3D structure at the nanoscale. Electron tomog-
raphy[57] is a method by which a series of images (projections)
are acquired, normally about a single tilt axis, so that the 3D
structure is viewed from many directions. The ensemble of
images within the tilt series is then ‘back-projected’ into a 3D
space and the object is reconstructed. The reconstruction (or
tomogram) can then be visualized in many ways, including an
isosurface render to pick out a particular phase, a volume pro-
jection to visualize the 3D mass thickness of the object and by
taking slices, to reveal clearly internal structures, such as
second phases and pore distributions.
Early electron tomography experiments used a tilt series of
bright-field images but very quickly it became apparent that
STEM HAADF imaging was the image mode of choice for the
study of catalysts.[58] The great advantages of STEM HAADF
imaging are two-fold. Firstly, the STEM HAADF images are inco-
herent in nature, meaning that such images are far less prone
to contrast reversals with changes to thickness and defocus,
compared to bright field (BF) (coherent) imaging. Secondly, the
STEM HAADF images have high atomic contrast; in the limit
this varies as the square of the atomic number, approaching
Rutherford-type scattering. This is of course extremely useful in
seeing ultra-small metallic nanoparticles in light element sup-
ports, as is often needed in the study of heterogeneous cata-
lysts.
We show here three case studies highlighting the applica-
tion of STEM HAADF tomography to the study of heterogene-
ous catalysts. In the first case, see Figure 17, we show how the
reconstructed tomogram of Pd/Ru nanoparticles supported on
and within disordered mesoporous silica.[59] Here, the particles
are colored red and silica grey. A study of the underlying sup-
port showed that the pore surface was fractal in nature which
can have consequences for the selectivity of reactions under
certain conditions.[60] Furthermore, it was found that the distri-
bution of the bimetallic nanoparticles was not random and
that there was a very strong preference for the particles to
anchor themselves to surface features which had strong nega-
tive Gaussian curvature (in other words ‘saddle points’). Such
fine-scale 3D information is just not possible to achieve by any
other technique.
As a second example, the electron tomography of an or-
dered mesoporous silica, MCM48 is shown in Figure 18.[61] This
had been studied by more conventional electron microscopy,
forming lattice images (see previous sections) from which the
gyroid pore structure was determined. By recording STEM
HAADF images, the 3D reconstruction confirmed the gyroid
structure and the overall symmetry of the MCM48 structure.
Differences were seen although in the pore size determination.
3D real space crystallography of this kind also allows defects
to be seen, and a ‘twin’ boundary was discovered in MCM48,
with a common {112} twin plane.
Lastly, electron tomography is adept at visualizing the facet-
ing of nanocrystals. In Figure 19, we show a reconstruction of
heavy metal oxide catalysts based on (Ce/Tb/Zr)O2x with Au
nanoparticles decorating the surface. The ceria facets are pre-
Figure 16. a) [001] zone-axis precession diffraction pattern from MCM68 and
b) the resulting structure solved from the diffraction pattern. Reprinted from
Ref. [54] with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 17. a) Surface rendered tomogram of Ru–Pt nanoparticles (red) sup-
ported on and within a mesoporous silica support; b) A 1 nm thick slice
showing the internal porosity of the silica.[59] Reprinted from Ref. [59] with
permission from the American Chemical Society.
790
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
dominantly composed of {111} crystal faces but equally inter-
esting is the observation that the Au nanoparticles occupy
preferentially the ‘crevices’ formed by the facet structure.[62]
There are many electron imaging modes available for elec-
tron tomography. One with a great deal of potential is that of
volume-spectroscopy[63] or 4D spectral tomography in which
energy loss is combined with the three spatial dimensions.
One of the great benefits is that spectral information can be
extracted from subvolumes avoiding any projection artifacts.
Nowadays, many catalysts are designed such that they have
a ferromagnetic core (of Fe or Co) covered with a coating of
either carbon or silica, to which are attached the active centers
that impart the activity to the entire composite. The merit in
doing this devolved upon the ease of separation (magnetically)
of the catalyst itself (for further use) from the mixture of prod-
ucts and unconverted reactant species. A striking example of
the implementation of this concept is contained in the work of
Lu et al.[64] (Figure 20) who nanoengineered a magnetically
separable hydrogenation catalyst. These workers used carbon
(as a coating for the ferromagnetic cobalt particles) and also as
a support for metallic palladium, which constitutes the hydro-
genating center. Electron holography assists in characterizing
such catalysts.
Some Insights into Auto-Exhaust Catalysts
The work of Calvino et al.[65] on the oxygen storage capacity of
CeO2-based solids that are used in a three-way, auto-exhaust
catalyst has benefited enormously from investigations involv-
ing HREM (STEM) and electron tomography. Typically, a compo-
sition such as Ce0.68Zr0.32O2 releases its oxygen (from within the
bulk) when heated in H2 up to 9008C, and it does so initially at
temperatures in the vicinity of 700 K. However, when some
0.3% of Rh is distributed over the surface of this (Ce–Zr)O2
support, it is seen that on heating again, the oxygen from the
bulk is released at approximately 450 K. A spillover process
occurs on the Rh and the dissociated hydrogen combine with
the oxygen from the bulk, thereby creating vacancies.
HREM has proven invaluable in the hands of Calvino and
collaborators in elucidating the nature of this kind of phenom-
enon. In particular, an in-depth structural and analytical investi-
gation of two 25 wt% Ce0.8Pr0.2O2 (supported on d-Al2O3) cata-
lysts (with 3.5 wt% SiO2 and 4 wt% La2O3) was performed by
Lopez-Haro et al.[66] in which they aimed at clarifying the origin
of the difference in evolution of their oxygen storage capacity
with temperature. Using a combination of TEM and STEM, the
details of the structural and compositional changes of the two
Figure 18. a) An example of a tomographic voxel projection of the MCM-48
lattice shown at a <113> zone axis. The experimental image and corre-
sponding power spectrum (left); the theoretical image and its spectrum
(right), based on a gyroid structure. b) A reconstructed slice through a MCM-
48 reconstruction, perpendicular to the <110> zone axis. A Bragg-filtered
inset enhances the periodic detail. The pairs of spots in the power spectrum
correspond to the {332} and {224} reflections.[61] Reprinted from Ref. [61]
with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 19. Surface-rendered reconstruction of a Au/Ce0.50Tb0.12Zr0.38O2x cata-
lyst showing the distribution of gold nanoparticles (light) on the surface of
the oxide (dark). Dashed lines indicate the vertices of {111} facets.[62] Reprint-
ed from Ref. [62].
Figure 20. BF TEM images of Co particles on ordered mesoporous carbon:
a) low magnification; b) high magnification. Arrows indicate hollow carbon
shells following leaching.[64] Reprinted from Ref. [64].
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
791
The Study of Solid Catalysts
catalysts with reduction temperature established the role of
SiO2 as a stabilizer of the oxygen handling properties of the
Ce–Pr mixed oxide phase under high temperature reducing en-
vironments. Pr does not fully mix with Ce during the synthesis
of both catalysts and the SiO2 doping provides a barrier
against lanthanide element incorporation into the alumina
support. This hinders the formation of LnAlO3 (Ln=Ce, Pr) per-
ovskite thought responsible for the loss of oxygen storage ca-
pacity during hydrogen treatments at temperatures above
8008C.
The Value of Electron Energy-Loss Spectro-
scopy (EELS)
By adding an electron spectrometer to either a STEM or a TEM
instrument, a great deal of extra structural information about
the specimen may be extracted. For example, the wealth of in-
formation schematized in Figure 21 is retrievable. The range of
energies over which reasonable signals may be obtained ex-
tends to about 2000 eV below the incident energy. Proceeding
from the zero-loss peak, the first feature of interest is the plas-
mon peak, which usually occurs between about 5 and 25 eV.
Since plasmons are collective excitations of the electron gas,
their energies are governed by the density of the electron in
the sample, and the extent to which the electrons are free or
bound. p- or s-electrons have different energies; and one
often readily distinguishes between a surface and a bulk plas-
mon. Plasmon resonance can be triggered either by light irra-
diation or by electromagnetic fields associated with impinging
electrons.
At higher energy loss, the electron intensity is much weaker
and the features are analogous to the absorption edges found
in X-ray absorption spectra, and they arise from scattering of
the transmitted electrons by inner-shell (core) electrons of
each element present in the specimen.
The great merit of EELS and electron-loss imaging in STEM
and energy-filtered TEM (EFTEM) is the information pertaining
to composition and structure they yield: valence states, bond
distances, and composition may all, under ideal conditions, be
retrieved from the kind of spectra schematized in Figure 21.
The number of d electrons in a transition metal or platinum
group metal ion, coordination fingerprints and bond-mapping
as well as bond-distances may all, under favorable circumstan-
ces, be deduced from EELS spectra (see Refs. [5] and Ref. [10]).
Owing to the very recent availability of high-intensity, sharp-
ly focused (ca. 1  diameter) electron beams operating within
AC-STEM instruments, truly atomic-scale chemical imaging is
now possible, as recently demonstrated by Muller et al.[67] who
examined perovskite layers (Figure 22).
Such a development augurs well for the future of electron
microscope studies of a wide variety of oxide catalysts, espe-
cially those based on novel perovskites now used increasingly
in photocatalysis.[68] Because of the availability of AC-STEM in-
struments an increase of some 100-fold in the signal becomes
possible compared with what was achievable prior to their
advent. New possibilities in EELS studies are discussed in the
following sections.
4D Electron Microscopy
Four-dimensional (4D) ultrafast (stroboscopic) electron micros-
copy became feasible some five
years ago, thanks to the efforts
of
Zewail
and
co-workers.[69]
Similar efforts have been made
to develop ultrafast single-shot
experiments at the Lawrence
Livermore labs, known as dy-
namic TEM, or DTEM.[70] It is an
approach that adds the dimen-
sions of time to the three spa-
tial ones that are retrievable by
HREM; and it has opened up
new vistas and applications by
using timed, single-electron (or
just a few electron) packets. The
full details of the Zewail ap-
proach[71]
and
the
variety
of
recent applications[10] have been
described elsewhere. Real-space
imaging, Fourier-space (diffrac-
tion
pattern)
recording
and
EELS studies may all be carried
out at femtosecond (fs) scale
resolution. All this is achieved
through
coherent
electron
packets,
which
are
liberated
Figure 21. Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) and imaging provides a wealth of information including
chemical composition, valence state (or oxidation number obtained from ELNES), interatomic distances (obtained
from EXELFS), information pertaining to s and p electrons (obtained from plasmon peaks) and momentum densi-
ty of bonding electrons (obtained from Compton scattering).[10]
792
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
from a photocathode with femtosecond laser pulses, accelerat-
ed at 120 or 200 keV, and contain as little as one electron per
pulse (Figure 24).
Reference [10] is a monograph that deals in depth with the
principles and applications (up to late 2009) of 4D EM; and the
reader is referred to that text to see, amongst others, how
EELS spectra may be collected at subpicosecond time scales.[72]
That text also shows how convergent beam (CB) recording and
electron energy-gain measurements are carried out.[73]
Many remarkable results have already been attained by Ze-
wail’s 4D microscopy approach. However, the concerted study
of catalysts has not yet begun. The fs-resolved EELS data re-
cently recorded by Carbone et al.[74,75] using Zewail’s ultrafast
electron microscope operating in the single-electron per pulse
mode uses a train of 220 fs infrared laser pulses (l=1038 nm),
which is split into two paths (Figure 23). One path is frequen-
cy-doubled and used to excite the specimen on the micro-
scope grid, and the other is frequency-tripled into the UV and
directed to the photoemissive cathode to generate the elec-
tron packets. Full details of the way the EELS data and parallel
information are recorded are given in Refs. [74] and Ref. [75].
Carbone et al.,[74,75] on examining graphite, observed non-
equilibrium compression and subsequent expansion of the
graphene layers, and is correlated with the direction of change
from sp2 to sp3 (i.e., to 3D-diamond-like structure) electronic
hybridization. With the reality of achieving even shorter optical
pulse,[76] the Zewail group provided the methodology to gen-
erate attosecond (1018 s) electron pulses for imaging and for
EELS, that is, on the time-scale at which electrons move. With
such spatial and temporal resolutions, one has reached the ul-
timate scale of discrimination in bond lengths and angles and
also in the movement of bonding electrons. In principle, there-
fore, unprecedented degrees of insight into the processes that
occur at the surface of catalysts after the transfer of electrons
to or from the reactant species and the solid catalyst become
possible.
Time-resolved in situ studies of catalysts by electron micros-
copy
In addition to the picometer (spatial resolution) coupled with
femtosecond (time resolution) that is an inherent feature of
Zewail’s 4D electron microscopy, which has yet to be applied
to a dynamic study of solid catalysts, there have been many
successes in probing catalytic action at more modest time
scales but at even higher spatial resolutions than have been
achieved with 4D EM. Substantial progress has been made by
Gai, Helveg, Henry, Allard, Yacaman, Creemer, and others in de-
signing TEM systems that permit HREM images to be recorded
of solid catalysts undergoing dynamic changes under modest
(reduced) gas pressures.
Gai[77] has perfected her in situ E-TEM approach in such a
manner as to achieve atomic resolution in the imaging of
nanoparticles (specifically Pt on TiO2) participating in catalytic
turnover. The highest degree of time resolution so far attained
by Gai and co-workers falls in the range of milliseconds. How-
ever, her instrument can routinely be employed to cope with
gas pressures of up to 50000 Pa of H2. Figure 24 shows a selec-
tive oxidation catalyst (known as CoAlPO-36[78]), which remains
Figure 22. Spectroscopic imaging of a La0.7Sr0.3MnO3/SrTiO3 multiplayer,
showing the different chemical sublattices in a spectrum, image extracted
from 650 eV, wide electron energy loss spectra: A) La M edge, B) Ti L edge,
C) Mn L edge, D) RGB false color composite image. White circles indicate the
position of the La columns. Field of view is 3.1 nm.[67] Reprinted from
Ref. [67] with permission from AAAS.
Figure 23. Schematic diagram of the ultrafast electron microscope (UEM).[68]
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
793
The Study of Solid Catalysts
structurally stable up to about 4008C at this relatively high-
pressure (50000 Pa) of H2.
One especially important aspect of heterogeneous catalysts,
concerned with nanoparticle shape dynamics, is of considera-
ble current interest. The size, shapes, and detailed surface
structure of supported metal nanoparticles (such as Cu/ZrO in
the synthesis of methanol from CO/CO2/H2 mixtures) play a
key role in their catalytic performance. Although nanoparticles
with predefined shapes can be readily synthesized, there is no
guarantee that such materials remain stable when exposed to
reaction conditions. In this regard, the work of Hansen et al.,
shown in Figure 25, is of particular relevance.[79]
Currently, Gai and Boyes[80] are engaged in adapting a JEOL
AC-STEM/TEM instrument to cope with environmental electron
microscopy in the in situ sense outlined above.
A significant advance in environmental (in situ) TEM has
been registered recently in a joint Dutch–Danish collaboration
reported by Creemer et al.[81] The strategy used by these work-
ers (in order to limit the number of gas atoms in the specimen
stage of the microscope) was to build a novel nanoreactor that
is functionalized with micrometer-sized gas-flow channels,
electron-transparent windows (made of amorphous SiNx) and a
special heating device (Figure 26).
This micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) approach ena-
bles the integration of a heater and a thermal sensor for varia-
ble-temperature experiments at a subsecond time scale. A
comparable advance, also using MEMS technology, has been
made by Allard and Yacaman et al.[82]
Future Prospects
There are many growth points in electron microscopy that will
lead to further advances in the elucidation of the nature and
properties of novel catalysts. On the purely instrumental side,
the so-called SMART project centered in Berlin is concerned,
among others, with producing a spectro-microscope with later-
al resolution of 2 nm with an energy resolution of 100 meV;
both spherical and chromatic aberration is corrected, it is
energy filtered and combines low energy electron microscopy
(LEEM) and photoemission electron microscopy (PEEM), using
an X-ray synchrotron as the source of radiation. Another signif-
icant development in this area is that pioneered by Asakura
Figure 24. a) HREM image, computed images and corresponding diffraction
pattern (insets) from CoAlPO-36; b) the atomic arrangement showing the or-
dered channels.[4]
Figure 25. A, C, E) High resolution ETEM images of a Cu/ZnO catalyst in vari-
ous gas environments; B, D, F) the corresponding Wulff constructions of the
Cu nanocrystals.[79] Reprinted from Ref. [79] with permission from AAAS.
Figure 26. Illustration of a nanoreactor device. a) Schematic cross-section of
the nanoreactor; b) the TEM holder with the integrated nano-reactor and
the four probe contacts; c) close-up of the nanoreactor membrane showing
the Pt spiral heater; d) low-magnification TEM image of a pair of superim-
posed 10 nm thick windows.[81] Reprinted from Ref. [81] with permission
from Elsevier.
794
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
and his colleagues[83] involving an aberration-corrected multi-
pole Wien filter for energy-filtered X-ray PEEM.
PEEM, using UV light as a source, proved immensely valua-
ble in the hands of Ertl and collaborators[84] in investigating
the dynamics of surface reactions on model catalysts, in which
the various ‘chaotic’ and well-behaved features of reactants at
surfaces could be followed from the local changes of work
function during reactions
Ultralow-energy excitations and prospects for
spatially-resolved spectroscopy
With the availability of monochromated electron sources, there
is increasing interest in using energy loss spectroscopy to
study ultralow-energy excitations. Howie first discussed the
possibility of photon-assisted EELS to investigate excitations
generated by a tuned photon beam or pulse train.[85] Energy
gain spectroscopy is then possible, discussed further theoreti-
cally by Garcia de Abajo and Kociak[86] and realized experimen-
tally by Zewail’s group.[73]
Au and Ag nanoparticles exhibit a fascinating array of low
energy modes that can be probed with monochromated EELS.
The low energy of the excitations however means that the
signal collected is delocalized, possibly over several tens of
nanometers. One way to improve the localization of such a
signal is to acquire only those electrons that have scattered to
relatively high angles. Such energy-filtered low-loss STEM (EF-
STEM) HAADF imaging is possible in some instruments and
one of the first examples of this is shown in Figure 27 from
the Stuttgart group[87] using their SESAM instrument.
The need to prepare monodispersed nanocrys-
tals and nanoclusters of catalysts
As we have indicated elsewhere,[88] when bimetallic or trimetal-
lic nanoclusters need to be prepared for catalytic testing, a reli-
able procedure is to use a precursor organometallic molecule
(or ion) in which the two (or three) metals are an integral part
of the structure of that precursor. The organo component of
the precursor molecule is readily removed (by gentle thermoly-
sis or oxidation at low temperature, for example) so as to yield
the desired, monodisperse catalyst. This is the method we
have
used
for
systems
such
as
Ru10Pt2C2,
Ru5PtC,
and
Pd6Ru6.[88,89] The same strategy was used by Turner et al.[90] in
their study of nanocluster-nanoparticle gold, whereby they
took a Au55 compound as a precursor.
The whole question of catalytic activity and cluster size in
gold catalysis is still a deeply enigmatic issue. Thus the recent
work of Tsukuda and co-workers[91] on the dependence of cata-
lytic activity as a function of size (in the range 1.0 to 9.5 nm),
which straddles the cluster–particle divide, for some of the re-
actions shown in Scheme 2 is given in Figure 28; we see that
the rate constants fall dramatically with increasing size of the
Au cluster nanoparticle. In the Au preparations of Tsukuda and
co-workers, such as that of many other workers in this field
(i.e., Ref. [92]), the Au clusters are partially covered with weakly
bound poly(N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidine) (PVP), which still allow suffi-
Figure 27. a) EF-STEM images of a Ag nanoparticle acquired at 1 eV with col-
lection angles less than 6 mrad as shown in (b). c) EF-STEM images of the
Ag nanoparticle acquired at 1 eV with collection angles between 12 and 24
mrad, as shown in (d).[87] Reprinted from Ref. [87] with permission from
Elsevier.
Scheme 2. Aerobic oxidation catalyzed by Au/PVP.[91] Reprinted from
Ref. [91] with permission from the American Chemical Society.
Figure 28. Dependence of catalytic activity on the size of Au/PVP for the oxi-
dation of p-HBA.[91] Reprinted from Ref. [91] with permission from the Ameri-
can Chemical Society.
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
795
The Study of Solid Catalysts
cient access of reactants to bare regions of the Au surface. Tsu-
kuda very recently studied a series of Au preparations in which
‘magic numbers’ of atoms were stabilized by PVP, and studied
them using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass
spectrometry (MALDI-MS).[93] He concluded that the reactivity
of magic numbers smaller than 70 atoms are broadly in line
with those of free clusters (in the gas phase).
An altogether different approach to the preparation of
nanosized metals has recently been described by Zheng and
co-workers.[94] These workers employed an in situ TEM ap-
proach, in which the growth trajectories of Pt nanoparticle col-
loids (stabilized by a surfactant) were investigated, using a
liquid cell that operates inside a TEM;[95,96] these workers
showed that nanocrystals of Pt can grow either by monomer
attachment from solution or by particle coalescence. Through
the combination of these two processes, an initially broad size
distribution can spontaneously narrow into a nearly monodis-
perse distribution (Figure 29).
With these two distinct modes of preparation, the role of ad-
vanced HREM studies will take further significance in pinning
down precisely the roles of the enhanced catalytic perfor-
mance of nanocluster metallic or bimetallic entities.
Epilogue
There are many other growth points in electron microscopy
that could well have an impact on the study of solid catalysts.
One of these is low voltage STEM, such as proposed in the
SALVE project,[97] sometimes entitled ‘Gentle STEM’, a term as-
sociated with the recent work of Krivanek et al.[98] This tech-
nique refers to the practice of recording annular dark field
(ADF) images and EELS at low primary energies of the electron
beam, a feature made possible by the aberration correction of
the STEM instruments. It is now possible to reach probe sizes
close to 1  at 60 keV, that is, at an operating energy that
avoids direct knock-on damage in materials consisting of light
elements such as boron, carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. Kriva-
nek et al. have shown that their approach allows chemical
identification of individual atoms, both heavy and light, and
the recording of atomic motion of individual heavy atoms
(Figure 30).
Acknowledgements
We are grateful for stimulating discussions with Professors K.
Akasura, D. J. Buttrey, J. J. Calvino, P. L. Gai, C. J. Kiely, O. L. Kriva-
nek, R. F. Schloegl, D. S. Su, T. Tsukuda and W. Ueda. The authors
acknowledge Tony Chang for his great help in preparing this
manuscript.
Keywords: crystallography
·
electron
energy-loss
spectroscopy · electron microscopy · electron tomography ·
heterogeneous catalysis
[1] P. L. Gai, E. D. Boyes, S. Helveg, P. L. Hansen, S. Giorgio, C. R. Henry, MRS
Bull. 2007, 32, 1044.
[2] S. Giorgio, S. Sao Joao, S. Nitsche, D. Chaudanson, G. Sitja, C. R. Henry,
Ultramicroscopy 2006, 106, 503.
[3] P. L. Hansen, S. Helveg, A. K. Datye, Adv. Catal. 2006, 50, 77.
[4] J. M. Thomas, P. L. Gai, Adv. Catal. 2006, 48, 174.
[5] J. M. Thomas, P. A. Midgley, Chem. Commun. 2004, 1253.
[6] O. Terasaki, J. M. Thomas, Top. Catal. 2002, 21, 155.
[7] D. Cockayne, A. I. Kirkland, P. D. Nellist, A. Bleloch, Philos. Trans. R. Soc.,
A 2009, 367, 3631.
[8] A. Howie, remarks made at the 1st International Symposium on Ad-
vanced Electron Microscopy for Catalysis and Energy Storage Materials,
Berlin, Fritz-Haber-Institure, January, 2010.
Figure 29. TEM images of Pt nanocrystals synthesized in a liquid cell.
a) Bright-field TEM image of Pt nanocrystals with a histogram of particle size
distribution, from 150 particles. b) High-resolution TEM image of a Pt nano-
crystal, c) X-ray spectra from Pt nanocrystals (top) and background (bottom)
(after Zheng et al.[94]). Reprinted from Ref. [94] with permission from AAAS.
Figure 30. ADF images of single and multiple layer graphene. a) As record-
ed; b) FFT of the image; c) profile of a smoothing plus defogging filter;
d) the adjusted FFT; e) the filtered image. The insert in (e) shows line profile
A-A’ (after Krivanek et al.[98]). Reprinted from Ref. [98] with permission from
Elsevier.
796
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
[9] T. LaGrange, G. H. Campbell, B. W. Reed, M. Taheri, J. B. Pesavento, J. S.
Kim, N. D. Browning, Ultramicroscopy 2008, 108, 1441.
[10] A. H. Zewail, J. M. Thomas, 4D Electron Microscopy: Imaging in Space
and Time, Imperial College Press, London, 2010; see also A. H. Zewail,
Philos. Trans. R. Soc. London Ser. A 2010, 368, 1191.
[11] S. Bernal, F. J. Botana, J. J. Calvino, C. Lopez-Cartes, J. A. Perez-Omil, J. M.
Rodriguez-Izquierdo, Ultramicroscopy 1998, 72, 135.
[12] J. M. Thomas, R. Raja, P. L. Gai, H. Gronbeck, J. C. Hernandez-Garrido,
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 402–406.
[13] C. J. Kiely, 2009, unpublished results.
[14] J. Kwak, J. Z. Hu, D. Mei, C. W. Yi, D. H. Kim, C. H. F. Peden, L. F. Allard, J.
Szanyi, Science 2009, 325, 1670.
[15] A. B. Hungria, R. Raja, R. D. Adams, B. Captain, J. M. Thomas, P. A Midg-
ley, V. Golvenko, B. F. G. Johnson, Angew. Chem. 2006, 118, 4900; Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 4782.
[16] D. Ozkaya, W. Z. Zhou, J. M. Thomas, P. Midgley, V. J. Keast, S. Hermans,
Catal. Lett. 1999, 60, 113.
[17] M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos, M. Sakbodin, Z. Wang, Science 2006, 312,
1508.
[18] D. Su, T. Jacob, T. W. Hansen, D. Wang, R. Schlçgl, B. Freitag, S. Kujawa,
Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 5083; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 5005.
[19] A. Herzing, C. J. Kiely, A. F. Carley, P. Landon, G. J. Hutchings, Science
2008, 321, 1331.
[20] Y. Liu, C-L. Jia, J. Yamasaki, O. Terasaki, F. Schuth, Poster P3 at
1st International Symposium on Advanced Electron Microscopy for Cat-
alysis and Energy Storage Materials, Berlin, Fritz-Haber-Institure, January,
2010.
[21] T. M. Bernhandt, U. Heiz, U. Landman, Nanocatalysis (Ed.: U. Heiz, U.
Landman), Springer, Berlin, 2007, p. 1.
[22] Z. Y. Li, N. P. Young, M. Di Vece, S. Palomba, R. E. Palmer, A. L. Bleloch,
B. C. Curley, R. L. Johnsen, J. Jiang, J. Yuan, Nature 2008, 451, 46.
[23] R. K. Grasselli, D. J. Buttrey, Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 7.
[24] P. De Santo, Jr., D. J. Buttrey, R. K. Grasselli, C. G. Lugmair, A. F. Valpe, Jr.,
B. H. Toby, T. Vogt, Z. Kristallogr. 2004, 219, 152.
[25] W. D. Pyrz, D. A. Blom, T. Vogt, D. J. Buttrey, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120,
2830–2833; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 2788–2791.
[26] J. M. Thomas, ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1363.
[27] M. Aouine, J. L. Dubois, J. M. M. Millet, Chem. Commun. 2001, 1180.
[28] N. R. Shiju, V. V. Guliants, ChemPhysChem 2007, 8, 1615.
[29] J. M. Lpez Nieto, P. Botella, B. Solsona, J. M. Oliver, Catal. Today 2003,
81, 87.
[30] D. J. Buttrey, remarks made at the symposium ’’1st International Sympo-
sium on Advanced Electron Microscopy for Catalysis and Energy Stor-
age Materials”, Berlin, Fritz-Haber Institute, January 2010; W. D. Pyrz,
D. A. Blom, M. Sadakane, K. Kodato, W. Ueda, T. Vogt, D. J. Buttrey,
Chem. Mater. 2010, 22, 2033.
[31] W. Zhou, E. I. Ross-Medgaanden, W. V. Knowles, M. S. Wong, I. E. Wacks,
C. J. Kiely, Nat. Chem. 2009, 1, 722.
[32] B. M. Weckhuysen, Nat. Chem. 2009, 1, 690.
[33] M. W. Anderson, T. Ohsana, Y. Sakamoto, Z. Liu, A. Carlsson, O. Terasaki,
Chem. Commun. 2004, 907; J. M. Thomas, O. Terasaki, P. L. Gai, W. Zhou,
J. M. Gonzalez-Calbet, Acc. Chem. Res. 2001, 34, 583.
[34] M. Kaneda, T. Tsubahiyama, A. Carlsson, Y. Sakamoto, T. Ohsuna, O. Tera-
saki, S. H. Joo, R. Ryoo, J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 1256.
[35] P. Wagner, O. Terasaki, S. Ritsch, J. G. Nery, S. I. Zones, M. E. Davis, K.
Hiraga, J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 8245; T. Ohsuna, Z. Liu, O. Terasaki,
K. Hiraga, M. Camblor, J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 5673.
[36] C. Baerlocher, F. Gramm, I. Massuger, L. B. McCusker, Z. B. He, S. Hovmol-
ler, X-D. Zou, Science 2007, 315, 1113.
[37] J. M. Serra, E. Guillon, L. Roulean, J. Catal. 2004, 227, 459, and references
therein.
[38] E. Benazzi, J. L. Guth, L. Rouleau, PCT Gazette WO 98/17581, 1988.
[39] J. Sun, H. Zhanbing, S. Hovmoller, X. Zou, F. Gramm, G. Baerlocher, L. B.
McCusker, Z. Kristallogr. 2010, 225, 77.
[40] F. Gramm. C. Baerlocher, L. B. McCusker, S. J. Warrender, P. A. Wright, B.
Han, S. B. Hong, Z. Liu, T. Ohsuna, O. Terasaki, Nature 2006, 444, 79.
[41] C. Baerlocher, D. Xie, L. B. McCusker, S.-J. Hwang, I. Y. Chan, K. Ong,
A. W. Burton, S. I. Zones, Nat. Mater. 2008, 7, 631–635.
[42] J. L. Sun, C. Bonneau, A. Canteri, A. Corma, M. J. Diaz-Cabanas, M. Moli-
nar, D. L. Zhang, M. R. Li, X. D. Zou, Nature 2009, 458, 1154.
[43] K. D. M. Harris, J. M. Thomas, ChemCatChem 2009, 1, 223.
[44] T. E. Weirich, R. Ramlau, A. Simon, S. Hovmçller, X. D. Zou, Nature 1996,
382, 144.
[45] H. W. Zandbergen, S. J. Andersen, J. Jansen, Science 1997, 277, 1221.
[46] C. Baerlocher, A. Hepp, W. M. Meier, DLS refinement program, ETH
Zurich, Switzerland, 1976.
[47] R. Vincent, D. M. Bird, J. W. Steeds, Philos. Mag. A 1984, 50, 745; ibid.
765.
[48] R. Vincent, P. A. Midgley, Ultramicroscopy 1994, 53, 271.
[49] J. A. Eades, Ultramicroscopy 1980, 5, 71.
[50] A. V. Crewe, J. Wall, J. Mol. Biol. 1970, 48, 375.
[51] W. Krakow, L. A. Howland, Ultramicroscopy 1976, 2, 53.
[52] M. J. Buerger, The precession method, Wiley, NY, 1964.
[53] M. Blackman, Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. A 1939, 173, 68.
[54] D. L. Dorset, C. L. Gilmore, J. L. Jorda, S. Nicolopoulos, Ultramicroscopy
2007, 107, 462.
[55] C. J. Gilmore, G. Bricogne, C. Bannister, Acta Crystallogr. Sect. A 1990, 46,
297.
[56] D. Xie, C. Baerlocher, L. B. McCusker, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2008, 41, 1115.
[57] P. A. Midgley, E. P. W. Ward, A. B. Hungra, J. M. Thomas, Chem. Soc. Rev.
2007, 36, 1477; P. A. Midgley, M. Weyland, J. M. Thomas, B. F. G. John-
son, Chem. Commun. 2001, 907.
[58] J. M. Thomas, P. A. Midgley, T. J. V. Yates, J. S. Barnard, R. Raja, I. Arslan,
M. Weyland, Angew. Chem. 2004, 116, 6913; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2004,
43, 6745.
[59] E. P. W. Ward, T. J. V. Yates, J. J. Fernandez, D. E. W. Vaughan, P. A. Midg-
ley, J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 11501.
[60] S. Gheorghiu, M.-O. Coppens, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2004, 101,
15852.
[61] T. J. V. Yates, J. M. Thomas, J. J. Fernandez, O. Terasaki, R. Ryoo, P. A.
Midgley, Chem. Phys. Lett. 2006, 418, 540.
[62] J. C. Gonzlez, J. C. Hernndez, M. Lpez-Haro, E. del Rio, J. J. Delgado,
A. B. Hungra, S. Trasobares, S. Bernal, P. A. Midgley, J. J. Calvino, Angew.
Chem. 2009, 121, 5417; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 5313.
[63] A. H. Lu, W. Schmidt, N. Matoussevitch, H. Bonnemann, B. Spliethoff, B.
Tesche, E. Bile, W. Kiefer, F. Sch	th, Angew. Chem. 2004, 116, 4403;
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2004, 43, 4303.
[64] M. P. Yeste, J. C. Hernandez, S. Bernal, G. Blanco, J. J. Calvino, J. A. Perez-
Omil, J. M. Pintado, Catal. Today 2009, 141, 409; J. C. Hernandez, A. B.
Hungria, J. A. Perez-Omil, S. Trasobares, S. Bernal, P. A. Midgley, A. Alavi,
J. J. Calvino, J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 9001.
[65] M. Lpez-Haro, K. Aboussaid, J. C. Gonzalez, J. C. Hernndez, J. M. Pinta-
do, G. Blanco, J. J. Calvino, P. A. Midgley, P. Bayle-Guillemaud, S. Traso-
bares, Chem. Mater. 2009, 21, 1035.
[66] M. H. Gass, K. K. Koziol, A. H. Windle, P. A. Midgley, Nano Lett. 2006, 6,
376.
[67] D. A. Muller, L. Fitting-Kourkoutis, M. Murfitt, J. H. Song, H. Y. Hwang, J.
Silcox, N. Dellby, O. L. Krivanek, Science 2008, 319, 1073.
[68] K. Maeda, M. Domen, J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 7851.
[69] V. A. Lobastov, R. Srinivasanand, A. H. Zewail, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
2005, 102, 7069.
[70] T. LaGrange, M. A. Armstrong, K. R. Boyden, C. G. Brown, N. D. Browning,
G. H. Campbell, J. D. Colvin, W. J. DeHope, A. M. Frank, D. J. Gibson, F. V.
Hartemann, J. S. Kim, W. E. King, B. J. Pyke, B. W. Reed, M. D. Shirk, R. M.
Shuttlesworth, B. C. Stuart, B. R. Torralva, Appl. Phys. Lett. 2006, 89,
044105.
[71] J. M. Thomas, Angew. Chem. 2005, 117, 5699; Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2005, 44, 5563.
[72] P. Baum, A. Zewail, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007, 104, 18409.
[73] A. Yurtsever, A. Zewail, Science 2009, 326, 708; see also B. Barwick, D. J.
Flanagan, A. H. Zewail, Nature 2009, 462, 902.
[74] F. Carbone, B. Barwick, O. H. Kwon, H. S. Park, J. Spencer Baskin, A. H.
Zewail, Chem. Phys. Lett. 2009, 468, 107.
[75] F. Carbone, O.-H. Kwon, A. H. Zewail, Science 2009, 325, 181.
[76] F. Krausz, M. Ivanov, Rev. Mod. Phys. 2009, 81, 163.
[77] P. L. Gai in “Nanocharacterisation” Ed.: John Hutchison and Angus Kirk-
land, RSC Publishing 2007.
[78] G. Sankar, R. Raja, J. M. Thomas, Catal. Lett. Phys. 1998, 55, 15.
[79] P. L. Hansen, J. B. Wagner, S. Helveg, J. H. Rostnup-Nielsen, B. S. Clausen,
H. Topse, Science 2002, 295, 2053.
[80] P. L. Gai, E. D. Boyes, private communication.
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemcatchem.org
797
The Study of Solid Catalysts
[81] J. F. Creemer, S. Helveg, G. H. Hoveling, S. Ullmann, A. M. Molenbroek,
P. M. Sarro, H. W. Zandbergen, Ultramicroscopy 2008, 108, 993.
[82] L. F. Allard, W. C. Bigelow, M. J. Yacaman, D. P. Nackashi, J. Damiano, S. E.
Mick, Microsc. Res. Tech. 2009, 72, 208.
[83] H. Niimi, W. J. Chun, S. Suzuki, K. Asakura, M. Kato, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
2007, 78, 063710.
[84] Nobel Lecture: G. Ertl, Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 3578–3590; Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 3524–3535.
[85] A. Howie, Microsc. Microanal. 2004, 10, 685.
[86] F. J. Garca de Abajo, M. Kociak, New J. Phys. 2008, 10, 073035.
[87] L. Gu, W. Sigle, C. T. Koch, J. Nelayah, V. Srot, P. A. van Aken, Ultramicro-
scopy 2009, 109, 1164.
[88] J. M. Thomas, R. D. Adams, E. M. Bowell, B. Captain, H. Gronbeck, R.
Raja, Faraday Discuss. 2008, 138, 301.
[89] G. Schmid, D. Fenske, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. A 2010, 368, 1207, and refer-
ences therein.
[90] M. Turner, V. B. Golovko, O. P. H. Vaughan,
et al., Nature 2008, 454, 981.
[91] H. Tsunoyama, N. Ichikuni, H. Sakurai, T. Tsukuda, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2009, 131, 7086.
[92] R. Narayanan, M. A. El Sayed, J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 12663.
[93] H. Tsunoyama, T. Tsukuda, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 18216.
[94] H. Zheng, R. K. Smith, Y. Jun, C. Kisielowski, U. Dahmen, A. P. Alivisatos,
Science 2009, 324, 1309.
[95] P. L. Gai, Microscopy Microanal. 2002, 8, 21.
[96] M. J. Williamson, R. M. Tromp, P. M. Verecker, R. Hall, F. M. Ross, Nat.
Mater. 2003, 2, 532.
[97] U. Kaiser, A. Chuvilin, R. R. Schrçder, M. Haider, H. Rose, Proc. EMC 2008,
Vol. 1: Instrumentation and Methods, (Eds.: M. Luysberg, K. Tillmann, T.
Weirich), p. 35.
[98] O. L. Krivanek, N. Dellby, M. F. Murfitt, M. F. Chisholm, T. J. Pennycook, K.
Suenaga, V. Nicolosi, Ultramicroscopy, 2010, in press, DOI: 10.1016/j.ul-
tramic.2010.02.007.
Received: March 5, 2010
798
www.chemcatchem.org
 2010 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 783 – 798
J. M. Thomas and P. A. Midgley
