I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Chemical ReviewsVol 101/Issue 4Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLEApril 11, 2001 Catalysis Research of Relevance to Carbon Management: Progress, Challenges, and Opportunities Hironori ArakawaMichele ArestaJohn N. ArmorMark A. BarteauEric J. BeckmanAlexis T. BellJohn E. BercawCarol CreutzEckhard DinjusDavid A. DixonKazunari DomenDaniel L. DuBoisJuergen EckertEtsuko FujitaDorothy H. GibsonWilliam A. GoddardD. Wayne GoodmanJay KellerGregory J. KubasHarold H. KungJames E. LyonsLeo E. ManzerTobin J. MarksKeiji MorokumaKenneth M. NicholasRoy PerianaLawrence QueJens Rostrup-NielsonWolfgang M. H. SachtlerLanny D. SchmidtAyusman SenGabor A. SomorjaiPeter C. StairB. Ray StultsWilliam Tumas View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2001 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Catalysts Fossil Fuels Hydrocarbons Oxidation Selectivity
National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research.
Universit di Bari.
Air Products and Chemicals.
University of Delaware.
University of Pittsburgh.
Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley.
Department of Chemistry, California Institute of Technology.
Brookhaven National Laboratory. # Institut fr Technische Chemie.
Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
Tokyo Institute of Technology.
Δ
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. × Group LANSCE-12, Los Alamos National Laboratory. + Department of Chemistry, University of Louisville.
Materials and Molecular Simulation Center, California Institute of Technology.
Texas A&M University.
Sandia National Laboratories.
Group INC-4, Los Alamos National Laboratory. @ Chemical Engineering Department, Northwestern University.
The Catalyst Group. ·
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company.
* Corresponding author.
Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University.
Emory University.
University of Oklahoma.
University of Southern California.
Department of Chemistry, University of Minnesota.
Haldor Topsoe A/S.
Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of Minnesota.
Pennsylvania State University.
Department of Chemistry, University of California at Berkeley.
Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory.
Group INC-12, Los Alamos National Laboratory.
I. Introduction
There is increased recognition by the world's scientific, industrial, and political communities that the concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere, particularly CO2, are increasing. 1 For example, recent studies of Antarctic ice cores to depths of over 3600 m, spanning over 420000 years, indicate an 80 ppm increase in atmospheric CO2 in the past 200 years (with most of this increase occurring in the past 50 years) compared to the previous 80 ppm increase that required 10000 years. 2 The 160 nation Framework Convention for Climate Change (FCCC) in Kyoto focused world attention on possible links between CO2 and future climate change and active discussion of these issues continues. 3 In the United States, the PCAST report 4 Federal Energy Research and Development for the Challenges of the Twenty First Century focused attention on the growing worldwide demand for energy and the need to move away from current fossil fuel utilization. According to the U.S. DOE Energy Information Administration, 5 carbon emission from the transportation (air, ground, sea), industrial (heavy manufacturing, agriculture, construction, mining, chemicals, petroleum), buildings (internal heating, cooling, lighting), and electrical (power generation) sectors of the World economy amounted to ca. 1823 million metric tons (MMT) in 1990, with an estimated increase to 2466 MMT in 20082012 (Table 1).Table 1. Sources of World Carbon Emissions by Industrial Sectora 1990(MMTC) projected 20082012(MMTC) transportation 432 628 industrial 454 563 buildings 460 612 electrical 477 663 total 1823 2466 aMMTC = millions of metric tons of carbon.A recent analysis of the Kyoto Protocol by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)5 examined the impact of reducing annual U.S. CO2 emissions to 7% below 1990 levels on the above four sectors of the U.S. economy (transportation, industry, buildings, electric power). This 7% reduction represents a diminution of 551 MMT in annual CO2 emission below 1998 levels, as compared to estimated CO2 emissions from U.S. electric utilities alone of 663 MMT in 2008. The ASME report further estimates that improvements based on today's technologies can realistically reduce emissions by only 164 MMT (the most optimistic estimate) for the aforementioned four economic sectors in the 20082012 time frame. The ASME report also recognized that a vigorous R&D program is required to have any hope of achieving the additional 387 MMT of CO2 emissions reductions needed to meet the Kyoto protocols in just the United States alone. The magnitude of the problem is even greater viewed on a worldwide scale. The Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change 6 predicts that emissions of CO2 to the atmosphere will increase from 7400 MMT atmospheric carbon per year in 1997 to approximately 26000 MMT/year in 2100.Since 1997 there have been a number of published analyses dealing with carbon management issues. These include Technology Opportunities to Reduce U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 7 Scenarios of U.S. Carbon Reduction: Potential Impacts of Energy-Efficient and Low Carbon Technologies by 2010 and Beyond, 8 and State of the Science and Technology of Carbon Sequestration 9 and address various aspects of the growing international interest in, and concern regarding, carbon management with a focus on lowering the emissions of CO2. An analysis of the reports mentioned above leads to the following conclusions if the unpredictable climatic outcome of increased atmospheric CO2 concentrations is to be avoided: (1) the efficiency of our energy production and consumption processes must be significantly increased, (2) the carbon intensity of our economy must be significantly decreased, and (3) our ability to capture and sequester atmospheric CO2 must be significantly improved.Moreover, the above tasks must be accomplished while maintaining acceptable worldwide economic growth and quality of life, especially as less developed nations undergo energy-intensive industrialization. There is growing recognition that reducing concentrations of atmospheric CO2 will be a long-term task. Figure 1 illustrates a reasonable scenario for the projected CO2 concentration by the end of the next century and suggests areas over the long term where reductions of CO2 emission/sequestration may be possible. U.S. Secretary of Energy William Richardson has stated We (DOE) are starting with a bold vision of what might be possible by 2025a safe, predictable, and affordable way to prevent CO2 build up in the atmosphere and research could provide new options for the world to respond to climate-change concerns. 10 Figure 1 Timeline for projected world CO2 emission and the potential impact of various carbon management technologies in a typical scenario.In considering various approaches to addressing the global atmospheric CO2 problem, it becomes evident that enhanced capabilities in the area of chemical catalysis could play a significant role. This role could in principle range from more efficient production of low/non-carbon fuels (e.g., water-splitting, electrolysis), to more efficient fuel and electrolytic cells, more effective catalytic converters allowing leaner burning, more carbon-efficient vehicular engines, more efficient conversion of renewable resources (e.g., biomass) to fuels, and to more effective technologies for the sequestration, utilization, and/or permanent disposal of CO2. Taking the United States as an example, catalysis currently plays a major role in 90% of the current chemical manufacturing processes. These consume large quantities of energy and, in the United States, currently lead to emissions of over 10 MMT of CO2/year (a significant but relatively small component of Table 1). Improved catalytic processes could lead to more atom-efficient and energy-efficient use of fossil fuels such as hydrocarbons, to higher yield conversions of other carbon-containing feedstocks to desired products, and to new industrial uses for CO2. This becomes especially critical if CO2 emissions taxes are imposed in the future. Indeed, many of these issues are also raised in the recent Council on Chemical Research Vision 2020 Catalysis report, 11 and research programs focused on identifying promising carbon management approaches are active in a number of industrialized countries.The multifaceted and worldwide scientific and technological challenges posed by carbon management raise the need for a research-oriented and cross-disciplinary assessment of contributions that catalytic research has and could make in addressing these challenges. To this end, a four-day international workshop was organized under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy Council on Chemical Sciences and took place in Santa Fe, NM, from April 30 to May 4, 1999. The goal was to bring together internationally recognized experts from academic, industrial, and national laboratories working in fields related to catalytic research of current and potential impact on carbon management. The backgrounds of the participants were necessarily diverse, including organic, organometallic, theoretical, coordination, solid state, and bioinorganic chemistry, surface science and spectroscopy, homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis, catalytic reactor design and process chemical engineering, materials science, and condensed matter physics. The participants came from Europe, Japan, and the United States.The primary goals of the workshop were to review in depth the current state of knowledge, barriers to further scientific and technological progress, and promising scientific research in five important, interconnected areas relating to greenhouse gases and carbon management: (1) hydrogen generation and utilization; (2) light hydrocarbon activation and utilization; (3) carbon dioxide activation, utilization, and sequestration; (4) emerging physicochemical techniques and directions in catalysis research; (5) catalysis for more efficient transportation engines. The choice of topics was necessarily focused. However, these areas share many common themes and represent cases where a greater knowledge base could arguably lead to improved (in terms of rate, selectivity, environmental acceptability, and economy of operation) catalytic processes, thus having a significant positive impact. The product of the workshop was to be a scholarly review designed to reach a large segment of the international chemical research community and to be suitable for publication in a respected, peer-reviewed scientific journal.The workshop format consisted of lectures and panel discussions. The program began with presentations outlining the motivations for a global research effort concerning greenhouse gases and carbon management, as well as the important role that catalysis could potentially play in addressing these problems. This was followed by a presentation of the workshop goals, agenda, and writing assignments. Then, for each topical area, specialists reviewed research achievements in their field of expertise, illustrating with results from their own research and from that of others. Each speaker then presented his/her views of what the significant barriers to further progress are and an assessment of what the high pay-off basic research needs/opportunities are. These presentations were moderated by a discussion leader, and in most instances, vigorous exchanges of opinions ensued. For each area presentations were followed by a panel discussion in which important points were further explored and consensus regarding barriers, needs, and opportunities were refined. Each topical group then met and, led by a writing team, drafted input for the review. Input from the entire workshop group was then sought as the draft was polished. Further additions of figures, tables, and references then took place either during the workshop or electronically from home. In a number of cases, opinions of experts not able to be present at the workshop were also solicited. This review article presents the results of this effort.
II. Hydrogen Generation and Carbon Management
A. Introduction
Hydrogen is forecast to become a major source of energy in the future, thus offering a potentially nonpolluting, inexhaustible, efficient, and cost-attractive energy carrier. In the last 10 years, the defining issues with respect to H2 economics have changed dramatically. Before the 1990s, H2 was in plentiful supply with refineries being major H2 producers. However, refineries now have become large net consumers of H2 in an effort to reduce pollution and meet environmental regulations. The use of H2 as an energy carrier or fuel offers significant reduction in the emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), hydrocarbons (HC's), CO, and CO2, that is, assuming H2 can be produced by environmentally benign means (i.e., nonfossil fuels or reformed from fossil fuels with CO2 sequestration) and that air is not used as the source of O2. Molecular hydrogen is a clean burning fuel. It can be stored as a solid (in the form of hydrides), liquid, or gas; it can be distributed via pipelines and tanker trucks, and potentially it could be a long-term replacement for natural gas. 12 For this to occur, vast quantities of inexpensive H2 are required. However, significant quantities of hydrogen are typically highly localized at present, e.g., in refineries, although efforts are underway to improve the large-scale distribution of H2.Currently, steam reforming of hydrocarbons (SR), in particular steam methane reforming (SMR; CH4 + H2O  CO + 3H2), is the largest and generally the most economical way to produce H2. SMR consists of many different catalytic operations, including desulfurization, pre-reforming, reforming, high- and low-temperature watergas shift, methanation, and NOx removal. As long as natural gas- and petroleum-based hydrocarbons remain relatively inexpensive, SMR will continue to be the preferred method for hydrogen synthesis. Steam reforming is a mature technology. However, this area remains a fertile ground for technological improvements. One recent, popular approach in the literature on H2 production involves CO2 reforming of methane (CH4 + CO2  2CO + 2H2). Nevertheless, widespread implementation of this approach faces significant hurdles 13 and is really a means to produce more CO rather than H2. Future methods for producing H2 could emerge based on the selective oxidation of natural gas exclusively to CO and H2. Research continues on photolysis, electrolysis, and thermal processes for H2 production (vide infra). Alternative noncatalytic approaches include partial oxidation of heavy oil or coal 14 coupled with CO2 sequestration. With the availability of inexpensive electricity, electrolysis of water offers an alternative, commercial approach to hydrogen production. While there are secondary issues of storage, separation, and systems integration, catalysis will play an important role in photolytic and electrolytic H2 generation technologies.Excellent, in-depth background references for topics within this review include Twigg's book 15 on major processes using or producing H2, an encyclopedic review, 16 and Gunardson's recent book 17 on the production of industrial gases.
B. CO2 Management
Beyond 2010, the availability of hydrocarbons and/or environmental issues may eventually force adoption of alternative H2 technologies since steam reforming is an endothermic process, where CO2 is a coproduct and H2 purification is usually necessary. H2 production is linked to CO2 as a coproduct when fossil fuels are reformed. The wider use of H2 as a fuel could reduce worldwide CO2 emissions if we begin to shift to even greater use of CH4 as a SR feedstock. Use of nonfossil fuel sources for H2 production would avoid the problem of CO2 coproduction. Highly efficient end use devices (i.e., optimized conventional technologiesinternal combustion engines, turbines, etc.) and fuel cells offer a sensible means for using H2 as a fuel for both stationary and mobile power needs. Over the next 10 years, installation of a hydrogen infrastructure, using mainly nonrenewable hydrogen coupled with sequestration of CO2 or some other intelligent carbon management scheme, is one near-term approach. Longer term H2 production based on renewable fuels or nonfossil fuels should be a target. To implement the technologies that are suitable for the future, we need to focus on developing reforming technologies on much smaller scales suitable for industrial site applications, refueling stations, small businesses, and individual dwellings. For example, a small reformer could be used to process part of the hydrocarbon fuel to produce H2 and CO2 where the H2 is then blended back into the fuel stream producing hydrogen-enriched fuel for use in stationary turbines for NOx reduction. This does nothing for CO2 management today, but it does put into place some of the end-use technologies for tomorrow. In the future we can replace these small reformers with H2 generated in a CO2 neutral fashion. We can also accelerate increasing the H/C ratio used in these systems.
C. H2 Supply
Courty and Chauvel 18 described the dramatic shift in the supply and demand for H2 which has evolved in the last 20 years. In the 1980s, demand for H2 was low and less than the production of H2, then a byproduct within most refineries. In fact, refineries often managed to supply their own H2 needs by careful balance of reaction chemistries. With the advent of more stringent emission controls for automobiles (demanding less benzene and sulfur compounds in the gasoline) and more stringent nitrogen oxide emissions requirements, refineries have responded by using the proven technologies of hydrodesulfurization and hydrodenitrogenation. In the past, production of large volumes of benzene as a refinery product often resulted in byproduct H2. The mandated drop in the levels of aromatics in gasoline resulted in less H2 production in the refineries coupled with an increase in the demand for H2 for hydrogenation reactions. Refineries were once viewed as net producers of H2; however, they are now major consumers of H2 with the establishment of many independent H2 production plants (using steam methane reforming or partial oxidation) on the perimeter of many of the world's major refineries. The long-term forecast is for the overall demand to increase into the next century with some dramatic deficiencies forecast between supply and demand.13,19,20 These demand increases apply both to refinery and nonrefinery uses (see Figure 2). Cromarty also draws this conclusion in a recent market review on H2. 21 Figure 2 Nonrefinery U.S. Demand for H2.
D. Carbon Formation
In H2 production, there are always concerns with regard to carbon formation 22 which can build rapidly and poison the process. Carbon leads to fouling (clogging) of the reactor and blocks active sites on the catalyst, and thus it is important to inhibit carbon formation. For these reasons, coproduction of carbon presents a serious processing hurdle. There must be acceptable, energy-efficient means to remove any accumulating carbon coproduct.
There are two major pathways for carbon formation: The tendency to form carbon on the catalyst surface depends on reaction kinetics, process conditions (temperature, pressure flow rates), and reformer design. 23 These carbon-forming reactions are delicately balanced by carbon-consuming reactions such as in eqs 3 and 4, which are also dependent upon reaction kinetics, process conditions, and reactor design.
In fact it has been proposed that the working commercial SMR-reduced Ni catalyst is coated with a working layer of carbon. Laboratory operations over periods of days are not sufficient to test for carbon formation; instead, new catalysts must be evaluated for months under simulated process conditions and reactor configurations. Carbon deposit types 24 and their formation 25,26 have been characterized. Commercial approaches to minimize potential carbon formation include high ratios of steam to hydrocarbon, the continual addition of ppm levels of sulfur compounds to the feed stream, 27 the addition of alkali promoters, 28 and added support phases such as MgAl spinel.
E. Steam Reforming of Hydrocarbons to Produce H2: Where the Field Stands
Currently, steam methane reforming [SMR] is the most commonly utilized process for H2 production with feedstocks ranging from methane to light hydrocarbons (see Figure 3). This is a mature technology, but there is certainly room for improvements. Current Ni or Ru catalysts are adequate to produce H2, which is currently thermodynamically limited for this very endothermic process. Formation of carbon (coke) during the process is a critical issue that impacts performance and lifetime of commercial catalysts. Current technology can remove and minimize coke formation. However, the goal of current research must be to do so more effectively, to extend catalyst life, to reduce the operating temperatures (admittedly at the expense of lower conversions), and to reduce the steam-to-hydrocarbon ratio. Typically, excess steam-to-hydrocarbon (3/1) is used to minimize coke formation on commercial catalysts. By sulfur catalyst passivation (continual addition of trace levels of sulfur compounds to the feed) or by the incorporation of noble metals, it is also possible to minimize carbon formation. This latter approach is predominantly considered only when CO-rich syngas is required, not as a preferred approach to making H2.
Figure 3 Simplified process flow diagram for steam reforming of methane.
In research on improvements to SMR, catalysts must be studied at high pressures [>10 atm] because pressure can impact carbon deposition profoundly. Catalysts can also fail because of Ni sintering or carbon deposition in cold spots within the reactor tubes. In this respect it is noteworthy that commercial processes operate with a significant temperature gradient along the catalyst bed with the outlet temperature of some reformers approaching 930 C. 29 Therefore, thermal reactions occur after the products emerge from the catalyst bed. Furthermore, the catalyst is very sensitive to poisons, and the high reaction temperature limits the operating lifetime of the Ni alloy reactor tubes. Finally, a poorly prepared catalyst can lead to migration of the alkali from the catalyst, resulting in downstream corrosion.15 Any research on catalyst improvement should consider all pertinent issues that impact the optimization of the catalyst in a SMR reactor.
F. Barriers to Further Progress
Issues of thermodynamics and heat transfer restrict operating temperatures. Membrane reactors have been considered as alternatives. However, these are not easily scaled-up and are currently unreliable. Furthermore, they are too expensive to operate because H2 must be utilized in these reactors at elevated pressure and the cost of the required compression is prohibitive.12 There is considerable interest in producing H2 as a fuel for fuel cells. However, no current fuel cell can operate within the temperature limits of commercial reformers.
A significant part of the catalyst loaded into tubular reformers is unused or poorly utilized because heat transfer is often the limiting factor. Engineering design advances are needed and are being pursued, such as heat exchange reformers or alteration of the catalyst geometry. Operation of steam reformers for CO production is also limited by metal dusting arising from the production of CO and its reaction with the nickel alloys of the reactor tubes at 650 C. Operating outside the regimes for metal dust formation offers advantages of safer operation, lower costs, and corrosion avoidance.
The use of ex-situ surface science methods to better understand the working catalysts is hampered by the extreme temperatures (850 C) and pressures (400 psig) needed for operation of current commercial catalysts. The implementation of in-situ surface science techniques to monitor catalyst performance should be explored (see Section V). For example, ultraviolet Raman, 30 sum frequency generation, 31 and synchrotron-based methods such as X-ray scattering 32 could be applied toward these kinds of systems at extreme process conditions.
G. Promising Areas for Research
At the fundamental research level, there is a need for in-situ catalyst characterization at >20 atm, the actual process pressure. In the United States, with the exception of several industrial laboratories, there are few facilities that have capabilities for studying and testing reforming catalysts under actual process conditions. The lifetime of the catalyst is an important criterion in evaluating new catalysts with respect to current commercial SMR technologies; claims of superior catalytic performance must be verified by operation at the high pressures and temperatures of conventional processes for extended periods, i.e., thousands of hours. Of particular value would be a simple, accelerated aging test that allows assessment of catalyst life in hours or days rather than the usual period of months.
Other promising research areas include understanding catalyst sintering, sulfur poisoning, and metal dust formation. Only 50% of the fuel used to heat SMR reactors is actually used to make H2; the balance of the heat energy is recovered in steam, which is then sold to other customers but is not typically useful for making additional H2. Research to discover a more efficient way to utilize the energy in SMR operations (e.g., heat exchange reformers) is needed to reduce costs and CO2 production. Sintering of active Ni metal particles limits current catalyst performance; thus, a better understanding of the factors that impact this aspect of catalyst behavior would be highly desirable. Since sulfur is present in many of the feedstocks, additional research efforts should address sulfur removal as well as the development of more sulfur-tolerant catalysts. A further understanding of metal dust formation and corrosion of the reactor system is needed as well as an understanding of those factors that contribute to methane decomposition to elemental carbon.
Major improvements in the current technologies could be realized with new catalysts that optimize CO2 and/or H2O adsorption, enhance surface reactions, or inhibit the formation of elemental carbon. Current reformers are heat-transfer-limited rather than catalyst-limited and are loaded with large excesses of catalyst because of the space velocities utilized. Better methods for the transfer of heat into the reactor, including novel catalyst shapes, are needed to impact overall yield and process performance.
In addition, there is a need to develop nonconventional approaches to H2 generation. Plasma decomposition of methane to carbon has been explored. 33 However, the inherent energy-intensive nature of this approach makes its commercial viability questionable. Operating SMR in a cyclic mode, that is, separating the decomposition of methane to carbon and H2 from the water/carbon reaction has been demonstrated in the laboratory to generate CO-free hydrogen. 34 However, large-scale development and lifetime tests have not been carried out. The advantage of this methodology is the possibility of coupling H2 synthesis with fuel-cell power generation, which requires H2 with CO levels typically below 20 ppm. In any case, in all approaches to the generation of H2 from hydrocarbons, a very important issue is carbon formation and its transformation into an inactive form that leads to excessive carbon buildup.
There are a number of emerging and attractive approaches to H2 production. However, the greatest opportunities with respect to CO2 production are those nonfossil fuel-based H2 technologies where major breakthroughs are needed. In considering new technologies for H2 production, one must consider the integrated process, that is, the separation and purification steps, the net energy demands and balance, the quality of the feed, etc. Ultimately, the route chosen to produce H2 will depend not only upon the technological advances, but also on the economics, the related environmental issues, and the market demands.
H. Alternative Means of Producing H2
Besides improvements to the existing technologies for producing H2, there are a number of other potential pathways 12,35 to produce H2. These include the following: (1) methane decomposition, (2) use of membrane reactors, (3) solar energy for electrolysis of water, (4) solar-assisted SMR or CH4 decomposition, (5) photocatalysis, (6) selective oxidation of methane, (7) oxidative dehydrogenation, (8) electrolysis of water using fuel cells, (9) biomass conversion, and (10) biological H2 production. Only the use of solar energy for decomposition of water offers a direct, non-carbon approach, although, in principle, biomass may offer a CO2 neutral approach.
I. Use of Methane
Methane is used via SMR as an indirect source of H2. However, it could be used directly as a source of hydrogen for other catalytic transformations. There are reports in the literature in which CH4 is decomposed to H2 and carbon, which is then converted in a separate step to CO or CO236 or used in an elemental carbon product. In addition to using methane as a source of hydrogen, one can also envision pyrolysis of methane to H2 and C2 hydrocarbons as in eq 5.
The difficult step in both reactions is the formation of carbon from the decomposition of methane, according to eqs 5 and 6 Parmon33 discussed this concept and the use of microwave or plasma energy to carry out reaction 6; however, consideration of the overall energy balance likely makes this approach economically impractical. The use of fluidized beds of nickel catalysts operating at 650 C and 1 atm to produce H2 is also possible. Obviously, in either of these processes the incorporation of a separation step to recover the H2 from the carbon coproducts as well as a market for the carbon coproducts would be required.
With regard to the potential of using the hydrogen value within methane, without having to produce H2, methane has also been used as a chemical reducing agent to convert nitrobenzene to aniline over a copper chromite catalyst.37 Methane can also be used to reduce NOx as can H2;38,39 however, H2 is simply too expensive to be used for destroying NOx in large, global quantities. Methane [in the presence of O2] can also be used to reduce NOx to N2 and is an example of using the hydrogen value of methane as a H2 substitute for NOx reduction.40,41 In a nonoxidizing stream, CH4 can be used to reduce NOx but with a large excess of CH4. There is currently a coal-fired power plant in New Mexico which uses local supplies of natural gas from wells to reduce SO2 to H2S, which is then converted to sulfur using Claus technology (10% of the electricity generated is used for SO2 scrubbing!). This H2S product as well as other natural H2S supplies are potential sources of H2; however, their utilization presents another set of very challenging problems.
J. Use of Membrane Reactors
There continues to be interest in using H2 permselective42 metal alloy membranes to produce ultrapure H2, typically used concurrently in chemical processing. Some examples of Pd alloys for enhancing dehydrogenation43 or SMR44 reactions have been reported. Economic evaluations of these processes suggest some positive aspects. However, the application of membrane reactors for H2 production has been questioned. 45-47 The use of membranes in enhancing H2 production is limited by the quality of the reactant streams available. Reactants containing CO, H2S, or aromatics are unacceptable because of their tendency to poison Pd surfaces; therefore, these reactors will be limited by mass transport and suffer from low working surface area. Membrane fouling is unacceptable with these systems. Today's Pd-based alloy membranes produce very pure H2, but almost always at low pressure. Currently, when scaled-up, large Pd membranes have a history of catastrophic failure 48 and require a thickness which reduces the flux of H2 to unacceptable levels. Typical industrial uses require H2 at high pressures [>20 bar] with the associated cost of compression prohibitive. Thus, the current limitation of membranes to the production of low-pressure H2 is a serious barrier to commercialization. Polymer-based membranes, although capable of producing up to 98% purity H2, are sensitive to high temperatures and to the presence of organic amines in the reactant stream (often present from prior CO2 removal operations). There is a brief description 49 regarding the recovery of H2 at high pressure from an NH3 purge gas stream. However, these results have not been verified or confirmed. In an alternative approach, Sircar et al. demonstrated the use of carbon-coated supports for the recovery of H2 from targeted refinery streams. 50,51 In these selective surface flow membranes, H2 is rejected from the membrane allowing recovery of high-pressure H2 (with some other rejected components from the membrane) in an enriched retentate stream.
K. Solar Energy for Photoelectrolysis and Photocatalysis of Water Reactions
Water is the ultimate feedstock for H2 production. Using visible light to photocatalytically decompose water into H2 and O2 in an efficient manner would have an enormous impact on the future production of H2. This is a formidable research problem that has been under study for decades by many groups around the world with very limited success. Early research used ultraviolet light to decompose water, albeit inefficiently, over titania and other oxides. 52 However, for practical reasons visible light rather than UV radiation must be used for any commercial application of photocatalysis. There are limited materials that can utilize a significant portion of the visible spectrum, and progress is being made in this direction. 53 Extensive research toward the development of photocatalytic and photoelectrochemical materials that efficiently absorb visible light are being conducted. 54,55 For example, Arakawa's group split water to H2 and O2 stoichiometrically using mixtures of sodium carbonate with NiOx/TiO2 and solar radiation. 56-58 Arakawa and Linkous proposed a dual-bed photocatalytic water splitting system for utilizing visible light and for the separate production of H2 and O2 using narrow band gap semiconductor photocatalysts such as WO3. Domen and co-workers demonstrated the production of H2 using mixed-metal oxides, albeit with UV light. 59,60 Technological barriers include raising the current quantum yields substantially from a fraction of a percent to at least 10% while utilizing light out to 600 nm. New materials with suitable band structures to utilize the theoretically applicable solar spectrum are crucial to the success of this effort. An alternative approach is a hybrid system that combines organic and inorganic materials, e.g., a low cost and efficient, dye-sensitized oxide semiconductor solar cell. 61,62 Along these lines, Gretzel61,62 and co-workers demonstrated a tandem cell composed of a photocatalyst and a dye-sensitized oxide semiconductor solar cell which promises improved efficiencies. The overall, primary goal must be the development of a very efficient catalyst that operates at or near ambient temperature and pressure with high activity and selectivity. The long-term goal is the efficient utilization of the entire solar spectrum with photocatalysts and/or solid-state devices having long lifetimes and exceptional reliability. Laboratory photovoltaic devices already operate at 30% efficiency which, when coupled with the 8090% efficiency of electrolysis, provide a 2427% total conversion efficiency. As in electrocatalysis, the production of H2 and O2 must be separated spatially. Devices which decompose water into H2 + O2 mixtures are less attractive in view of explosion hazards and problems of secondary separations, for which Pd membranes are principally unsuitable. Homogeneously catalyzed photodecomposition also has been pursued. Efficiencies and routes to H2 formation are more advanced than those for generation of O2. Progress hinges on increasing the thermodynamic and mechanistic understanding of metal hydrides, metaloxo complexes, and related systems.A potential alternative approach to H2 generation is to employ an external power source or photovoltaic device (solar driven) to electrolytically decompose water. Turner 63 reported that water decomposition can be carried out with an overall efficiency of 12% using a monolithic photovoltaic/photoelectrochemical device (GaAs/GaInPx). However, several technical problems must be resolved before commercialization of this approach is feasible. It should also be noted when considering the implementation of this and related technologies that the current hydroelectric capacity is completely subscribed; thus, additional electrical power generation capability would be required to implement extensive electrolytic hydrogen generation.For a solar-based process to be practical, it must be highly efficient, having both a high overall quantum yield with minimum formation of any coproduct and using as much of the incident light as possible. Furthermore, the photocatalyst must be long-lived, low-cost, and capable of operation in hostile environments (sand storms, salt spray, etc). Ultimately, the H2 and O2 must be separated, requiring additional processing and cost. Therefore, the prospects for the development of successful technologies for the efficient generation of H2 using solar radiation are certainly long term (>5 years out). Nonetheless, photocatalytic and photoelectrolytic processes are attractive nonfossil fuel approaches to H2 production.
L. Catalytic Selective Oxidation of Methane to Synthesis Gas
The oxidative decomposition of methane into CO and H2 is favorable; however, it is extremely difficult to avoid further oxidation of methane to CO2 and water. Ideally, it is desirable to perform a gentle, selective oxidation of methane with O2 (eq 8) and to avoid detonation of CH4/O2 by use of catalytic thermal partial oxidation (POX = partial oxidation). This is particularly acute for large systems. However, this approach (POX and a variant known as autothermal reformation) is being aggressively pursued by scaling to small- and medium-sized applications. This is the reformation technology of choice being considered by the transportation sector for on-board vehicular reformation; however, this approach still requires carrying out the watergas shift to convert CO to H2 (CO + H2O  CO2 + H2). Many industries considering hydrogen as fuel endorse this and other reformation technologies carried out at a central site with the hydrogen, stored on-board, used to fuel the vehicle. This central facility for hydrogen generation could utilize the same technology as that proposed for on-board vehicular applications. However, it would also provide a point source for CO2 generation and management.
Schmidt and co-workers 64 made substantial progress in understanding mechanistically the very difficult partial oxidation of methane using noble-metal-coated monoliths with very short reaction contact times (see also Section III.C on hydrocarbon oxidation). There are two recent U.S. patents 65,66 which report interesting results suggesting that some of the difficulties can be circumvented or minimized. A Shell patent65 claims that reaction 8 can be carried out using a 0.5% Rh/ZrO2 monolith operating at 1155 C and 3 atm pressure with 97% CH4 conversion and 92% selectivity to CO and 90% selectivity to H2. Another recent report 67 has shown that the addition of Gd to a cobalt oxide catalyst with a CH4/O2/helium ratio of 2/1/4 at 830 C yields 73% conversion with 80% selectivity to CO/ H2. Any practical extension of this latter work will depend on the intended application and may require the avoidance of helium or any diluent (because of the need for separation and purification of the H2 product), the demonstration of sustained catalyst lifetime over months of operation, and process function in a commercially acceptable safe operating regime. The current lab-bench experiments require the use of CH4/O2 mixtures in the detonation regime and are unacceptable for large-scale commercial units. However, there may be opportunities with respect to developing this technology on a smaller scale, e.g., sizes on the order of 50100 kW, where the processes can be more easily controlled. A recent review by Pea23 provides other useful commentary and insight regarding new developments in this technology.
M. Other Methods for H2 Generation
Other noncatalytic approaches include the thermochemical splitting of water using a solar furnace or nuclear energy. The heat from a nuclear reactor or a solar furnace can be used to drive a series of chemical reactions with net production of H2 and O2. 68 These are not catalytic and require large amounts of heat at temperatures in excess of 700 C. Alternatively, the solar furnace can be used to increase the temperature of the water supplied to an electrolysis unit, which, in turn, reduces the amount of energy required to split water into H2 and O2. However, separation of the H2 from the O2 must still be incorporated into these alternative approaches.
There has also been a good deal of interest in using biomass 69 as a means for generating H2. While this allows potential recycling of CO2, it demands large acreages for growth of the trees and plants that consume CO2. Power plants, in turn, burn these to produce energy and CO2. However, use of prime agricultural resources in such a manner does not appear viable. On the other hand, the use of wet biomass and organic wastes is a viable alternative, offering the same CO2 benefit without the need to use prime agricultural resources solely for the production of an energy crop. Wet biomass and organic wastes could be efficiently gasified under hydrothermal conditions to produce a hydrogen-rich fuel gas. One approach is the hydrothermal conversion of organic material with the addition of alkali metals at high pressures in water, 70 such as the gasification of glucose in hot water at 600 C and 300 bar. This provides a much higher thermal efficiency, an H2-rich (60%) gas with low CO yield in one step, suppressed tar formation, without the need for extensive N or S removal. Technical hurdles that remain include: (1) the need for pilot-plant studies and reliable high-pressure feeding systems; (2) the avoidance of fouling problems of the heat exchanger, the preheater, and the reactor; (3) the use of metallic process equipment resistant to H2-induced structural embrittlement, and (4) a waste treatment plant to handle the exhaust.
Another H2 production approach uses biologically based systems such as the hydrogenase enzymes in anaerobic microorganisms to catalyze production of H2 from proton sources such as water. The active sites in these enzymes surprisingly have been found to have dinuclear iron or FeNi centers with organometallic ligands such as CO and CN (Figure 4). 71 Molecular hydrogen coordination (η2-H2) to the active site is presumably important here and in all homogeneous reactions of hydrogen, and such σ complexes are intermediates in CH bond activation as well (see Section III on functionalization of hydrocarbons). 72 It should be possible to design organometallic mimics 73 for these sites, although a key hurdle is the electron-donor source needed to reduce protons to H2. While the enzymatic approach is highly efficient (106 turnovers/s!) and operates at 1 atm and room temperature, it requires an energy source such as a sugar or other electron donors. Incorporating a means to provide reasonable energy input is a critical issue that should be addressed as part of such alternative approaches. Indirectly, since a major fraction of the hydrogen produced globally is used to synthesize NH3, one can also envision mimicking nitrogenase, a related metalloenzyme which fixes N2 and H2 equivalents to produce NH3 without formally producing H2. Efforts in this direction have been significant for the past 30 years. Recent structural data for the FeMo active site offers fresh insight for designing an inorganic catalyst. 74 It is quite clear from studies of biosystems that compounds of the least expensive transition metal, iron, are remarkably efficient catalysts for a wide range of small molecule conversions. Thus, any new research in this area should first consider Fe-based catalysts with polymetallic sites, such as that discussed above and the dinuclear Fe site in methane monooxygenase (see Section III.E).
Figure 4 Structure of the active site of hydrogenase from C. Pasteurianum, determined by Peters,71a showing proposed H2 activation at the site occupied by a displaceable water ligand in the crystal structure. Electrons presumably flow in from the protein via an FeS cubane cluster and into the FeFe unit, which is reduced and then protonated by a nearby cysteine SH group. A labile molecular hydrogen (η2-H2) ligand can form, which dissociates to releases H2 gas. Adapted with permission from ref 73e.
N. Fuel Cells
There is considerable recent interest 75,76 in using H2-based fuel cells as a future source of energy. A number of fuel cell devices are under consideration, most of which use H2 at 1.0 atm pressure or less. These are discussed in detail in Section VI.D. We note here that for transportation to remote customers, H2 compression and distribution will be required. Often methanol is the fuel of choice for H2-based fuel cells; however, it should be noted that costs to transport the methanol from the production site to the fuel cells will be significant, since a suitable methanol distribution system and infrastructure does not exist.
O. Needs/Challenges/Opportunities
In summary, the key points with respect to research needs, challenges, and opportunities emphasized in this section are as follows: (1) more catalyst evaluation and in situ characterization studies at >10 atm under in-situ conditions; (2) need for accelerated aging studies to quickly assess catalyst performance under real operating conditions; (3) better mechanistic understanding of factors which cause catalyst sintering; (4) more efficient means of energy input into SMR operations; (5) overcome heat transfer limitations in SMR operations; (6) improved control of metal dust formation and corrosion; (7) pursuit of nonfossil fuel-based H2 production technologies; (8) use of CH4 as a substitute for H2 in chemicals production; (9) development of safe operating processes for direct CH4 oxidation to CO/H2; (10) development of efficient photocatalytic processes for H2O splitting that operate at or near ambient temperature and pressure with high activity and selectivity; (11) utilization of the entire solar spectrum for photocatalytic/photoelectrolytic processes for H2O splitting; and (12) better mechanistic understanding and implementation of what is learned from biomimetic H2 formation processes.
P. Summary
This section summarizes the status of various H2 production science and technology. There is considerable room for improvement in the most widely used commercial approach, steam methane reforming, especially at higher pressures. However, more research is critical with respect to alternative technologies, especially those that do not utilize fossil fuels. In the near term, methane (natural gas) is an attractive source of H2. However, more direct and less energy intensive approaches are needed for H2 production from CH4. Combined with intelligent carbon management, reformation of our hydrocarbon resources can provide a near term environmentally sensitive source of H2. In the long term, photocatalysis with sunlight or photoelectrolysis offer nonfossil fuel routes to H2, some of which would produce O2-free H2 without the necessity of H2/O2 separation.
III. Selective Functionalization of Hydrocarbons
A. Introduction
Olefins and aromatics are used by the chemical industry as primary building blocks to produce chemical intermediates and polymers. These chemical precursors are made by high-temperature, endothermic processes, such as cracking, dehydrogenation, and reforming, starting from petroleum and natural gas. CO2 is generated by the combustion of fuel to supply the energy required to produce olefins and aromatics, and additional CO2 is generated during the partial oxidation of these products to oxygen-containing compounds (e.g., aldehydes, alcohols, carboxylic acids), since these latter processes typically have selectivities of 5080%.
A significant reduction of these CO2 emissions could be achieved by developing selective oxidation processes for converting methane and C2C4 alkanes to olefins and oxygenates directly. There are also economic incentives for this approach, since low molecular weight alkanes, particularly methane, are readily available and are less expensive than olefins and aromatics. As a consequence, one can envision the replacement of highly endothermic processes needed to generate unsaturated precursors with exothermic, single-step alkane-oxidation processes that, if properly operated, would generate energy as well as chemical products. If catalysts could be devised to do this selectively, a green chemical process technology with enormous economic benefits would result. The development of more selective catalysts for the oxidation of olefins and aromatics should also be pursued, since success will contribute to additional reductions in CO2 emissions.
Several illustrations of the processes currently under study or development for the oxyfunctionalization of light alkanes are presented in Table 2. While only four of the processes listed have been commercialized, a much larger number are being actively investigated in academic and industrial laboratories. The implementation of novel processes for the conversion of alkanes to olefins and oxygenated compounds requires the discovery, understanding, and development of homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts exhibiting high activity, selectivity, and stability as well as the development of novel concepts of catalytic reactor design and operation. Progress made toward these ends and the research challenges that must be met in order to develop catalysts exhibiting high activity and selectivity are discussed in the following sections.
Table 2. Processes under Study or Development for the Oxyfunctionalization of Light Paraffins (C1C6) in the Petrochemical Industrya rawmaterial product phase developmentstage methane chloromethanes gas,heterog. industrial methane methanol gas,het./hom. pilotplant methane syngas gas,het./hom. research methane ethylene gas,het./hom. pilotplant 1,2-dichloroethane,vinylchloride gas,heterog. pilotplant ethane aceticacid gas,heterog. research ethane ethylene gas,het./hom. research propane acrylicacid gasorliquid research propane propylalcohol liquid,homog. research propane acrylonitrile gas,heterog. demonstrativeplant propane propylene gas,heterog. research n-butane aceticacid liquid,homog. industrial n-butane maleicanhydride gas,heterog. industiral n-butane butadiene gas,heterog. industrialabandoned isobutane methacrylicacid gas,heterog. pilotplant isobutane isobutene gas,heterog. research isobutane t-butylalcohol liquid,het.orhom. research n-pentane phthalicanhydride gas,heterog. research cyclohexane cyclohexanol,one liquid,homog. industrial cyclohexane cyclohexanone liquid,het.orhom. research aHet./hom. indicates the likely presence of a mechanism initiated on the catalyst surface and transferred to the gas phase.
B. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Alkanes to Alkenes
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers a potentially attractive means for the production of alkenes. As illustrated below for the case of propane conversion to propene, the central issue is how to achieve a high yield of propene while avoiding the combustion of propane or propene to CO2 (eqs 911).
While many oxide catalysts exhibit high alkene selectivity (e.g., >80%) at very low alkane conversion levels, all show a decrease in alkene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. For supported metal oxides, it has been observed empirically that the decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support. 77 While a large body of literature exists on the ODH of alkanes, current understanding of the elementary processes involved in both the formation of alkenes and their subsequent combustion is limited. In particular, there is a lack of understanding concerning the relationships of catalyst composition and structure to catalyst activity and selectivity. Knowledge of these relationships would be very useful for guiding the modification of existing catalysts and for the synthesis of totally new classes of catalysts.
Figure 5 Dependence of the rate constant ratios for the oxidative dehydrogenation processes of eqs 911 on the VOx domain sizes and optical absorption band edge for vanadia supported on various metal oxides.
Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. 78,79 A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UVvisible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Since calcination at 773 K caused changes in the BET surface area of the samples, which depended on the weight loading of vanadia, the loading of vanadia is expressed in V atoms/nm2. Selective adsorption of CO2 on the zirconia support reveals that up to 1.2 V/nm2, corresponding to 60% coverage of the support, is deposited primarily as monomeric vanadate species. At higher vanadia surface densities, polyvanadates appear, and the surface of the zirconia becomes fully covered by a monolayer of vanadia at a surface density of 7.5 V/nm2. Raman spectroscopy and UVvisible absorption edge energy measurements confirm the progressive growth in the nuclearity of the supported vandia species with increasing vanadia surface loading. Values of the rate coefficients for eqs 911 were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UVvisible absorption band edge energy. As seen in Figure 5, while the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains.
C. Selective Oxidation of Hydrocarbons to Oxygenated Products: Approaches Involving Heterogeneous Catalysts
The selective oxidation of hydrocarbons to oxygenates represents a significant challenge, since often more than one oxygenated product can be produced from a given starting material, and all products are susceptible to complete combustion to CO2. Examples of the reactions one would like to carry out include the conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde; ethane to ethylene glycol, acetic acid, or acetaldehyde; propane to acrolein, acrylic acid, or 1,3-propane diol; butane to 1,4-butane diol or maleic anhydride; and isobutane to methacrylic acid. While considerable research has been carried out on each of these reactions, only two have been commercialized: the conversion of butane to acetic acid and the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride.
Mixed-metal oxide catalysts, often containing V as one of the elements, have been examined as candidates for the selective oxidation of alkanes. However, as seen in Table 3, such catalysts produce only small to moderate yields of the desired product. An exception is the work reported by Mitsubishi in which propane is oxidized to acrylic acid in yields exceeding 52% over a catalyst formulated as MoV0.3Ti0.23Nb0.12Ox. 80 This catalyst is even more effective in catalyzing the conversion of propane directly to acrylonitrile when the vapor-phase oxidation is run in the presence of ammonia. 81 Another example is the announcement by BP of a process to carry out the conversion of propane to acrylonitrile over a VSbO4 catalyst. 82 These results suggest that the catalytic properties of oxygen associated with vanadium can be tailored by altering the environment in the immediate vicinity of the V atoms. This idea is supported by recent investigations of butane and pentane oxidation over supported vanadia catalysts. 83 Table 3. Active Vanadium Oxide Species and Catalytic Properties of Vanadium-Based Catalysts aAt low vanadium content.bMonolayer catalysts.cAt high vanadium content dV, and va = vanadium with tetrahedral octahedral coordination repectively.eAA = acetic acid, PA = phthalic anhydride, MA = maleic anhydride.fEthanal is also observed.gAcrolein is also observed.
Figure 6 shows that the effects of the phosphorus/vanadium ratio on the selectivity of maleic anhydride formation via butane oxidation over supported vanadium phosphate catalysts. 84 The selectivity to maleic anhydride increases monotonically with increasing P/V (phosphorus/vanadium) ratio. Near-edge analysis of X-ray absorption spectra taken during butane oxidation suggest that the high selectivity to maleic anhydride observed when P/V = 2 is associated with the stabilization of a high proportion of the V in the 4+ oxidation state. 85 A similar conclusion was reached in studies of pentane oxidation to maleic anhydride over alumina-supported vanadia. 86 Figure 6 Effect of phosphorus/vanadium ratio on the selectivity of maleic anhydride formulation via oxidation over vanadium phosphate catalysts.
Polyoxometalates (POMs) have recently emerged as a potentially interesting class of catalysts for the selective oxidation of alkanes and other hydrocarbons. 87-91 Figure 7 shows representative examples of such polyoxometalate anions. The properties of POMs can be varied dramatically by substitution of different metal ions into the anion framework. For example, starting with H3PMo12O40, one can exchange other cations for the protons which serve as countercations, one can substitute other metals such as W, V, and Cu into the framework of the heteropolyanion, and one can use heteroatoms such as Si in place of P. Thus, both the acidity of these materials and the redox properties of the heteropolyanion framework can be varied.
Figure 7 Schematic of heteropolyanion structures.
The considerable flexibility of POMs within a well-defined structure has led to the application of these materials as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. Examples of the applicability of POMs for alkane oxidation include isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid using H3PMo12O40 and vanadium-substituted derivatives, 92-94 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes using iron-substituted heteropolytungstates and heteropolymolybdates,92,93 propane oxidation to acrylic acid, 95 and methane oxidation to formic acid using PdCs salts of PVMo11O40. 94-96 There is also evidence suggesting that improved activity and selectivity for various metal-catalyzed oxidation processes can be achieved by coupling redox-active metal centers with redox-active POMs. Ordered surface structures consisting of both pure and mixed arrays of polyanions can be produced for catalysis and surface science experiments. The attractiveness of this approach is not only the chemical flexibility that it provides, but also the ability to interrogate the system by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in order to identify the changes occurring in individual POM units upon reaction.
D. Approaches Involving Homogeneous Catalysts
Although alkanes are generally unreactive toward soluble transition-metal complexes, organometallic chemists have identified several classes of compounds that react readily with the carbonhydrogen bonds of hydrocarbons, including alkanes, under mild conditions. Five general mechanisms have been identified for the activation of CH bonds of alkanes under mild conditions (Scheme 1): 97 (1) oxidative addition of the CH bond to a low-valent, electron-rich transition-metal center, yielding an alkyl hydride product, (2) σ-bond metathesis of the CH bond with high-valent electrophilic metal hydrides or hydrocarbyls to exchange the alkyl fragments between metal and hydrogen, (3) 1,2-addition of the CH bond across the metalnitrogen double bond for metal imido complexes, yielding the corresponding metal amido alkyl product, (4) homolytic cleavage of the CH bond (especially for methane) by two metal-centered radicals to afford a metal alkyl and a metal hydride product, and (5) electrophilic activation.
Scheme 1. Five Mechanisms for Homogeneous CH Bond Activation with Organotransition-Metal Compounds Although the first four processes represent highly significant developments and the elucidation of their mechanisms major achievements in organotransition-metal chemistry, none of these systems appears suited for the catalytic oxidative functionalization of hydrocarbons, e.g., the oxidation of methane by O2 to methanol. Organometallic reagents capable of effecting the first and fourth pathways are oxidatively unstable, and those capable of effecting the second and third pathways are protolytically unsuited, since they form prohibitively strong metalOR bonds.
Electrophilic activation by late transition-metal ions such as Pt(II), 98 Pd(II), 99 Rh, 100 and Hg (II) 101 stands in marked contrast (eqs 12 and 13).
Such systems have been shown to effect both stoichiometric and catalytic oxidations of alkanes, including methane. Although none of the present systems is practical (since none display acceptable rates or do not use dioxygen as the oxidant), there have been some recent developments (discussed below) that are encouraging for eventual development of a workable catalytic alkane oxidative functionalization system.The most attractive feature of these electrophilic systems is their selectivity: the reactivity of the methyl group is substantially greater than that of an already functionalized position such as HCH2OH or HCH2SO4H (by as much as 100 times). It is possible by using the Shilov system to effect the remote oxidation of highly flexible linear and branched alkyl chains. The order of reactivity is α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH < δ-CH for alcohols and α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH  δ-CH for carboxylic acids, sulfonic acids, and phosphonic acids. 102 As a consequence of these properties, it is possible to achieve precise control with respect to the extent of oxidation (eq 14). These selectivity patterns suggest that higher alkanes might be sequentially oxidized to α,ω-diols (eq 15) and when coupled to primary alcohol dehydration alkanes to α-olefins (eq 16).The mechanisms of the Shilov system, 103 representing one class of such electrophilic hydroxylation systems, have now been studied extensively, and many of the mechanistic features have been established. 104 The reaction takes place in three stages: (i) electrophilic activation of RH by Pt(II) via a σ complex and a Pt(IV) alkyl hydride that undergoes deprotonations to a Pt(II) alkyl; (ii) oxidation by Pt(IV) to give a Pt(IV) alkyl; (iii) nucleophilic, SN2 attack of water at the α carbon of the latter with loss of H+ to give alcohol with Pt(II) as the leaving group. A key feature of the system is that the first step involves electrophilic attack by Pt(II) at the alkane CH bond, generating a platinum(II) alkyl-polarized Ptδ+Cδ-; following oxidation to platinum (IV) in second step, the bond reverses polarity to Ptδ-Cδ+, becoming susceptible to nucleophilic attack at carbon in step iii. A complication with the original Shilov chemistry involving only water and chloride ancillary ligation for platinum arises from the fact that the Pt(IV)/Pt(II) couple and the Pt(II)/Pt(0) couple have virtually the same redox potentials. Hence, Pt(II) may compete with Pt(IV) in the oxidation step (ii) and Pt(0) deposits from solution. Platinum metal particles appear to catalyze unwanted over-oxidation reactions.Using this mechanistic model as a guide, cationic Pt(II) systems have been developed that effectively activate alkanes, e.g., [(tmeda)Pt(CH3)(solv)]+ and most recently [(diimine)Pt(CH3)(solv)]+, with solv = pentafluoropyridine, nitromethane, and CF3CH2OH).104 Significantly, step i is most likely endothermic, and the success of the alkane functionalization with these highly electrophilic metal complexes results from oxidation of the intermediate Pt(II)alkyl, competitive with reprotonation to alkane via the reverse sequence. Obviously, replacing [PtCl6]2- with more practical alternative oxidants, most preferably O2, is required for developing a practical oxidative functionalization system. A very promising finding in this regard is that certain types of Pt(II) dialkyls undergo clean reactions with O2 in alcohols to generate Pt(IV) alkoxyhydroxides 105 (eq 17). Coupling this reaction as a replacement for step iii, although clearly nontrivial, would demonstrate the electrophilic approach to alkane oxidative functionalization, offering exciting possibilities for further development.Catalytica developed some strategies for the selective oxidation of methane to methyl hydrogensulfate utilizing electrophilic metal complexes in sulfuric acid. One of the first systems developed utilizes Hg2+ in sulfuric acid. 101,106 Maximum one-pass yields of approximately 40% at 90% selectivity are obtained (eq 18, Figure 8).A potentially practical scheme based on the known oxidation of SO2 and hydrolysis of methyl esters can be envisioned (eqs 1922).Figure 8 Reaction mechanism of the Hg(II) methane activation catalyst system.The key features of the reaction mechanism appear to involve three stages: (i) dissociative substitution of methane for a ligand (likely hydrogensulfate) at Hg2+ to generate a methane σ complex, which subsequently undergoes deprotonation to a methylmercury intermediate, (ii) functionalization by SN2 displacement of methyl hydrogensulfate with reduction of mercury and net formation of mercurous hydrogensulfate, and (iii) oxidation of mercurous to mercuric by sulfuric acid with release of SO2 and water. Interestingly, the first stage, methane activation, is reversible and the equilibrium constant for methylmercury formation is approximately 1.0 under reaction conditions (eq 23).Other electrophilic cations have been investigated in an effort to find a substitute for Hg(II). Recently, the Catalytica group established that Pt(II) with the chelate bipyrimidine provides a superior catalyst system as compared to the mercury system. 107 Moreover, this catalyst is thermodynamically robust and may be generated not only by addition of bipyrimidine to [PtCl2]n in sulfuric acid, but also via oxidation of platinum black by bipryimidine/H2SO4 mixtures at 220 C (eq 24). Maximum one-pass yields of methyl hydrogensulfate with this system are approximately 73%. Not surprisingly, there are many mechanistic similarities of this system with the original Shilov platinum system that operates in aqueous solution with Pt(IV), rather than with sulfuric acid as oxidant.While the yields of this catalytic system are among the highest ever reported for the direct oxidation of methane to an oxygenate, there are several disadvantages that have prevented commercialization of the process. The most important factors in decreasing order of disadvantage are as follows: (a) turnover frequencies are still at least 2 orders of magnitude too low, (b) methanol recovery from concentrated sulfuric acid is too costly, and (c) SO2 reoxidation to sulfuric acid is impractical. As an indication of the commercial possibilities of such systems, several companies have worked on various approaches to overcoming the key disadvantages with, however, no success to date.Recently, two catalytic systems have been reported which simultaneously activate both dioxygen and alkane CH and CC bonds, resulting in the direct oxidations of alkanes. 108,109 Although the mechanisms of these reactions have not yet been established, their general features, especially the chemoselectivities (higher reactivity of alkanes compared to alcohols; preference for methyl groups in functional organics), suggest that alkane activation likely occurs by an electrophilic pathway as discussed above. In the first system, a combination of metallic Pd and Cu chloride was found to catalyze the oxidation of methane and ethane by dioxygen at 70110 C in the presence of carbon monoxide.109No alkane oxidation is observed in the absence of added carbon monoxide. Studies indicated that the overall transformation encompasses three catalytic steps in tandem (Scheme 2). The first step is the watergas shift reaction involving the oxidation of carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide with the simultaneous formation of dihydrogen. It is possible to bypass this step by replacing carbon monoxide with dihydrogen. The second catalytic step involves the combination of dihydrogen with dioxygen to yield hydrogen peroxide (or its equivalent). The final step involves the metal-catalyzed oxidation of the substrate by hydrogen peroxide (or its equivalent).Scheme 2. Palladium-Catalyzed Oxidation of Alkanes with CO and O2 In the second (slower) system, RhCl3 in the presence of several equivalents of chloride and iodide is found to catalyze the direct functionalization of methane in the presence of carbon monoxide and dioxygen at 8085 C.108 The reaction proceeds in water to yield acetic acid as the principal product. It is possible to selectively form either methanol or acetic acid by a simple change in the solvent system.The Pd/Cu- and the Rh-based systems exhibit similar selectivity patterns that are, for the most part, without precedent. For example, in both cases, methane is significantly more reactive (>5 times) than methanol. For the Rh-based system, even methyl iodide is found to be less reactive than methane. A more interesting reactivity pattern exhibited by these two systems is their preference for CC cleavage over CH cleavage in the case of higher alkanes. For example, the Rh-based system converted ethane to a mixture of methanol, ethanol, and acetic, with the ratio of products formed through CH versus CC cleavage of 0.6 on a per bond basis.A curious aspect of the Pd/Cu- and Rh-based systems is that, apart from their ability to simultaneously activate both dioxygen and alkane, both require a coreductant (carbon monoxide). Thus, there is a striking resemblance to monoxygenases, which require a coreductant to deliver one oxygen per O2 reactant.
E. Enzymatic and Biomimetic Systems
Nature has evolved a number of iron-requiring enzymes that activate dioxygen and catalyze the oxidation of aliphatic CH bonds.110a Prominent among these are the heme-containing cytochrome P450 and the nonheme enzymes methane monooxygenase and fatty acid desaturases. Since these hydrocarbon oxidation reactions in biology are carried out at ambient temperature and pressure, catalysts designed based on this chemistry may have the advantage of requiring significantly less energy input than present technology based on heterogeneous catalysts. In the 1980s, much of the effort in biomimetic oxidations focused on the use of iron porphyrin catalysts, paralleling the development in our understanding of the mechanism of cytochrome P450. However, porphyrin ligands are susceptible to oxidative destruction, so more robust alternative ligand systems are desired.
Stimulated by early work on cytochrome P-450 mimics,110b metalloporphyrin complexes have been employed either as catalysts for the oxidation of alkanes using single oxygen atom transfer agents such as iodosyl benzene or for direct reaction of the alkane with molecular oxygen.110c When oxygen is used as the oxidant, elevated temperatures are required for alkane conversions, radical reactions predominate, and the metalloporphyrin catalysts suffer rapid oxidative degradation. Total replacement of the 28 hydrogens of metallotetraphenylporphyrin complexes with halogens (F, Cl, Br) enhances the stability of the complexes to oxidative degradation, causes large increases in the M(n + 1)/M(n) reduction potential, and greatly increases catalytic activity toward oxidation of secondary and tertiary CH bonds in alkanes by accelerating selective homolytic decomposition of intermediate hydroperoxides to alcohols via alkoxy radicals.110c Transition-metal complexes, such as cobalt carboxylates and acetylacetonates, have long been used in the industrial production of oxygenates from alkanes such as cyclohexane, butane, and others. These promoters of alkane autoxidation exhibit low activity toward alkanes. The unreactive primary CH bonds are inaccessible, and elevated temperatures are necessary for activating secondary and tertiary CH bonds in alkanes. Since high temperatures accelerate CC bond cleavage reactions in alkoxy radical intermediates, many undesirable byproducts can result and selectivity to the desired oxygenate can be poor. Some of the problems encountered with application of traditional metal complexes can be illustrated by oxidations of isobutane to tert-butyl alcohol, TBA, in the presence of cobalt salts.110d When isobutane is oxidized in the presence of cobalt(II) acetylacetonate at 100 C, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, TBHP, is a major product together with TBA. When the temperature is raised to 150 C, TBHP is substantially decomposed but major byproducts of CC cleavage including acetone and CO2 are formed. At intermediate temperatures one observes the worst of both worlds in which both unwanted hydroperoxide and CC bond cleavage products are formed. In all cases, TBA selectivity is low, never exceeding 77%.
By comparison, the autoxidation of isobutane to TBA can be carried out in the presence of [meso-tetrakispentafluorophenyl-β-octachloroporphyrin]iron(III) hydroxide at room temperature, giving TBA in 95% selectivity with very little CC bond cleavage.110c Industrially acceptable rates can be achieved at 80 C while maintaining 90% selectivity at a 50% conversion level. No hydroperoxide build up can be detected. The reason for not observing TBHP in crude reaction products and for accelerated reaction rates using these electron-deficient metalloporphyrin complexes is their extremely high activity for decomposing hydroperoxides, acting as living initiators that continuously provide high radical flux at low reaction temperatures.
The unusually high reactivity of electron-deficient metalloporphyrin complexes toward hydroperoxidic intermediates has stimulated several additional applications of these versatile catalysts. Direct, selective decomposition of hydroperoxides to alcohols gives near quantitative yields of cyclohexanol or TBA when electron-deficient iron perhaloporyphyrin catalysts are used. Electron-deficient ruthenium complexes are able to catalyze the direct oxidation of alkanes using hydroperoxides as oxidants. This reaction has potential application in the generation of nylon intermediates from cyclohexane. Co-oxidations of alkanes in the presence of easily activated CH bonds can bring more difficult secondary CH bonds into reaction. For instance, co-oxidation of cyclohexane with acetaldehyde gives KA oil (a 9:1 mixture of cyclohexanol:cyclohexanone used in Nylon manufacture) in good yield with tens of thousands of turnovers using electron-deficient ruthenium or manganese fluoroporphyrin complexes.110e Acetaldehyde is oxidized to the peracid, which in turn is the oxidant for cyclohexane. A process has been envisioned110e for the co-oxidation of acetaldehyde and cyclohexane to produce KA oil and acetic acid as coproducts.
Despite being highly efficient, alkane autoxidation catalysts which afford high turnover rates for alkanes having tertiary CH bonds, electron-deficient metalloporphyrin complexes are not yet active enough to give the rapid rates of unactivated secondary CH bonds at the low temperatures needed for commercial applications. Although they are more stable under oxidation conditions than unsubstituted metalloporphyrins that have many CH bonds, they are still not robust enough to be used in most industrial applications. Finally, even though improved synthetic procedures have been developed, they are still too expensive to be used for catalysts in commodity chemical oxidations. If longer lived, more active, and less expensive analogues could be designed and synthesized, the selectivity of a number of important catalytic chemical process technologies could be vastly improved. These might include the direct oxidations of cyclohexane to KA oil, isobutane to TBA, propane to IPA/acetone, butane to MEK/s-butyl alcohol and others. Catalysts of this type would complement the electrophilic complexes which preferentially attack primary CH bonds, affording catalysts which attack secondary and tertiary CH bonds in preference to primary bonds, and do so in a selective manner without forming CO2 and other unwanted byproducts. Such a battery of new complexes, if they could be developed, would provide the ability to selectively activate primary, secondary, and tertiary CH bonds in alkanes to give valuable oxygenates at will.
In the past 10 years, research efforts on methane monooxygenase and related enzymes have substantially increased our understanding of oxygen activation at nonheme diiron active sites. 110 Figure 9 shows the active site of the hydroxylase component of methane monooxygenase (MMOH) in its reduced and oxidized forms as deduced from X-ray diffraction. 111 The nonheme diiron center is coordinated to six amino acid ligands, namely, two histidines and four carboxylates. Two of the carboxylates act as bridging ligands to the diiron center in MMOHred, with available sites for dioxygen binding. Upon exposure to O2, MMOHred is converted to MMOHox and the monodentate carboxylate bridge becomes a terminal ligand with two solvent-derived ligands taking its place as bridges. Oxygen activation proceeds via two key intermediates, MMOH-P and MMOH-Q, identified in the rapid kinetic studies of Lipscomb and Lippard. Figure 10 illustrates a proposed mechanism for MMO, with oxidation state assignments derived from Mssbauer measurements. The proposed mechanism follows the paradigm for oxygen activation by metalloenzymes where dioxygen first binds to a reduced metal center to form a metalperoxo species, which is then converted to high-valent metaloxo species that serve as the actual oxidizing agent of the reaction. Two electrons from an electron donor such as NADH are required to close the catalytic cycle. The core structures associated with MMOH-P and MMOH-Q are proposed on the basis of comparisons with available model complexes.112a MMOH-P is deduced to be a (μ-1,2-peroxo)diiron(III) species on the basis of the similarity of its optical and Mssbauer properties112b to those of [Fe2(μ-O2)(μ-C6H5CH2CO2)2(TpiPr2)2] (TpiPr2 = hydridotris(3,5-diisopropylpyrazolyl)borate anion), a model complex first synthesized by Kitajima and more recently structurally characterized by Kim and Lippard.112c Similarly, MMOH-Q is proposed to have an Fe2(μ-O)2 diamond core structure.112d EXAFS studies show that MMOH-Q has an FeFe distance of 2.5 Å, a short distance which requires the presence of two or three single-atom bridges. To date, the only synthetic high-valent complex with a comparably short FeFe distance is [FeIIIFeIV(μ-O)2(5-Et3-TPA)2](ClO4)3 (5-Et3-TPA = tris(5-ethyl-2-pyridylmehyl)amine), which has an Fe2(μ-O)2 diamond core with a 2.68 Å FeFe distance.112e One or two additional carboxylate bridges may be required in the enzyme to shrink this distance to 2.5 Å. The catalytic cycle as presented in Figure 10 thus requires the active site to accommodate a change of FeFe distance from 2.5 to 4.0 Å.
Figure 9 Structures of the reduced and oxidized forms for the methane monooxygenase hydroxylase component (MMOH).
Figure 10 Proposed oxygen activation mechanism for methane monooxygenase.
Reactivity studies show that [FeIIIFeIV(μ-O)2(TPA)2]3+ (TPA = tris(2-pyridylmethyl)amine) can oxidize cumene to cumyl alcohol and α-methylstyrene, transformations analogous to the hydroxylation and dehydrogenation reactions catalyzed by methane monooxygenase and fatty acid desaturases.113a Thus, a high-valent Fe2(μ-O)2 diamond core is a viable candidate to carry out the oxidation chemistry of these enzymes. However, the synthetic complex is incapable of attacking CH bonds stronger than benzylic CH bonds. This less than desirable oxidative reactivity may derive from the fact that the synthetic complex is in the FeIIIFeIV oxidation state, rather than the FeIVFeIV state associated with MMOH-Q. Since the synthetic complex is obtained from the reaction of a diiron(III) precursor with H2O2, intermediates analogous to MMOH-P and MMOH-Q may be involved en route to the formation of the FeIIIFeIV complex. Thus, when 10 equiv of H2O2 is added to the precursor complex in the presence of cyclohexane, cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone are obtained in a 4:1 ratio with 40% of the oxidant converted to oxidized hydrocarbon products.113b Subsequent addition of more aliquots of H2O2 affords more products in the same ratio at the same peroxide conversion efficiency. These results demonstrate that the Fe(TPA)/H2O2 combination produces an oxidant capable of attacking the CH bonds of cyclohexane.
There have been many reports of alkane oxidation by combinations of iron complexes and peroxide oxidants.113c Often such combinations give rise to HaberWeiss chemistry and the aliphatic CH bond is cleaved by an alkoxy or hydroxy radical. Subsequent trapping of the incipient alkyl radical by O2 leads to approximately equimolar amounts of alcohol and ketone products. However, by careful control of the concentration of peroxide, the involvement of HaberWeiss chemistry can be minimized and oxidation by a metal-based oxidant can be manifested. To illustrate, the addition of 10 equiv of H2O2 to a 1 mM CH3CN solution of [Fe2O(TPA)2(H2O)2]4+ results in an immediate evolution of O2 due to the formation of hydroxyl radicals and attendant decomposition of H2O2. If the oxidant is instead syringe-pumped into the solution in the presence of cyclohexane over a 15 min period, 40% of the peroxide is converted to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in a 4:1 ratio.113b The high alcohol/ketone (A/K) ratio suggests that a radical chain mechanism is not involved, a notion further supported by the fact that the A/K ratio is unaffected by carrying the reaction out under Ar. More convincingly, the oxidation reactions are stereospecific (e.g., in the case of cis-1,2-dimethylcyclohexane).113c Indeed, this system represents the first example of stereospecific oxidation by a synthetic nonheme iron catalyst. These observations exclude the significant participation of hydroxy radicals in the mechanism. Furthermore, reactions carried out in the presence of H218O yield alcohol products that incorporate label from the solvent.113d This result provides strong evidence for the involvement of a high-valent ironoxo species that can undergo oxygen-atom exchange with water in the solvent prior to the formation of the product CO bond. The demonstration that a simple nonheme iron complex can catalyze stereospecific alkane hydroxylation via a nonradical mechanism akin to that proposed for methane monooxygenase brightens prospects for developing inexpensive biomimetic iron catalysts that can hydroxylate alkanes.
F. Novel Reactor Concepts
The successful development of new processes for the oxidative conversion of alkanes to olefins and oxygenates will likely require novel types of reactors as well as novel catalysts. Such reactors may utilize ultrashort contact times, cycling catalyst beds, catalyst recirculation between oxidizing and reducing conditions, and the integration of chemical reaction and separations. The potential for ultrashort contact time (1 ms) reactors has recently been demonstrated for the oxidative conversion of methane to synthesis gas (CO and H2) and for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene. For example, methane + O2 can be converted to synthesis gas with greater than 95% selectivity at 1273 K over Rh/Al2O3114 and ethane + O2 can be converted to ethene with over 85% selectivity at 1123 K over Pt/Al2O3.115 Oxidation of alkanes and olefins under anaerobic conditions utilizing only the oxygen derived from the catalyst itself has been demonstrated to result in higher selectivies to oxygenated products than can be achieved when hydrocarbon and oxygen are co-fed. For example, DuPont commercialized a process for converting butane to maleic anhydride using a recirculating fluidized bed (see Figure 11).116 The catalyst, a specially formulated vanadium pyrophosphate, is circulated from a riser reactor where it is contacted with butane to a fluidized regeneration reactor where it is then reoxidized. By this means, a maleic anhydride selectivity improvement of 1015% is achieved in an anerobic environment versus operation in a conventional fixed bed using air. In addition, since no oxygen is present with the hydrocarbon, much higher concentrations of maleic anhydride can be obtained, resulting in significantly lower downstream investments. The advantages of anaerobic oxidation have also been demonstrated on the pilot-plant scale for butane oxidation to butadiene and in the laboratory for isobutene dimerization to 2,5-dimethyl-1,5-hexadiene.117 Figure 11 Recirculating fluidized-bed process for butane oxidation to maleic anhydride commercialized by DuPont.
G. Alternative Processes
Creative thinking is required to develop new routes to large-scale commodity chemicals that reduce investment and give higher yields. An example is the production of methyl methacrylate (MMA). MMA is currently prepared from isobutylene via two high-temperature gas-phase oxidations followed by esterification (eq 25). These high-temperature conditions result in low yield and carbon dioxide production. Asahi Chemical is in the process of building a new plant118 based on the oxidative esterification of methacrolein directly to MMA. This new process operates in a slurry phase, under mild conditions, and eliminates one process step.119 Overall yield is much higher and investment is lower.
H. Alternative Oxidants
Although air is the cheapest source of oxygen, it provides the lowest selectivity in many reactions. Over the past 10 years, new catalysts have been developed for the use of oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide, alkylhydroperoxides, and nitrous oxide. Panov120 discovered that an Fe-doped ZSM-5 catalyst is very selective for the oxidation of benzene to phenol with N2O. At temperatures of 300500 C, selectivity to phenol is reportedly >99%. The process has been developed by Monsanto (Solutia)121 to take byproduct N2O from adipic acid manufacture and use it to hydroxylate benzene. The phenol is then hydrogenated to cyclohexanone and oxidized to adipic acid. This discovery represents a significant improvement in the economics for Nylon intermediates production. Chemists at Enichem found that a titanosilicalite catalyst is very effective for mediating the reaction between hydrogen peroxide and olefins, aromatics, and ketones.122 This catalysis has been extended to macroporous silicates and other metals.123 While the use of these oxidants provides cleaner processes and produces less carbon dioxide, the cost of N2O and H2O2 relative to air prevent wider applications beyond those used at present. Either environmental regulations or unique situations will be required to see these oxidants applied to large-volume chemical synthesis. Needless to say, the mechanisms of these processes are not well understood.
I. Research Challenges and Needs
A number of significant challenges must be overcome in order to develop catalysts for the selective, energy-efficient oxidation of alkanes to valuable chemical products without large quantities of unwanted byproducts such as CO2. These include the following: (1) identification of the reaction pathways leading to primary and secondary products and determination of the rate coefficients for each path; (2) in situ identification of reactive intermediates; (3) determination of the reactivity of different forms of oxygen present at the catalyst surface and their role in catalyzing desired and undesired oxidation processes; (4) identification of the elementary processes involved in hydrogen abstraction, carboncarbon bond cleavage, and oxygen insertion and the role of redox properties of metal cations in these processes; (5) establishment of the relative reactivities of carbonhydrogen bonds (1, 2, 3, HCH2X (X = OH, halide, etc.) toward soluble transition-metal complexes capable of electrophilic CH bond activation; (6) identification of the mechanisms and requirements for oxidation of Pt(II) alkyls; (7) developing approaches for rapid screening of potential electrophilic transition-metal complexes for selective, catalytic hydrocarbon oxidations under dioxygen; and (8) for new biomimetic catalysts, the development of robust ligands that can withstand oxidizing conditions of the reaction, the design of reaction conditions that maintain low oxidant concentrations to minimize undesirable side reactions such as hydroxy radical formation, and the development of catalysts that utilize O2 as oxidant.To meet these objectives will require the following: (1) synthesis of model catalytic systems containing well-defined sites; (2) in situ studies involving a variety of spectroscopic techniques, designed to determine the nature of the active sites, active phases, and reaction; (3) utilization of computational formalisms to determine the relationships between catalyst site composition and structure and the manner by which oxygen atoms associated with the site interact with hydrocarbons; (4) exploration of novel reactor concepts (e.g., ultrashort contact times, recirculating beds) to achieve higher product selectivities than those that can be obtained with conventional fixed-bed reactors; (5) while the desire is not to operate in an explosive regime and to control the possibility of any explosion, those working in the explosive regimes needed for rapid screening for selective, catalytic hydrocarbon oxidations under dioxygen will require special safety requirements, including high-pressure, blast-proof reactors. Collaborations between academic, industrial, and national laboratories would allow such studies, since most academic laboratories do not have experience working with these explosive mixtures and do not have the specialized equipment required.
IV. Utilization of Carbon Dioxide
A. Introduction
Carbon dioxide recovered from flue stacks or the atmosphere can be sequestered in oceans or spent gas and oil wells in an effort to mitigate atmospheric CO2 increases. Alternatively, recovered CO2 can be used for producing chemicals, fuels, and other useful products. There are a number of recent reviews and books on various aspects of CO2 utilization.124 The objective here is to provide a brief review of research progress in the field, to identify barriers to further progress, and to suggest possible avenues for future research.
There are several motivations for producing chemicals from CO2 whenever possible. (1) CO2 is a cheap, nontoxic feedstock that can frequently replace toxic chemicals such as phosgene or isocyanates. (2) CO2 is a totally renewable feedstock compared to oil or coal. (3) The production of chemicals from CO2 can lead to totally new materials such as polymers described below. (4) New routes to existing chemical intermediates and products could be more efficient and economical than current methods. (5) The production of chemicals from CO2 could have a small but significant positive impact on the global carbon balance.
As fossil fuels are depleted and/or global warming becomes severe, renewable energy (solar electric, wind, hydroelectric, geothermal, solar thermal, and biomass) and nuclear energy will become our primary energy sources. Of these future energy sources, only biomass produces fuels directly. Although biomass-derived fuels will doubtless contribute to meeting future fuel requirements, they will not be able to meet a large fraction of future fuel needs. The reduction of CO2 to methanol, methane, and other carbon-based fuels using renewable energy sources or nuclear energy would provide a future energy distribution system based on high-energy density liquid and gaseous fuels and without any net increase in atmospheric CO2. This could have a significant impact on future CO2 emissions, especially from the transportation sector.
Carbon dioxide is generally considered to be a green, or environmentally benign, solvent in that it is relatively nontoxic, is nonflammable, and is naturally abundant. As such, CO2 has been suggested as a sustainable replacement for organic solvents in a number of chemical processes.125 While CO2 is certainly not a panacea, it possesses a number of characteristics that suggest the use of CO2 could provide both environmental and economic benefit.
B. Current Status1. Chemicals
Approximately 110 MT (megatons) of CO2 are currently used for chemical synthesis annually.126a The chemicals synthesized include urea (1), salicylic acid (2), cyclic carbonates (3), and polycarbonates (4). The largest of these uses is urea production, which reached approximately 90 million metric tons per year in 1997.126b In addition to these commercial processes using CO2 (compounds 14 in Scheme 3), there are a number of reactions currently under study in various laboratories that hold promise (remaining reactions in Scheme 3). These reactions differ in the extent to which CO2 is reduced during the chemical transformation.126c Scheme 3. Chemical Transformations of CO2 The simplest reactions of CO2 are those in which it is simply inserted into an XH bond. Examples are the insertion of CO2 into organic amines to afford carbamic acids which may be converted into organic carbamates.127,128 More recent examples include the insertion of CO2 in PN bonds of P(NR2)3 compounds to form P(NR2)(OCONR2)2 compounds and the reaction of ammonium carbamates (derived from CO2) with alkyl halides in the presence of crown ethers to form useful urethane intermediates (5).128 This is an example of using CO2 to replace phosgene, a highly toxic intermediate in chemical synthesis.129 Reactions are known in which CO2 undergoes insertion into SnC bonds of allyl tin compounds to form carboxylated allyl derivatives (6)130 and which are catalyzed by Pd complexes; these are shown in Scheme 4. Another interesting reaction is the insertion of CO2 into alkanes such as methane to form acetic acid (7).131 Although the turnover numbers for this catalytic process are low, the simultaneous activation of a CH bond and CO2 insertion is intriguing. The thermodynamics of this reaction are marginal; however, adjusting the reaction conditions and coupling this reaction with energetically favorable product processes could improve conversion efficiencies. Carbonates, (RO)2CO (8), can also be prepared by inserting CO2 into OH bonds followed by dehydration or by oxidative carboxylation of olefins.132 This synthetic approach has the possibility of providing a new route to compounds that have very large potential markets.
Scheme 4. Proposed Mechanism for the Pd-Catalyzed Coupling of CO2 and Allyl Tin Compounds Related reactions in which CO2 is incorporated into product molecules without reduction have been used in the synthesis of polymers. Initial work in this area was performed by the groups of Inoue133 and Kuran.134 In recent years, a number of new catalysts have been developed for copolymerization of CO2 and oxiranes to form polycarbonates (4);135 an example is shown in Scheme 5. These studies have increased the productivity of this reaction by 102 times and have also expanded the range of applicable monomers (oxiranes). Another potentially interesting new class of polymers, polypyrones (9, Scheme 3), has been prepared from diacetylenes and CO2 in the presence of Ni catalysts; the suggested pathway is shown in Scheme 6.136 A related reaction is the telomerization of butadiene and CO2 to produce lactones (10), which can be important chemical intermediates.137 Polyurethanes (11) have also been prepared by the reactions of dicarbamate ions formed by insertion of CO2 into diamines, followed by Pd-catalyzed coupling to 1,4-dichloro-2-butene.138 Scheme 5. Zinc-Catalyzed Copolymerization of CO2 with Oxiranes Scheme 6. Proposed Mechanism for the Nickel-Catalyzed Coupling of CO2 and Acetylenes Reductive carboxylations in which the CO2 unit is incorporated into the product are also known. In the case of alkynes and olefins, electrochemical reductive carboxylations result in effective addition of the formic acid CH bond to CC double or triple bonds. For example, building on the earlier stoichiometric results of Hoberg,139 Dunach and co-workers140 used Ni bipyridine complexes and sacrificial Mg anodes to reductively couple acetylene and CO2 to form propenic acid (12). Similarly, Sylvestri reported that the reductive coupling of CO2 with styrene (13) is catalyzed by benzonitrile.141 Bromoarenes can also be reductively carboxylated to form the corresponding carboxylic acid (14) using Ni diphosphine catalysts.142 More recently, the sequential reductive coupling of two molecules of CO2 to butadiene to form 3-hexen-1,6-dioic acid has been reported (15).143 This approach provides a new route to a Nylon precursor. Another important monomer, ethylene (16), can be prepared by electrochemical reduction of CO2 in aqueous solutions with current efficiencies as high as 48%.144 The production of this monomer by this remarkable 12-electron reduction offers a potential route to polyethylene from CO2. The preceding results clearly indicate that it may be possible to produce a large variety of polymers in the future using materials derived from CO2. Under oxidative conditions, CO2 may react with olefins to afford cyclic carbonates that find wide industrial applications.132,145 Heterogeneous catalysts are currently more promising than homogeneous ones in these transformations. Another potentially useful reaction of CO2 is the dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons. Examples are the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and propane over metal oxides to form styrene (17) and propene, respectively.146,147 In these reactions, no part of the CO2 molecule is incorporated into the organic product, rather the oxygen of CO2 serves to remove two H atoms of the hydrocarbon. This reaction is at the opposite extreme of the simple insertion reactions discussed above.
C. Fuels
Unlike chemicals that derive value from their intrinsic chemical and physical properties, the value of fuels is in their energy content and the ease with which they are stored and transported. Currently no fuels are currently made by the reduction of CO2. This is because the electricity and hydrogen produced today are largely derived from fossil fuels which produce large amounts of CO2. Renewable energy sources and nuclear energy do not produce CO2, and therefore, production of fuels from these sources would provide fuels but not contribute to net CO2 emissions. Equations 2734 show CO2 reduction reactions in which energy in the form of electricity or hydrogen, derived from nuclear or renewable resources, is stored as either liquid or gaseous carbon-based fuels (ΔE and ΔG values are for 298 K). The high energy density of these fuels and their transportability makes them desirable; however, the energy required to produce these fuels must be minimized to ensure efficient use of renewable and nuclear energy sources. In general, entropy considerations suggest that these energy storage reactions are best carried out at low temperatures to reduce the free energy required. Both hydrogenation reactions and corresponding electrochemical reactions are shown in eqs 2734. In the electrochemical reactions, CO2 is reduced at the cathode and O2 is produced at the anode. These electrochemical reactions may be considered as the sum of the corresponding hydrogenation reactions and the water splitting reaction shown in eq 26.
ΔE(V) ΔG(kcal/mol)
H2OH2+0.5O2 1.23 56.7 (26)
CO2+H2HCOOH   5.1 (27)
CO2+H2OHCOOH+0.5O2 1.34 61.8 (28)
CO2+H2CO+H2O   4.6 (29)
CO2CO+0.5O2 1.33 61.3 (30)
CO2+3H2CH3OH+H2O   4.1 (31)
CO2+2H2OCH3OH+1.5O2 1.20 166 (32)
CO2+4H2CH4+2H2O   31.3 (33)
CO2+2H2OCH4+2O2 1.06 195 (34)
D. Hydrogenation Reactions
CO2 is currently used as an additive in the synthesis of methanol from CO and H2,148 and it is believed that reduced forms of CO2 are kinetically important intermediates in this process.149 Recently, efficient heterogeneous catalysts have been developed for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol, and pilot-scale plants based on this technology have been demonstrated.150 However, the thermodynamics for methanol production from H2 and CO2 are not as favorable as that for production of methanol from H2 and CO. For example, at 200 C the equilibrium yield of methanol from CO2 is slightly less than 40% while the yield from CO is greater than 80%.151 The reduction of CO2 can be rendered more favorable by the use of hybrid catalysts that dehydrate methanol to form dimethyl ether.152 Other copper-based catalysts have also been used for methanol synthesis. Fisher and Bell153 studied Cu/ZrO2/SiO2 catalysts by in-situ infrared spectroscopy and suggested the pathway shown in Scheme 7 for the route to methanol. Ethanol has also been produced by the hydrogenation of CO2.154 This fuel is attractive because it has a somewhat higher energy density than methanol and it is not as toxic. However, the selectivity for ethanol production is generally low (<40%). The hydrogenation of CO2 to methane and higher hydrocarbons is also known.155 For C2 and higher hydrocarbons, hybrid catalysts such as CuZnOCr2O3 and HY zeolite are generally used.Scheme 7. Proposed Mechanism for the Heterogeneous Catalytic Hydrogenation of CO2 to Methanol Pioneering work has been carried out by Noyori et al.124,156 on the catalytic synthesis of formic acid derivatives by CO2 hydrogenation, together with other substrates, in supercritical CO2. In part because of the high solubility of H2 in scCO2, an economical synthesis of dimethylformamide is achieved. The process is superior to conventional methods because of its high efficiency (TON = 4.2 × 105, where TON = moles of product per mole of catalyst) and high selectivity; the catalyst precursor is (Me3P)4RuCl2, and the operating temperature is 100 C.Homogeneous catalysts are also known that mediate the rapid hydrogenation of CO2 to formate.157 Because this reaction is not thermodynamically favored, amines and supercritical CO2 have been used to drive this reaction. Under the appropriate conditions, very high turnover numbers and rates can be achieved. For example, Leitner et al. examined complexes of the general type [R2P(X)PR2]Rh(hfacac) (X = bridging group; hfacac = 1,3-bis(trifluoromethyl)-acetonylacetonate).158 All of the compounds are active catalysts for formic acid production from H2 and CO2, but the most effective has X = (CH2)4 and R = cyclohexyl and exhibits a turnover frequency of 1335 h-1 at 25 C and 40 atm of 1:1 H2:CO2. The selectivity to formic acid is nearly 100%; the suggested pathway is indicated in Scheme 8.Scheme 8. Proposed Mechanism for the Rhodium-Catalyzed Hydrogenation of CO2 to Formic Acid
E. Electrochemical Reduction of CO2
Carbon dioxide reduction at a number of metal electrodes has been investigated,159 and Cu electrodes have been found to catalyze CO2 reduction to methane in bicarbonate solutions with current efficiencies as high as 65%.160 Although overpotentials are large (1.5 V), this is a remarkable transformation in which eight electrons are transferred to CO2 with cleavage of two CO bonds and formation of four CH bonds. Cu electrodes have been studied extensively to gain insight into the mechanism, which is thought to involve coordinated CO as an intermediate, and to overcome poisoning of the electrode under catalytic conditions.161 Under slightly different conditions, CO2 can also be reduced to ethylene at Cu electrodes as discussed above. Copper oxides on gas diffusion electrodes at large negative potentials have also been reported to reduce CO2 to ethanol.162 Homogeneous electrocatalysts typically catalyze CO2 reduction by two electrons to either formate or CO together with H2 formation. However, for some catalysts, CO2 reduction occurs with current efficiencies close to 100%, even in acidic solutions. This indicates high selectivity for CO2 reduction over the more thermodynamically favored reduction of protons to H2. For example, the reduction of CO2 to CO by nickel cyclam catalysts occurs with nearly 100% current efficiency in water at pH 4.1,163 and CO2 is reduced to CO in 0.02 M HBF4 in dimethylformamide solutions with current efficiencies greater than 95%.164 In addition, some of these catalysts operate at low overpotentials so that the conversion of electrical to chemical energy is highly efficient. The selectivity in these cases appears to arise from the preferential reaction of 17-electron intermediates with CO2 rather than protons.
This selectivity of reduced forms of the catalyst for H+ versus CO2 also appears to determine the nature of the CO2 reduction product observed. If the reduced form of the catalysts reacts with CO2 to form a MCO2 complex, protonation yields a metallocarboxylic acid; further reaction can then produce CO by CO bond cleavage to form hydroxide or water. Thus, reaction of a reduced form of the catalyst with CO2, as opposed to protons, leads to CO formation. If the reduced form of the catalyst reacts with protons to form a hydride complex, subsequent reaction of the hydride with CO2 leads to formate production; these two possibilities are illustrated in Scheme 9. An interesting example of such selectivity is CO2 electrochemical reduction catalyzed by polymeric films based on [Ru(NN)(CO)2]n (NN = polypyridine ligand) in aqueous media. Deronzier and Ziessel et al. found that bipyridyl ligands with electron-withdrawing groups in the 4,4 positions gave catalysts which are highly selective for formate at pH > 5 while those derived from the unsubstituted 2,2-bipyridine or the 4,4-dimethyl analogue primarily give CO at pH > 7.165 Formate was thought to arise from an intermediate metal hydride, whereas CO was thought to arise from a metallocarboxylic acid generated by carbonation of an intermediate anion followed by protonation; the suggested pathway is shown in Scheme 10.
Scheme 9. Possible Pathways for the Competing Interaction of Low-Valent Catalysts with Protons or CO2 Scheme 10. Ligand-Dependent Pathways for the Catalytic Reduction of CO2 It is unusual for homogeneous catalysts to form reduction products that require more than two electrons. However, Tanaka and co-workers reported the formation of glycolate (HOCH2COO-), glyoxylate (OCHCOO-), formic acid, formaldehyde, and methanol as CO2 reduction products using [Ru(tpy)(bpy)(CO)]2+ complexes as electrocatalysts (bpy = 2,2-bipyridine, and tpy = 2,2:6,2-terpyridine).166 Although turnover numbers were not given for these more highly reduced species, their formation raises the exciting possibility that a single-site catalyst can result in multielectron reductions of CO2 and even CC bond formation. Tanaka167 and Gibson168 recently succeeded in isolating key Ru C1 compounds with polypyridine ligands that are models for catalytic intermediates. Gibson et al.169 also isolated Re C1 complexes with polypyridine ligands. The importance of photochemistry in reactions of some of the Re and Ru complexes has been demonstrated,168,169 as illustrated in Schemes 11 and 12. The formation of formaldehyde has also been reported in electrochemical CO2 reduction using transition-metal terpyridine complexes polymerized on glassy carbon electrodes.170 The relatively mild conditions and low overpotentials required for some of the homogeneous catalysts make them attractive for future studies; however, a number of barriers must be overcome before useful catalysts are available for fuel production.
Scheme 11. Photochemical Transformations of Re-Bound C1 Fragments Scheme 12. Photochemical Transformations of Ru-Bound C1 Fragments
F. Photochemical Reduction of CO2.
Many of the reactions described above rely on energy input either in the form of reactive bonds (alkenes, alkynes, etc.), hydrogen, or electricity. Photochemical systems, the main features of which are depicted in Scheme 13, have been studied in an effort to develop systems capable of directly reducing CO2 to fuels or chemicals using solar energy. Transition-metal complexes have been used as both catalysts and solar energy converters, since they can absorb a significant portion of the solar spectrum, have long-lived excited states, are able to promote the activation of small molecules, and are robust. Carbon dioxide utilization by artificial photoconversion presents a challenging alternative to thermal hydrogenation reactions which require H2.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 