<quotes>

[1] "X-ray diffraction (XRD) was employed for investigating the crystalline phases formed in the calcined catalysts. Fig. 1 illustrates the diffractograms obtained for all the samples plus that of NiO and NiNbO used as reference. In most NiMeO mixed oxides, XRD analysis exhibits only diffraction lines corresponding to a crystal- line NiO-like phase. In the NiNbO sample, the appearance of an additional broad band centered at 2h 27 is apparent. This dif- fraction has been attributed to an amorphous niobium-rich phase [14,22]. In NiTiO, minor amounts of free TiO2 anatase are also formed, evidenced by the diffractions at 2h 27, 48 and 54, while for NiTaO, very poor crystallization is generally observed with diffraction lines corresponding to NiO and NiTa2O6 at 2h 26.7,35 and 53."
[2] "UVvis spectroscopy was applied in order to study the coordi- nation of the nickel species in the NiMeO mixed metal oxides. The UVvis spectra are presented in Fig. 3. It should be mentioned that high absorbance was recorded over the whole measured wavelength range because of the dark (gray) color of the samples,indicating the presence of nickel in a non-stoichiometric form and resulting in weak absorbance bands."
[3] "Temperature-programmed reduction in H2 was performed in order to study the reduction characteristics of the as synthesized nickel-based mixed oxide catalysts. The TPR profiles, shown in Fig. 4, were acquired by continuously following the H2 signal with a quadrupole mass spectrometer, while linearly increasing temper- ature."
[4] "Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange measurements portray furthermore that not only the quantity but also the lability of the oxygen species reduces with increasing dopant valence. These electrophilic oxygen species catalyze the total oxidation reactions of ethane to COx, and thus their reduction/elimination favors the selective oxidation to ethylene."
[5] "The oxygen balance in all experiments amounted to 955% and hence, the amount of oxygen consumed for any irreversible adsorption or desorption was not significant."
[6] "The introduction of dopants in the NiO structure modifies, as in the case of the O2-TPD experiments, both the quantity and mobility of the exchanged oxygen species."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to investigate the crystalline phases formed in the calcined catalysts. UV-Vis spectroscopy was applied to study the coordination of the nickel species in the NiMeO mixed metal oxides. Temperature-programmed reduction in H2 was performed to study the reduction characteristics of the synthesized nickel-based mixed oxide catalysts. Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange measurements showed that the quantity and lability of the oxygen species reduce with increasing dopant valence. The oxygen balance in all experiments was 95-99.5%, indicating that the amount of oxygen consumed for any irreversible adsorption or desorption was not significant. The introduction of dopants in the NiO structure modifies both the quantity and mobility of the exchanged oxygen species.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 使用X射线衍射（XRD）来研究煅烧催化剂中形成的晶相。应用UV-Vis光谱学来研究NiMeO混合金属氧化物中镍物种的配位。在氢气中进行温度程序还原，以研究合成的镍基混合氧化物催化剂的还原特性。温度程序同位素氧交换测量显示，随着掺杂剂价态的增加，氧物种的数量和活性都会减少。所有实验中的氧平衡为95-99.5%，表明任何不可逆吸附或解吸消耗的氧量并不显著。在NiO结构中引入掺杂剂会改变交换氧物种的数量和流动性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
