<quotes>

[1] "X-ray diffraction (XRD) was employed for investigating the crystalline phases formed in the calcined catalysts. Fig. 1 illustrates the diffractograms obtained for all the samples plus that of NiO and NiNbO used as reference. In most NiMeO mixed oxides, XRD analysis exhibits only diffraction lines corresponding to a crystal- line NiO-like phase. In the NiNbO sample, the appearance of an additional broad band centered at 2h 27 is apparent. This dif- fraction has been attributed to an amorphous niobium-rich phase [14,22]. In NiTiO, minor amounts of free TiO2 anatase are also formed, evidenced by the diffractions at 2h 27, 48 and 54, while for NiTaO, very poor crystallization is generally observed with diffraction lines corresponding to NiO and NiTa2O6 at 2h 26.7,35 and 53."
[2] "UVvis spectroscopy was applied in order to study the coordi- nation of the nickel species in the NiMeO mixed metal oxides. The UVvis spectra are presented in Fig. 3. It should be mentioned that high absorbance was recorded over the whole measured wavelength range because of the dark (gray) color of the samples,indicating the presence of nickel in a non-stoichiometric form and resulting in weak absorbance bands. Moreover, the NiLiO sample did not give rise to any bands due to its extremely dark color and is Table 1 Nomenclature and physicochemical characteristics of the catalysts."
[3] "Temperature-programmed reduction in H2 was performed in order to study the reduction characteristics of the as synthesized nickel-based mixed oxide catalysts. The TPR profiles, shown in Fig. 4, were acquired by continuously following the H2 signal with a quadrupole mass spectrometer, while linearly increasing temper- ature."
[4] "Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange measurements portray furthermore that not only the quantity but also the lability of the oxygen species reduces with increasing dopant valence. These electrophilic oxygen species catalyze the total oxidation reactions of ethane to COx, and thus their reduction/elimination favors the selective oxidation to ethylene."
[5] "The oxygen desorption properties of selected catalysts were studied by O2-TPD measurements. The catalyst sample (200 mg) was pretreated in a flow of pure oxygen at 450 C for 1 h and cooled to room temperature under the oxygen flow. The system was subsequently flushed with helium for 1 h, and the tempera- ture was raised to 850 C at a heating rate of 15 C/min in He (50 cm3/min). The reactor exit was monitored online by a quadru- pole mass analyzer (Omnistar, Balzers), and the desorbed oxygen was detected by following the 32 (m/z) fragment."
[6] "Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange experi- ments (TPIE) were also performed in the earlier mentioned appara- tus. Before each experiment, the catalyst (25 mg) was pretreated in 10% 16O2/He flow at 450 C for 1 h, followed by flushing in He for 1 h and subsequent cooling to room temperature. The catalyst sample (250 mg) was subjected to 2% 18O2 (Cambridge Isotope Lab- oratories; 95% atom enrichment)/He flow (40 cm3/min), and the temperature was raised from room temperature to 650 C at a heating rate of 15 C/min. The system was maintained isothermally at 650 C for 30 min under the reactant mixture. The reactor exit was connected by a heated inlet capillary system to a quadrupole mass analyzer (Omnistar, Balzer) for the online monitoring of the 68 exit gas composition. The concentration profiles were obtained by registering the following (m/z) fragments: Ye = 4, Y2J = 18, N2 = 28, 16O2 = 32, 16O18O = 34 and 18O2=36."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to investigate the crystalline phases formed in the calcined catalysts. UVvis spectroscopy was applied to study the coordination of the nickel species in the NiMeO mixed metal oxides. Temperature-programmed reduction in H2 was performed to study the reduction characteristics of the synthesized nickel-based mixed oxide catalysts. Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange measurements showed that not only the quantity but also the lability of the oxygen species reduces with increasing dopant valence. Oxygen desorption properties of selected catalysts were studied by O2-TPD measurements. Temperature-programmed isotopic oxygen exchange experiments (TPIE) were also performed.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.使用X射线衍射(XRD)研究煅烧催化剂中形成的晶相。应用UVvis光谱学研究NiMeO混合金属氧化物中镍物种的配位。在氢气中进行温度程序还原,以研究合成的镍基混合氧化物催化剂的还原特性。温度程序同位素氧交换测量表明,随着掺杂剂价态的增加,不仅氧物种的数量减少,其活性也降低。通过O2-TPD测量研究了选定催化剂的氧脱附性质。还进行了温度程序同位素氧交换实验(TPIE)。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
