<quotes>
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "The chemisorption results indicated that the platinum was dispersed to a much higher degree on alumina than on silica-alumina."
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "For the platinum-on-alumina catalyst, the adsorption of hydrogen on platinum at moderately high surface coverage (70%) is estimated to be exothermic to the extent of 7-8 kcal/mole."
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "In the case of the platinum-on-alumina catalyst employed in the present study, the erystallite size of the platinum is less than 10 A. For the platinum-on-silica-alumina catalyst, the platinum erystallite size is 85 A."
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "The rates of dehydrogenation were determined at low conversion levels (< 10%), and were calculated as the product of the quantity, F/W, and the fractional conversion, x, where F represents the moles of cyclohexane charged per hour and W is the weight of catalyst in grams. The activity of the platinum-on-alumina catalyst was about six times as high as that of the platinum on silica-alumina."
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "The results of the present investigation indicate that the support did not exert any specific effect on the intrinsic catalytic properties of the platinum, but instead simply affected the degree of platinum dispersion."
J. A. CUSUMANO, G. W. DEMBINSKI, AND J. H. SINFELT. (1966). "Perhaps this is due to the much lower concentration of metal employed in the case of platinum (2% vs. 10%)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The chemisorption results showed that platinum was dispersed to a much higher degree on alumina compared to silica-alumina. Hydrogen adsorption on platinum at moderate high surface coverage on alumina catalysts was found to be exothermic, releasing energy equivalent to 7-8 kcal/mole. The platinum crystal size on alumina was significantly smaller (less than 10 Å) compared to silica-alumina (85 Å). The platinum-on-alumina catalyst demonstrated a higher activity for cyclohexane dehydrogenation, approximately six times higher than the catalyst on silica-alumina. These findings suggest that the support influenced the degree of platinum dispersion, affecting catalytic activity, but did not alter the intrinsic catalytic properties of the platinum. The difference in dispersion might be attributed to the lower concentration of metal used in the platinum case (2% vs. 10%).
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
化学吸附结果表明，铂在氧化铝上的分散度远高于二氧化硅-氧化铝。在铂催化剂上氢吸附达到中等高表面覆盖度时，释放的能量相当于每摩尔分子7-8 kcal。铂在氧化铝上的晶粒尺寸显著较小（小于10 Å），而二氧化硅-氧化铝上的晶粒尺寸为85 Å。铂-氧化铝催化剂在环己烷脱氢反应中的活性明显更高，大约是二氧化硅-氧化铝催化剂的六倍。这些发现表明，支持物影响了铂的分散度，从而影响了催化活性，但没有改变铂本身的内在催化性质。这种差异可能归因于铂所用金属浓度较低（2% vs. 10%）。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
