<quotes>
Silicalite-2, a silica analogue of the aluminosilicate zeolite ZSM-11, is so similar to that of the silica-rich aluminosilicate zeolite ZSM-5 that we suggest it should be regarded as the aluminium-free end member of this zeolite series.
The silicalite-1, ZSM-5, ZSM-11, and by inference, silicalite-2 frameworks contain 4-, 5-, and 6-membered rings linked to form a system of channels with 10-membered ring openings.
In silicalite-1 and ZSM-5 the channels are a combination of linear and zig-zag, while in ZSM-11 and silicalite-2 all the channels are linear.
The lack of substitutional aluminium results in silicalites having no significant catalytic or cation exchange properties compared with the zeolites.
However, silicalites are unusual in that they are the only known hydrophobic forms of silica and are capable of absorbing organic molecules up to 6 Å kinetic diameter.
Thermogravimetric studies of silicalites-1 and -2 containing absorbed long straight-chain hydrocarbon compounds (C4C16) show that degassing occurs in two stages, which we consider to be due to self-blocking of the channels at intersection points.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Silicalite-2, a silica analogue of ZSM-11, shares similarities with ZSM-5, suggesting it as an aluminium-free end member of the zeolite series. Its framework consists of 4-, 5-, and 6-membered rings forming channels with 10-membered ring openings. Unlike ZSM-11 and ZSM-5, silicalite-2 features exclusively linear channels. Due to the absence of aluminum, silicalites exhibit no significant catalytic or cation exchange properties. Notably, they are hydrophobic and capable of absorbing organic molecules up to 6 Å kinetic diameter. Thermogravimetric analysis indicates two stages of degassing in silicalites-1 and -2 containing long straight-chain hydrocarbon compounds, attributed to channel self-blocking at intersection points.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
硅酸盐-2，一种硅酸盐类沸石ZSM-11的类似物，与ZSM-5有相似性，因此被视作该沸石系列中的铝自由端元成员。其框架由4-、5-和6-成员环组成，形成具有10-成员环开口的通道。与ZSM-11和ZSM-5不同的是，硅酸盐-2具有唯一的直线通道。由于缺乏铝，硅酸盐没有显著的催化或阳离子交换性质。值得注意的是，它们是已知的唯一疏水性硅酸盐，并且能够吸收直径至6 Å的有机分子。热重分析显示，在含长直链烃化合物的硅酸盐-1和-2中，退气过程分为两个阶段，我们将其归因于通道在交点处的自我堵塞。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
