<quotes>

[1] "The effect of high-valence dopants on the chemistry of the host oxide is more complex than that of LVDs because it depends on whether the host is reducible or not."
[2] "Pala et al. (271) examined the effect of all substitutional dopants on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation on the surface of ZnO. They showed that all HVDs increased the energy needed for removing a surface oxygen atom located near the dopant."
[3] "A limited number of calculations on other systems suggest that the activation of the oxygen adsorbed on an HVD1 is likely to be general."
[4] "The situation is different in the limiting case of HVD2. An example is provided by Ta-doped La2O3(001) exposed to oxygen. The O2 molecule dissociates: one atom binds to Ta, and the other binds to a surface oxygen atom forming a sort of O2 molecule."
[5] "Very few calculations have examined this kind of system. They allow us to make some guesses and extrapolations, but they need to be reinforced (or modified) by further work."
[6] "Quite a bit of work has been devoted to the situation when the dopant and the cation being substituted have the same valence. Calculations have been performed to study the properties of TiO2 doped with Ce, (361) Zr, (361) and Pt (141) and of CeO2 doped with Zr, (229, 235, 255, 258, 334, 361, 362) or with Ti, (362) or Hf, (362) or Pd, (229) or Pt, (258) or Si, Ge, Sn, and Pb. (363)"
[7] "All of these calculations show that the dopant affects favorably the properties of the host oxide."
[8] "However, we were unable to formulate any simple rules regarding the SVDs in catalysis other than to say that they should be tried, especially if one tunes the properties of an oxide that is already an efficient catalyst."
[9] "Because we define the valence of a dopant by examining the stoichiometry of its stable oxides, we cannot assign a unique valence to dopants that have several stable oxides."
[10] "Not much is known about the general behavior of such systems."
[11] "Another interesting example of flexible-valence dopant is provided by Cr-doped ceria. Experiments in Hegdes group (381, 382) indicated that this doped oxide contains Ce3+ and Ce4+ as well as Cr4+ and Cr6+."
[12] "The examples presented here suggest that it may be difficult to find simple rules for the effects of flexible-valence dopants, especially if the host oxide is a reducible. More computational and experimental work is needed for clarifying the behavior of these systems."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.High-valence dopants (HVDs) have a more complex effect on the chemistry of the host oxide than low-valence dopants (LVDs), as their impact depends on whether the host oxide is reducible or not. In irreducible oxides, HVDs can hinder oxidation by the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism by increasing the energy needed for removing a surface oxygen atom near the dopant. In reducible oxides, HVDs can donate their excess electrons to reduce cations in the host oxide. The behavior of HVDs in reducible oxides is less studied and requires further investigation.
2.Same-valence dopants (SVDs) generally improve the properties of the host oxide, as evidenced by numerous calculations and experiments. However, formulating simple rules for their behavior in catalysis is challenging, and their effects should be explored, especially when tuning the properties of an already efficient catalyst.
3.Flexible-valence dopants (FVDs), which have several stable oxides and can take various valences, present additional complexity. Cr-doped ceria, for example, contains multiple oxidation states of cerium and chromium, and its behavior is peculiar. General rules for the effects of FVDs are difficult to establish, particularly in reducible host oxides, and more computational and experimental work is needed to clarify their behavior.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.高价掺杂剂（HVDs）对宿主氧化物化学的影响比低价掺杂剂（LVDs）更复杂，因为其影响取决于宿主氧化物是否可还原。在不可还原的氧化物中，HVDs可以通过增加去除靠近掺杂剂的表面氧原子所需的能量来阻碍Mars-van Krevelen机制的氧化。在可还原的氧化物中，HVDs可以将其过剩的电子捐赠给宿主氧化物中的阳离子进行还原。HVDs在可还原氧化物中的行为研究较少，需要进一步研究。
2.同价掺杂剂（SVDs）通常可以改善宿主氧化物的性能，这一点在大量计算和实验中得到了证实。然而，为它们在催化中的行为制定简单规则具有挑战性，应探索其效果，特别是在调整已经高效催化剂的性能时。
3.可变价掺杂剂（FVDs），具有多种稳定氧化物，可以采取各种价态，增加了复杂性。例如，Cr掺杂的铈酸盐含有铈和铬的多种氧化态，其行为异常。为FVDs的影响制定一般规则是困难的，特别是在可还原的宿主氧化物中，需要更多的计算和实验工作来阐明它们的行为。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
