<quotes>

[1] "The effect of high-valence dopants on the chemistry of the host oxide is more complex than that of LVDs because it depends on whether the host is reducible or not."
[2] "Pala et al. (271) examined the effect of all substitutional dopants on the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation on the surface of ZnO. They showed that all HVDs increased the energy needed for removing a surface oxygen atom located near the dopant."
[3] "A limited number of calculations on other systems suggest that the activation of the oxygen adsorbed on an HVD1 is likely to be general."
[4] "The situation is different in the limiting case of HVD2. An example is provided by Ta-doped La2O3(001) exposed to oxygen. The O2 molecule dissociates: one atom binds to Ta, and the other binds to a surface oxygen atom forming a sort of O2 molecule."
[5] "Very few calculations have examined this kind of system. They allow us to make some guesses and extrapolations, but they need to be reinforced (or modified) by further work."
[6] "Quite a bit of work has been devoted to the situation when the dopant and the cation being substituted have the same valence. Calculations have been performed to study the properties of TiO2 doped with Ce, (361) Zr, (361) and Pt (141) and of CeO2 doped with Zr, (229, 235, 255, 258, 334, 361, 362) or with Ti, (362) or Hf, (362) or Pd, (229) or Pt, (258) or Si, Ge, Sn, and Pb. (363)"
[7] "All of these calculations show that the dopant affects favorably the properties of the host oxide."
[8] "However, we were unable to formulate any simple rules regarding the SVDs in catalysis other than to say that they should be tried, especially if one tunes the properties of an oxide that is already an efficient catalyst."
[9] "Because we define the valence of a dopant by examining the stoichiometry of its stable oxides, we cannot assign a unique valence to dopants that have several stable oxides."
[10] "Not much is known about the general behavior of such systems."
[11] "Another interesting example of flexible-valence dopant is provided by Cr-doped ceria. Experiments in Hegdes group (381, 382) indicated that this doped oxide contains Ce3+ and Ce4+ as well as Cr4+ and Cr6+."
[12] "The examples presented here suggest that it may be difficult to find simple rules for the effects of flexible-valence dopants, especially if the host oxide is a reducible. More computational and experimental work is needed for clarifying the behavior of these systems."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.High-valence dopants (HVDs) have a more complex effect on the chemistry of the host oxide than low-valence dopants (LVDs), as their impact depends on whether the host oxide is reducible or not. In irreducible oxides, HVDs can hinder oxidation by increasing the energy needed for oxygen-vacancy formation. In reducible oxides, HVDs can donate electrons to reduce cations in the host oxide, affecting its chemistry differently. The behavior of HVDs in reducible oxides is less studied and requires further investigation.
2.Same-valence dopants (SVDs) generally improve the catalytic properties of host oxides, as evidenced by computational studies on various systems. However, formulating simple rules for their effects in catalysis is challenging, and their use is recommended for tuning the properties of already efficient catalysts.
3.Flexible-valence dopants (FVDs), which have several stable oxides and can take on various valences, pose additional challenges in predicting their effects on catalytic properties. Cr-doped ceria, for example, contains multiple oxidation states of both cerium and chromium, indicating complex behavior. More computational and experimental work is needed to clarify the behavior of FVDs, particularly in reducible host oxides.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.高价掺杂剂（HVDs）对宿主氧化物化学的影响比低价掺杂剂（LVDs）更复杂，因为其影响取决于宿主氧化物是否可还原。在不可还原的氧化物中，HVDs可以通过增加形成氧空位所需的能量来阻碍氧化。在可还原的氧化物中，HVDs可以捐赠电子来还原宿主氧化物中的阳离子，从而以不同的方式影响其化学性质。HVDs在可还原氧化物中的行为研究较少，需要进一步研究。
2.同价掺杂剂（SVDs）通常可以改善宿主氧化物的催化性能，如各种系统计算研究所示。然而，制定关于它们在催化作用中效果的简单规则具有挑战性，建议在调整已经高效催化剂的性质时使用它们。
3.可变价掺杂剂（FVDs），具有多个稳定的氧化物，可以采取各种价态，为预测其对催化性能的影响带来了额外的挑战。例如，Cr掺杂的铈酸盐含有铈和铬的多种氧化态，表明了复杂的行为。需要更多的计算和实验工作来澄清FVDs的行为，特别是在可还原的宿主氧化物中。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
