Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site isolation, highlighting its importance in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, or Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity, preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity, involving methyl radical formation. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivities, while higher areas lead to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, enhances process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The nature of the metal ion and its environment, including the coordination structure and oxidation state, determine the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of oxygen ions, which in turn affect the activation of C-H bonds. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts exhibit different properties based on the support's isoelectric point, affecting the adsorption of monomeric or polymeric anions. Low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than larger species or bulk oxides. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, involving lattice oxygen mobility and the wetting effect, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking forming propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites that inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to these ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is crucial for enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity. Alkyl radical formation is the initial step, with subsequent pathways varying, yielding higher C2H4 from OXD than methane oxidative coupling due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields, affecting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, enhances ODH process efficiency. Site isolation improves selectivity by preventing secondary reactions that lead to undesired products, crucial for addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary combustion products. The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation, propene desorption, and OH recombination to form water, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In Cr(III)silica-catalyzed oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction are key steps. Site isolation of chromium enhances selectivity, critical for optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhancing activity and Cr maintaining high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing the need for process efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically prevents radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity and limiting reactive sites for intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "Exploring CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surfaces for dehydrogenation reveals high activation energy (220 kJ mol-1), making this mechanism unlikely. Comparing Cr(III)silica sites with varying oxygen bridges to the silica surface highlights the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, indirectly impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneity, are pivotal in propane ODH, enhancing process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity and reactivity in materials like bimetallic oxides. Supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, when used with site isolation, are critical for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review explores n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact activity and selectivity. The text analyzes the nature of active sites, detailed kinetic studies, and mechanisms, concluding with future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. The complexity arises from the number of possible pathways, each with several steps occurring on the adsorbed phase without desorbing. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, as the first step of the transformation of the alkane molecule corresponds to an oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out. Efficient catalysts provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation that clearly overcome the activation step.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through redox cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathway efficiency, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity impacts ODH and combustion rates, with activation energy differences increasing as acidity rises (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, complicating selective poisoning. Propene's reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors that of Mo oxides. Activation energies determine k3/k1 ratios, aligning with Lewis acid strength. Selective ODH necessitates intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenge of low yields in methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, significant for their vast reserves, pose challenges in activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, affecting industrial conversion. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is pivotal for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but also hindered their use in industrial processes. Direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity. CH bond cleavage is the first step in hydrocarbon transformation. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity. Catalyst reactivity influences the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, while dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by alkane nature, catalyst type, reaction conditions, and specific alkane features. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. The nature of alkane influences reactivity and catalyst choice. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. The coordination number of the active center affects the ODH reaction path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the formation of acid and/or basic centers depend on the support and additive basicity. The rate of olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption depends on the acid-base character of the catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites impact supported vanadium oxide catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Reduced vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, impacting catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction boosting propylene selectivity. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Binary dispersed structures can alter the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing performance. Site isolation is crucial for high selectivity, as in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites are essential for ethylene selectivity during ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density affecting ODH rates. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or oxidize to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, impacting electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, significant for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote [2], [3]). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 perform ODH but with low yields (Quote [4]), whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote [5]). CH bond activation is rate-determining (Quote [7]), with proposed mechanisms involving Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism. Selectivity, crucial for dehydrogenation over oxygenated product formation, correlates with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote [11]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity, crucial for preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Li/MgO catalyzes methane's ODH to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature, and low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, making Li/MgO a novel catalyst for ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion addressed through understanding mechanisms such as C-H bond activation. Site isolation stabilizes active sites, enhancing selectivity. Active site size and electronic properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported systems like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/anatase exhibit different catalytic properties based on the support and active site size. Monomeric species often lead to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, supported by in-situ FT-IR studies. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with variable Cu/Th ratios enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, with ethylene selectivity peaking at specific ratios. Increased copper content promotes ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites, hindering ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane conversion is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is associated with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxides catalyze C-H bond activation, achieving significant conversion and selectivity. Ethylene yields are limited by secondary reactions, with ethane pathways favoring ethylene production over methane's stable product route. Site isolation, as demonstrated by a Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions, enhances selectivity, achieving 77% ethylene selectivity at 75% ethane conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates reaction rates compared to methane.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties for intermediate MO bond strength enhances ODH efficiency and selectivity. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, which is critical for high conversion. This aligns with mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, addressing the challenges of achieving both high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism operates, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens facilitates propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination steps produce water, enhancing reaction efficiency. This mechanism tackles selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a three-step mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with efficiency influenced by chromium site structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, addressing a key challenge in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with high molybdenum content, are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, offering a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. This NiCo molybdate system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, showing potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Supported catalyst systems and site isolation limit side reactions, enhancing selectivity by controlling radical formation. Site isolation prevents radical interactions, improving selectivity and impacting active site distribution. Supported systems and site isolation are crucial for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis reveals CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is unlikely due to high activation energy, around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unviable dehydrogenation route. Site isolation plays a key role in selectivity, as evidenced by the comparison of different Cr(III)silica surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, as site isolation through methods like TMP enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, with well-defined iron sites, play a key role in selective oxidation, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms (Quote [1]). It discusses the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, surface basicity, and other factors on catalytic efficiency (Quote [2]). The review also explores active and selective sites, concluding with future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including the role of specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms collectively influence process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. The identity of the metal and the reducibility of the support significantly impact LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by cation identity, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, leading to decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with adsorption enthalpies playing a significant role. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered by the shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion are influenced by adsorption enthalpies and transition state species. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, consistent with observed trends in ODH rates and k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst significantly boosts C2 compound production under conventional conditions, achieving high yields.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being challenging to activate compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for the chemical industry. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered their industrial use. Direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is more difficult due to their high stability, which limits selectivity. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation. Catalyst affinity and reactivity are crucial, with the speed of surface intermediates' reaction influenced by the catalyst's reactivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing activation sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and high reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms such as C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, with reaction conditions like temperature and contact time affecting selectivity and activity. Vanadium-based catalysts, with their varying species, show different behaviors influenced by the support's nature and additives' basicity, crucial for optimized ODH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules, with redox behavior dependent on support type and composition. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees influenced by the support. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites affect supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Selective catalyst development in ODH depends on these factors. Supported metal oxides' catalytic behavior is contingent on the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, exhibit high olefin selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains a topic of discussion. Bulk vs. supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and elucidate support influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are ongoing research topics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including supported metal oxides with varying degrees of agglomeration, valence states, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, achieving optimal performance with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Selectivity to propylene increases with higher surface reduction. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures impacts the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be linked to work function values. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms (Quote 7, 9, 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation for process optimization (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide shows high selectivity, with added V, Cr, and Mo boosting activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium site selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, showcasing the Li/MgO system's novelty without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. The reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, presenting challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated metallic ion sites insufficient for the reaction's complexity. Two distinct active sites are necessary: one for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction. The size and nature of these sites, such as MoO3 and V2O5, significantly impact the catalytic properties, with monomeric species often exhibiting acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, allowing for the stabilization of specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. Structure sensitivity, reducibility, and reoxidability of the oxides are important parameters for catalytic reactions. The size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical, with low-size polymeric species often exhibiting better selectivity than larger species or bulk oxides. Oxidation catalysts must be considered dynamically under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and ethylene selectivity increase with copper concentration in thoria, peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface enhance activity, and substitutional sites improve propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions efficiently convert C2H6 to C2H4, with high selectivity. Alkyl radical formation is key, with C2H4 yields exceeding those from CH4 coupling due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. Secondary reactions limit yields, and the weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength dictating catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties enhances selectivity and conversion. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding undesired products, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, impacting selectivity and conversion. Site isolation plays a crucial role in optimization, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, particularly ethane, a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration is pivotal. Site isolation enhances selectivity, impacting process efficiency and optimization, as the mechanism's effectiveness is sensitive to the chromium's local structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdate offers an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals are pivotal for reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, limiting side reactions and enhancing selectivity. Site isolation prevents interactions between radicals, improving selectivity by managing active sites and restricting reactive sites for intermediates, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, CH activation occurs over Cr(III)silica surface sites, facing a high activation energy barrier. Different Cr(III)silica sites exhibit varying reactivities, with site isolation potentially influencing selectivity and conversion, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, are crucial for improved process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts, which is pivotal for optimizing propane ODH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review explores n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, analyzing catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions impacting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are examined, with insights into future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, where efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems are crucial for overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, emphasizing the importance of identifying a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with mechanisms suggesting the involvement of lattice oxygen and specific properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Electrical conductivity measurements reveal insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalyst properties, selectivity challenges, and proposed reaction mechanisms, highlighting the need for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a process involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by the activation of CH bonds on lattice oxygen atoms, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step (Quote 4). Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, can accept more electrons, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation (Quote 5). Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces (Quote 10). Quantum confinement effects, determined by domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. ODH turnover rates (per active metal atom) increase monotonically as LMCT energies decrease for all active oxides (Quote 20), leading to an exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies (Quote 24).", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity (V5+, Mo6+, W6+) dictates pathway efficiency, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing decreasing catalytic activities. Lewis acidity impacts activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation sites are shared between ODH and alkene combustion, affecting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to CH bond strength. Metal reducibility and active oxygen basicity are critical for catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields and sometimes requires N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, demonstrating progress in overcoming selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives the conversion of alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, due to vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Catalysts play a pivotal role in overcoming the low reactivity of lower alkanes, with direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates being an attractive alternative. The transformation of catalyst structure under reaction conditions significantly affects catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Activation of alkanes is harder due to their high stability, limiting selectivity. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for C-H bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is optimized by selecting appropriate catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, tailored to specific alkanes. Catalyst properties, reaction conditions, and alkane nature significantly impact ODH performance. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates are vital for high selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species, affecting olefin formation and desorption. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center also influence the ODH path. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal results.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility towards alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states (Cr5+, Cr3+, Cr2+) emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Chromium oxides anchor to the surface post-calcination, reacting with hydroxyl groups, with structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxides' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base properties, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH catalysis. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Selective catalysts in ODH depend on these factors. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but are influenced by support nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH is under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties relate to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH require further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts, sees supported metal oxides' performance tied to metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity is enhanced with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of reduced centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The use of N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Supported catalyst systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity over bulk metal oxides like V2O5 (Quote 4, 5, 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed mechanisms involving Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). Selectivity for dehydrogenation over oxygenated products correlates with site distance, emphasizing the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently produces ethene from ethane. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane to propylene conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity, a critical factor for high selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion improve up to 700°C, with lower surface areas favoring high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like MoO3 and V2O5, which exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and structure of their active sites. Monomeric species favor total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Active sites play a critical role in stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for optimizing ODH processes, as the size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene is facilitated by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts (Moro-oka and Ueda). Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures promote alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts favor surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and the number of such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' catalytic activity and selectivity are enhanced by varying Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The process involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production mainly from CH3 radical coupling. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions showed 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting catalysts' role in optimization. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are key, with MO bond strength and energy gap affecting reactivity. Optimizing these for intermediate strength enhances selectivity. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity further, addressing challenges in achieving high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids the redox cycle, forming water. Site isolation of active sites enhances selectivity, addressing a key challenge in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, a three-step mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration enhances ethene production. Site isolation improves selectivity, critical for process efficiency, as it depends on the local structure of chromium surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective in propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity and yields. Redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr) boost activity, especially Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and serve as an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals are pivotal for pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, limits side reactions and controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation specifically manages radical interactions, preventing undesired reactions by restricting reactive sites for intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is a potential dehydrogenation route, but high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes it unlikely. Site isolation, evident in Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying reactivities, is crucial for addressing selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing their efficiency. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, demonstrating the importance of site isolation in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems, kinetics, and mechanisms. It highlights unsupported and supported catalysts, detailing factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties that influence activity and selectivity. Active sites and reaction mechanisms are pivotal, guiding process optimization and future trends in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a significant challenge in catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of the oxidic phase and active oxygen species involved in catalytic reactions, which is crucial for process optimization. Efficient catalysts are those that provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge in heterogeneous catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity on VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 significantly influences pathways, with activation energies and reaction rates increasing from VOx to WOx. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, impacting ODH and combustion rates. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, affecting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to CH bond strength differences. Metal center reducibility and active lattice oxygen basicity determine catalytic activities, with VOx/ZrO2 showing the highest activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst enables the coupling of two gaseous ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields of C2H6 and C2H4 under conventional conditions, marking a significant advancement in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation, though challenging, is economically significant due to vast reserves, aiming for selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, affecting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 boosts ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts, alkane type, and reaction conditions, presents challenges in selectivity and conversion. Bulk metal oxides and supported systems vary in effectiveness, with acid-base properties and oxygen type impacting performance. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, affect selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Efficiency is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center affects the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. [Quote 5] highlights the influence of alkane nature on reactivity and catalyst choice. [Quote 12] emphasizes the role of chlorine ions in achieving high ethene yield. [Quote 14] discusses the impact of the coordination number on the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the influence of supports. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, are active in ODH, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives can influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5 in activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5, 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes through β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). Site isolation correlates with selectivity, addressing selectivity issues effectively (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, offers efficient alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, surpassing other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide, despite low propane conversion, exhibits high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, Mo additions. Site isolation, notably niobium's resistance to reduction, boosts selectivity in VNbO catalysts, as vanadium neighbors promote activity while niobium neighbors favor selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to an optimal point, while low surface areas favor C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation states, offers a novel approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The nature of the metal ion, its oxidation state, and environment significantly affect process efficiency. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size and electronic properties are critical for controlling selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Ethane conversion increases with higher copper content, potentially due to CuO crystallites that may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting their role in process efficiency. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with ethane's lower C-H bond strength accelerating reaction rates, impacting selectivity and conversion. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by controlling radical coupling and oxidation on the catalyst surface, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, boosts selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids the redox cycle, forming water. This mechanism optimizes process efficiency by addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with efficiency sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, enhancing overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with molybdenum influencing catalytic activity, are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer a stable system for optimization. Cr maintains high selectivity at improved conversions, making this system an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and preventing undesired interactions. Site isolation selectively controls reactive sites' availability for intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, leads to an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surfaces, particularly those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges, plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneities vital for enhanced performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO highlight the importance of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing catalysts (unsupported, supported, and promoters), factors impacting activity and selectivity (composition, reducibility, surface properties), and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency, concluding with future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple reaction pathways. No single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site. The first step is oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been proposed. Species properties do not fit efficient alkene oxidation. A complete modeling of the reaction process is necessary. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves primary and secondary reactions. MoOx and VOx catalyze via reduction-oxidation cycles, with rates limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting increased MoOx surface reactivity. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. These findings parallel trends in stoichiometric reduction rates and LMCT absorption edge energies, indicating a mechanistic connection between ODH rates and electronic spectra of dispersed oxides.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting ODH and combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in ODH requires sites similar to those in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to C2 compounds faces low yields, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates presents an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation challenging, limiting selectivity. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for initial activation, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, and dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion and increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with higher reducibility leading to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with effectiveness varying by alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst selection and reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, significantly impact process efficiency. Acid-base properties and oxygen type affect ODH performance. Reducible transition metal oxides and other catalysts, like B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P, have been studied. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize to CO and CO2. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the ODH reaction path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying catalyst behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support play a significant role in the formation of acid and basic centers, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows similar chemistry, with mobile Cr ions interacting with various molecules. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions easier to reduce on softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions exist in multiple oxidation states, influenced by support type. Higher Cr loadings promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface, with structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, critical for catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active, selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, increasing olefin formation. Specific catalysts like vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites in ODH reactions remain under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts like supported metal oxides, shows performance affected by agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains (Quote 2). Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (Quote 4), and binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4 and 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is critical for enhancing selectivity towards dehydrogenation over oxygenated product formation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane ODH to propylene, employing niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity from facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature, peaking at 700°C. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, demonstrating efficient conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, A12O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of cluster size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, as demonstrated by Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts, requires BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity for ethylene and propene at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion and ethane/ethylene selectivity, with mechanisms involving C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane's conversion to ethylene is more efficient due to lower C-H bond strength and C2H5 radical formation. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions notably enhances C2H4 selectivity, demonstrating the pivotal role of catalysts in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting electron transfer and catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism is key, where lattice oxygens activate CH bonds, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. Site isolation enhances selectivity, addressing conversion challenges. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, forming water from OH groups.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H bond activation and site regeneration, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity optimization. The sensitivity of the mechanism to the local structure of chromium underscores the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, offer high selectivity and improved conversions, serving as an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. This system shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably through supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions, improving selectivity and impacting the distribution of active sites, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, requiring a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, which makes dehydrogenation unlikely. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites reveals variations in reactivity. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is suggested to play a role in addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneity enhancing performance. Site isolation, critical for controlling catalytic site structures and improving selectivity, is achieved through methods like TMP, generating high-performance catalysts. Materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a role in site isolation, impacting bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation also benefit from site isolation strategies, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, spotlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, conditions, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact activity and selectivity. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, alongside kinetic and mechanism insights, summarizing conclusions and future trends for a comprehensive ODH process understanding.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been suggested, involving specific properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a difficult but promising challenge, and efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways, and the goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts. The first step of the transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, primarily catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, faces rate limitations due to the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity crucially affects pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing rates. Lewis acidity, ascending from V5+ to W6+, enhances activation energy differences between ODH and combustion. Adsorption enthalpies, reflecting cation Lewis acidity, influence ODH and combustion rates. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation. Propene's reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. ODH on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption and transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, rising with cation Lewis acidity, strongly influence k3/k1 ratios. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, observed in ODH rates and k2/k1, k3/k1 ratios on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields and often necessitates N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's efficacy in CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables high-yield C2 compound production via radical coupling under conventional conditions, addressing the selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their challenging activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves (Quote 1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis (Quote 2). The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but hindered industrial use (Quote 3). Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (Quote 4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization (Quote 5). Activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues (Quote 6). Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity (Quote 10). Catalyst reactivity and surface intermediates' reaction speed are crucial (Quote 11). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides (Quote 12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation (Quote 14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (Quote 16). Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates (Quote 17). Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity (Quote 20). Site isolation improves selectivity (Quote 50). Modifying catalysts with niobia, Te, or Pd alters redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene (Quotes 22, 24, 25, 26). The initial C-H bond activation by the catalyst is critical (Quote 31). Acidic properties of oxides are influenced by the cation's charge and radius (Quote 32). Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are related to bulk vs. surface reduction (Quote 34).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The nature of the alkane affects reactivity and catalyst choice. Reaction conditions such as temperature and contact time influence selectivity and activity. Understanding the molecular mechanism requires advanced techniques. Kinetic models are used to analyze experimental data and proposed mechanisms. Catalyst selection is crucial for specific alkanes and reaction conditions. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The coordination number of the active center and the environment on which the dissociation of alkane proceeds affect the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits high mobility and reactivity, with redox behavior dependent on support type and composition. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ emerge, influenced by support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. Calcination anchors Cr oxides via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions, mirroring Cr chemistry on various surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity, as do V-containing molecular sieves in ethane and propane oxydehydrogenation. Active and selective sites remain under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia properties linked to V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support, with ongoing research aiming to understand selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    