Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts show activity in alkane ODH, with the support significantly affecting reactivity (Quote 4). The formation of binary dispersed structures can alter the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify the acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is a key factor in designing efficient catalysts for alkane ODH (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based ones, regardless of the support (Quote 9). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11). These factors collectively impact the efficiency of the ODH process, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. High temperatures are needed, favoring gas phase reactions. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances selectivity, preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, yielding ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by reaction temperature. High C2 selectivities are favored at lower surface areas, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, impacting product distribution. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. The right size of active sites, monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, is crucial for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures/reducible catalysts promoting surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed, influenced by the catalyst's acid-base properties. Alkoxy species decomposition, requiring BrSnsted acid sites, produces propene, highlighting the importance of site isolation in selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. These findings highlight the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting their efficiency. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxide surfaces, producing alkyl radicals. Methyl and ethyl radicals follow different pathways, with C2H4 yields being more than twice those of methane oxidative coupling due to the absence of an analogous stable product route for CH3 radicals. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process by minimizing secondary reactions and maximizing desired product yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a pivotal role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation is irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism aligns with Mars-van Krevelen redox theory, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, illustrating the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with a mechanism comprising C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions and restricts the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, enhancing selectivity. Supported systems impact the distribution of active sites, affecting overall selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is unlikely due to a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites, those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, highlights the role of site isolation in selectivity, although site isolation is not explicitly discussed. This analysis addresses the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, emphasizing the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method facilitates the production of high-performance propane ODH catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights the activation of hydrocarbons and factors governing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, and the complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. Different pathways have been suggested, but no single mechanism stands out. The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts. The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation, and various mechanisms have been proposed for activation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. Catalytic turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations in VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 significantly influences the process. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Propane ODH and propene combustion rates are governed by CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting cation Lewis acidity. Higher Lewis acidity increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion. Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties of oxides and supports, impact k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion occurs on similar sites, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to its chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields at higher temperatures. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with cation Lewis acid strength. Catalyst activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) are attributed to metal reducibility and oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent research shows lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to high yields of C2 compounds via radical coupling under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves, making their conversion to more valuable products a focus of research. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for the chemical industry. However, the high stability of alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, poses a challenge for industrial processes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative, yet catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues as products may be readily oxidized under activation conditions. The CH bond's high energy in primary carbons and the initial activation by the catalyst, requiring affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface, are pivotal. Catalyst reactivity, influenced by the hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, determines the reaction rate of surface intermediates. Molecular oxygen activation necessitates a reducible oxide, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species correlate with non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, with dramatic effects on activity. Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support is more effective. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers, but not necessarily with oxidation state under reaction conditions. Acid-base and redox properties of the support affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of the alkane affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining molecular mechanisms requires advanced techniques, and kinetic models are essential for analyzing experimental data. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions, with different catalysts showing varying effectiveness for different alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions show varying oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The aim is to understand these sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides' performance affected by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with V2O5 loading, optimal with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Reduced vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. N2O as an oxidant results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industry, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is an attractive process for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with selectivity and conversion peaking at elevated temperatures. Low surface areas favor C2 selectivities, but may lead to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. Active site size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Active cationic sites oxidize substrates, while another site reduces dioxygen. Efficient structures facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. Isolated metallic ion sites alone cannot account for all transformations, as oxygen anion vacancies, H atom extraction, and electron transfer are involved. Homolytic C-H bond fragmentation occurs via hydrogen transfer to the oxygen ion at -2 oxidation state, with concerted action breaking the metal-oxygen bond. Oxygen ions exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic properties, affecting C-H bond activation and double bond or aromatic ring interaction. Site isolation and the size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites are critical for selectivity and conversion, depending on the reaction and support used.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts [1,15]. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic [16]. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption [17], while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed [18]. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites [19]. These factors collectively optimize the process, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is key for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of alkyl radicals in C-H bond activation. The mechanism differs for CH3 and C2H5 radicals, with C2H4 yields being more than twice as high in OXD compared to methane oxidative coupling due to secondary reactions. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the impact of catalysts and reaction mechanisms on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the MO bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This approach addresses the challenges of achieving high conversion and selectivity, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, impacting process efficiency. The reaction mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with H2 evolution.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely mechanism. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site characteristics in process efficiency. Site isolation, while not explicitly discussed, is implied in the context of comparing surface sites, which can address selectivity issues in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, demonstrate the impact of site isolation on reactivities and selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms (Quote [1]). It explores unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties that influence catalytic efficiency (Quote [2]). The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, providing insights into process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is difficult due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, while the complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge in heterogeneous catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by the effects of residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence ODH and combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential for selective ODH, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive and thus preserved over time, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves and potential conversion into valuable chemical products (1). The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is a key industrial goal (2). However, the activation of alkanes is more challenging than that of unsaturated hydrocarbons due to their high stability (6). The development of direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Selectivity is limited by the conditions required to activate paraffins, which can readily oxidize the formed products (6). The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the first step in their transformation (7). Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond (11). Catalyst reactivity, influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction and surface hydrocarbon species stability, is crucial for selectivity (10). The activation of molecular oxygen requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective in forming C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen (35). Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity (38). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (39). Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties of the support affect ethane conversion (49). Site isolation improves selectivity (50). The addition of niobia modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene (28). Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting performance (33). The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene (30).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of alkane affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features collectively impact ODH efficiency. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters also affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the acid-base character of catalysts influences olefin formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for selective ODH catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides (VMgO) and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' different properties relate to V-species' coordination and environment modifications, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and support influence understanding. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can significantly affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is key for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, uses Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide has high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve selectivity by preventing facile reduction, a key to addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methane's hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, forming methyl radicals that couple to ethane, which can oxidize further to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts demonstrate that smaller, polymeric species exhibit better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than larger species or bulk oxides. This highlights the importance of active site size and the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors enhance oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's linked to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The initial activation step for CH4 and C2H6 is the formation of alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. The subsequent pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice as large as those from CH4 due to the absence of an analogous route to stable products for CH3 radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 (422 kJ mol-1) is less than in CH4 (439 kJ mol-1), leading to greater reaction rates with C2H6. These factors collectively influence process efficiency, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in catalyst regeneration. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, highlighting the importance of site isolation for optimized process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation impacts selectivity, crucial for process optimization, as the reaction mechanism is sensitive to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and product yields. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, particularly Cr for retaining high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions, improving selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation in catalyst design are essential for optimizing the ODH process by controlling radical formation and preventing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, exhibit varying reactivities. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, although its explicit discussion is limited in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, demonstrate the critical role of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. The nature of active and selective sites is explored, and detailed analysis of kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, is provided. The review concludes with insights into future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms involving specific sites. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic turnover rates. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Turnover rates correlate with LMCT absorption edge energies, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. The relative rates of propane ODH and propene combustion are influenced by CH bond energy differences and the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting the Lewis acidity of cations. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with the Lewis acidity of the cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered as the same sites are required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion reactions. The reducibility of metal centers and the basicity of active lattice oxygen species are key factors in the observed catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been low, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent findings show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling. We've achieved high C2 compound yields from CH4 under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, yet their conversion is economically significant. Selective conversion of paraffins to various products is crucial for chemical industries. The lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial processes, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalyst types, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. The efficiency of ODH is collectively affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal results.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of C2-C4 alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and presence of acid/base sites are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances selectivity and formation rate of desired olefins. The nature of active and selective sites in ODH reactions is still under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts showing different properties due to modifications in V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems have been studied to optimize active site dispersion and understand support influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for ODH of short chain alkanes remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. Catalyst reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures with high selectivity. Propane conversion to propylene benefits from niobium oxide, with enhanced activity by adding V, Cr, or Mo, without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve selectivity by preventing facile reduction, which can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to a point. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as CH3. reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with their size, electronic, and geometric properties significantly impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Oxygen ions can exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic character, affecting catalytic properties. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical, depending on the reaction and support used. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice. Understanding and optimizing these factors is essential for enhancing ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. C-H bond activation is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios enhance catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. C2H4 yields are higher due to different pathways for ethyl radicals compared to methyl radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of C-H bond strength in reaction rates. Catalysts effective for methane oxidative coupling are also suitable for ethane OXD, with initial activation forming alkyl radicals.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a pivotal role, with OH bond strength influencing reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands affects electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This analysis underscores the importance of catalyst design in addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the reaction mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Two lattice oxygens activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH group recombines with neighboring OH groups to form water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize by O2 chemisorption. This mechanism highlights the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation affects selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process optimization in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions and undesired side reactions by controlling the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thereby optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, results in the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites, those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, highlights the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, affecting reactivity, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and various factors affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms are analyzed. Conclusions and future trends are summarized, addressing the comprehensive analysis of ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO overcoming the activation step. Selectivity and conversion are hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Catalysts' efficiency is influenced by their interplay, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. For instance, VPO and VSbO catalysts activate alkanes through specific sites, involving hydrogen abstraction and electron transfer. The role of oxygen species in activation has been suggested, with O) species playing a crucial role. Dopants significantly affect VPO catalysts' properties. VSbO catalysts undergo redox changes, becoming p-type semiconductors under propane, with active sites attributed to isolated vanadium species. The M1 phase's structure supports vanadium sites for alkane activation, with resonance forms leading to surface O) for H abstraction. The efficiency of ODH is optimized through understanding these mechanisms and catalyst properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize catalytic functions independent of chemical composition, as evidenced by the exponential dependence of ODH rates on LMCT absorption edge energies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2 showing lower activation energies and higher reaction rates for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion compared to MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2. The Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to Mo6+ to W6+, affects the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. The reducibility of metal centers and the basicity of active lattice oxygen species are critical for catalytic activities, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting the highest activity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions and the combustion of alkenes occurs on the same sites, impacting alkene yields. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH reactions is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy of formation, while propene combustion has a lower activation energy, affecting k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation for conversion is economically significant despite its difficulty, due to their large reserves and potential to produce valuable chemical products. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is challenging due to alkanes' low reactivity, which has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial for catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to high stability, limiting selectivity as products may oxidize easily. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the first step in transformation. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation, related to oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences oxidation states, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature, affecting selectivity and conversion. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, are crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions may decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. The acid-base character of catalysts influences olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility towards various molecules. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr ions' redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure influenced by the support type, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. Higher loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character of catalysts, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. The nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modify the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and help understand the support's influence. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including supported metal oxides, where factors like metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic solid properties impact performance. Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. N2O as an oxidant results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be linked to work function values, and secondary metal oxide additives enhance propane activation. Incorporating high vanadium contents can lead to structural instability. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity increasing with Mo surface density up to a point. MoOx domain size affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. High temperatures are needed, favoring gas phase reactions. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, emphasizing the role of site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using specific catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide shows high selectivity in propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction near vanadium sites enhances selectivity by preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as they prevent the formation of CO and CO2 by promoting CH3. reaction with surface O2- ions. This Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems to activate C-H bonds, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. Challenges include achieving high selectivity and conversion, influenced by the nature of active sites. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, enhancing selectivity. Monomeric species like MoO42- and VO43- exhibit acidic properties, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts require dynamic consideration under reaction conditions, with active site size and ion ratio regulated by reactants and preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively enhance process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, studied via EPR technique, reveal enhanced catalytic activity for ODH with increased copper concentration in thoria. Selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is key for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with C2H5 radicals identified. C2H4 yields from OXD are higher than from methane coupling due to different pathways for radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 (422 kJ mol-1) vs. CH4 (439 kJ mol-1) influences reaction rates and selectivity, with C2H6 reactions being faster.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The reaction mechanism, akin to Mars-van Krevelen, involves irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and OH recombination to form water. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. This highlights the importance of catalyst structure in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and yields. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a key role in catalytic reactions, influencing pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically helps in managing radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity by restricting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is unlikely due to high activation energy, around 220 kJ mol-1. This mechanism requires a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states, forming an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is critical for addressing selectivity issues, as evidenced by the comparison of reactivity between different Cr(III)silica surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, improves selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts, and site isolation strategies on oxide supports lead to better control over catalytic sites. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation affecting reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation also benefit from site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, an alternative to direct dehydrogenation. It emphasizes catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, with a spotlight on hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency. The text covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and various factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. It also explores the nature of active and selective sites, analyzes kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, and summarizes conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and characterize structure defects, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, affecting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, mirroring trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by cation identity, shows increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies increasing as acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of oxides and supports impact k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to Mo oxides. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with Lewis acid strength of cations. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Extensive research on methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has yielded poor results. N2O is sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide's (Li/MgO) efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their low reactivity, drives research in oxidative dehydrogenation. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical products. Alkane stability, due to their electronic structure, makes activation challenging, limiting selectivity under typical reaction conditions. Catalysts, particularly those with reducible oxides or dopants, are essential for molecular oxygen activation. The affinity between alkanes and catalyst surfaces is critical for initial activation, influencing selectivity and conversion. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon stability determine the rate of surface intermediates' reaction. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. The presence of Te and Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. The high affinity of Pd for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity. Understanding bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule is key to optimizing catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane type. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst selection is critical, influenced by alkane type and reaction conditions. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Kinetic models and advanced techniques are used to understand mechanisms. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species. Acid and basic centers' formation depends on the support and additive basicity. Olefin formation and desorption rates depend on the catalyst's acid-base character.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state of the metal cation. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimized VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures and the addition of secondary metals like P, K, Ca, and Mo can modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, as demonstrated in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity during ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and domain size. Alkali additives like Cs, K, and Li affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene by inhibiting MoOx reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity from facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to a certain point. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities due to the dominant pathway of CH3 reacting with surface O2- ions. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Active sites for oxidation are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size influences catalytic properties. Supported oxide catalysts require characterization techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED to understand the clusters on the surface. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal ratios of active ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary with catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively enhance process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with increased copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation is critical for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. C2H4 yields are higher than in methane coupling due to different pathways for CH3 and C2H5 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, specifically the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, while reversible OH recombination steps form water. This mechanism addresses the challenges of selectivity and conversion, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. This NiCo molybdate system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by preventing undesired reactions and managing the distribution of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for catalytic dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, are compared for reactivity, although site isolation is not explicitly discussed. This analysis addresses the interplay between catalysts and reaction mechanisms in ODH of alkanes, highlighting the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, emphasizing the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method facilitates the creation of high-performance propane ODH catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, covering unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic and mechanism analysis, is also discussed, culminating in conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Efficient catalysts must have properties suitable for alkene oxidation, such as long-range electron delocalization and high electron mobility. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Lattice oxygen involvement in the activation of n-butane has been confirmed, indicating a critical role in the reaction process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, controlled by domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials for optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Turnover rates correlate with LMCT absorption edge energies, indicating the sensitivity of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation to electron transfer capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies increasing as acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of oxides and supports influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Extensive research on methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has faced low yield challenges. N2O is sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4. Under conventional catalytic conditions, high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion have been achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though difficult to activate compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The high stability of alkanes, attributed to their electronic structure, has hindered their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, affecting selectivity. CH bond cleavage is the initial step in hydrocarbon transformation. Catalyst affinity and reactivity are critical for alkane activation. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants. N2O use enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic support and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Catalyst modifications, such as adding niobia or Te/Pd, alter redox properties and increase selectivity to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, involves catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion influenced by C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Efficiency is determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, affecting olefin formation and desorption. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species, and support nature influences acid and basic centers, crucial for olefinic intermediate formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in various oxidation states, influenced by the support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. The coordination and aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and the presence of acid/base sites, are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides exhibit high selectivity for olefins in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves show high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. The different catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    