Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, notably supported metal oxides, where agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties are pivotal (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' performance is affected by the support (Quote 4), and binary dispersed structures can alter their reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial in designing efficient catalysts (Quote 7), as seen in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industry, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, provide higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which improves with added V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by resisting facile reduction, crucial for high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, leading to C2 products. Higher temperatures and low surface areas enhance selectivity and conversion by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offers a novel approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion. Active sites, including isolated metallic ion sites, are crucial for reaction efficiency. Different faces of MoO3 crystals exhibit varying activity and selectivity in olefin oxidation, highlighting structure sensitivity. Polyvanadate species size affects catalytic selectivity in o-xylene oxidation to phthalic anhydride. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates, demonstrating the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. C-H bond activation produces a propyl radical, favoring alkyl desorption at high temperatures and surface reactions at low temperatures with reducible catalysts. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively influence the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity. Selectivity peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios, with higher copper content boosting ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is linked to substitutional sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation for controlling active sites and optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts are critical, with optimal ones achieving significant conversion and selectivity. The process involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. Ethane ODH yields higher C2H4 than methane oxidative coupling due to distinct radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved high C2H4 selectivity, underscoring catalyst choice's importance. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting electron transfer and catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength to intermediate levels boosts selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity, collectively optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly propane, over supported MoOx catalysts, follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds, forming propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids the redox cycle, forming water. This mechanism optimizes process efficiency and addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, as demonstrated over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica catalysts activate C-H bonds, form M-alkyl intermediates, and abstract 2H, with the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium site structure impacting selectivity and process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for optimizing the process. The reaction, involving H transfer and chromium site regeneration, results in H2 evolution.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, serving as a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process optimization needs.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, controlling radical-radical interactions and reactive site availability, impacting active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, results in an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, plays a critical role in selectivity, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, notably in propane ODH, excel due to high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, influences selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, enhancing propane ODH efficiency. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, with site isolation, play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses the activation of hydrocarbons and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, including catalyst types and promoters. Key efficiency factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties are analyzed. The nature of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms, are examined. The text concludes with future trends, offering a thorough analysis of the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems crucial for overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally accepted. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms. [Quote 1] highlights the difficulty and promise of finding catalysts for light alkane oxidation. [Quote 2] emphasizes the importance of efficient catalysts in overcoming activation barriers. [Quote 3] underscores the complexity arising from multiple reaction pathways. [Quote 5] aims to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. [Quote 7] reviews the proposed mechanisms for light alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles (Quote 2). Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms (Quote 4). Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy (Quote 10), paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition (Quote 28).", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, and decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, influencing propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Activation energies rise with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy, entropy differences, and acid-base properties affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires the same sites, limiting selective strategies. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors MoOx/ZrO2. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Reducibility and basicity determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH needs intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in their high stability, making activation difficult. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te and Pd doping influence vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst bulk reduction vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule impact activity and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms such as C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and is influenced by acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters. Site isolation aids selectivity. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. Ethoxide ions decompose to ethene or further oxidize. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect ODH paths. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, influenced by support and additive basicity. Olefin formation and desorption depend on catalyst acid-base character. Optimizing conditions like feed mixture, temperature, and contact time enhances selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water, with redox behavior dependent on the support type. Cr ions are more easily reduced on softer supports, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reduction, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation, affecting the catalyst's efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character of catalysts, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalyst properties like metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and metal cation valence state, benefits from intermediate-sized VOx domains in supported metal oxides. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Vanadium reduction during ODH is lower than stoichiometric, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction boosting propylene selectivity. Additives like P, K, Ca, and alkali metals modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing selectivity and activity. Site isolation, as in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites boost ethylene selectivity, is critical for efficient catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, less active than vanadia-based ones, have activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives impact MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties, and can improve propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane to propylene, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve selectivity by preventing facile reduction, crucial for high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature, peaking at 700°C. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation states, offers a novel approach to ODH, addressing selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from intricate mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, enhance selectivity by stabilizing desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites are critical for selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, such as MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2, exhibit varying catalytic properties based on loading and support nature, with monomeric species favoring acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by lattice oxygen mobility and wetting effects, is essential for understanding their functioning and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, requires BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures promote alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts favor surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking ethylene and propene selectivity at specific ratios. Higher copper boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, optimizing selectivity through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO with chloride ions achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting site isolation's role in selectivity. Initial activation forms alkyl radicals, with C2H5 identified by MIESR. C2H4 yields from OXD are more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling, due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals, influenced by the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal for selective oxidation, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties, particularly achieving intermediate MO bond strength, enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds, forming propene, while reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination aids in catalyst regeneration. This mechanism optimizes process efficiency by tackling selectivity and conversion issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and site regeneration with H2 evolution. Site isolation significantly affects selectivity, highlighting the mechanism's sensitivity to the local structure around chromium, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, optimized with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, show promise. Notably, Cr maintains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, positioning NiCo molybdate systems as a competitive alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals are pivotal for pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by curtailing side reactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for intermediates, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, faces a high activation energy barrier, making this pathway unlikely. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, as evidenced by comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges, highlighting its importance in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, as site isolation through methods like TMP enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is critical for reactivity in materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting the spatial arrangement of metal atoms on the surface, which is key for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, discussing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, including bulk and supported catalysts. Key aspects like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties are analyzed, alongside the nature of active and selective sites. The text delves into C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex challenge in catalysis, with high selectivity and conversion hindered by multiple reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, are crucial for alkane activation, overcoming the initial activation step. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, involving oxidative dehydrogenation as the first step. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts should be restricted to alkane activation sites, necessitating a complete modeling of the reaction process. The activation of light alkanes involves different sites and mechanisms, with the first step often involving methylene CH bond rupture. Lattice oxygen is involved in the activation process, and different mechanisms have been proposed. The role of superoxide or peroxo species has been suggested, but they should not be stable in the presence of the alkane. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested from thermodynamic considerations. Dopants influence the catalytic properties of VPO catalysts, and the two most efficient catalysts, ZrP2O7 and TiP2O7, are p-type semiconductors under air. The alkane activation can be related to the p-type semiconducting properties of the solids, likely through hydrogen abstraction by a surface O) species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the ability of larger domains to accept electron density. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates, consistent across various supports and reducible oxides.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, impacting ODH and combustion rates. Activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion rise with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy and acid-base properties influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective strategies. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. Selective ODH demands intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, with some processes preferring N2O over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This leads to C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives research into converting alkanes to valuable products despite their low reactivity and high stability, which makes activation harder than for unsaturated hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts are crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, with site isolation improving selectivity. Activation requires an affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface, influenced by the catalyst's reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation demands reducible oxides, with non-reducible oxides needing dopants. N2O enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with niobia-modified vanadia titania catalysts increasing selectivity to ethylene. The presence of Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. Initial C-H bond activation by the catalyst is critical, with surface acid/base features of oxides depending on the cation's charge and radius.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by the alkane's nature, catalyst type, reaction conditions, and specific alkane features. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions for optimized ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits versatile surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Support type and composition influence Cr's existence in multiple oxidation states under reducing conditions. Key factors include Cr loading and surface area, affecting polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites playing significant roles. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity and olefin formation rate. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with ongoing efforts to understand these in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric (Quote 2). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts showing higher selectivity (Quote 4). Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is critical for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites enhances selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Most catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9). Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported catalyst systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5 in activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites, is crucial for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane ODH, targeting propylene, benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives without sacrificing activity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, up to 700°C. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, favoring C2 product selectivity. Lower surface areas in the Li/MgO system limit CO and CO2 formation, enhancing C2 selectivity. This novel catalyst, lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offers a fresh approach to oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, addressing selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) utilizes catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Key mechanisms include C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, collectively impacting process efficiency. Site isolation is pivotal, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size and properties significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions, with smaller, isolated sites often enhancing selectivity. Oxygen ions exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic character, influencing catalytic properties. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size greatly influences catalytic properties. Monomeric species exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial for the reaction considered and the support used.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond breaking is homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively improve the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are tuned by Cu/Th ratios. Increased copper concentration boosts catalytic activity, with ethylene and propene selectivity peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation is key for selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane and ethylene selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. Site isolation, as demonstrated by a Li/MgO catalyst achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, is critical for selectivity. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are critical, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances process efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, significantly improves selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where CH bond activation leads to propene desorption. The remaining OH groups recombine to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges to optimize process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with site isolation crucial for selectivity due to the reaction's sensitivity to local structure around chromium, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing catalytic activity and yields. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, demonstrating potential for direct propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, optimizing the distribution of active sites and overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation prevent certain intermediates from accessing reactive sites, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The ODH mechanism over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, leading to an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex that requires β-hydrogen transfer for catalysis. Site isolation influences reactivity, indirectly addressing selectivity issues, as evidenced by comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges. The high activation energy suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, excel in propane ODH, highlighting the TMP method's efficiency boost. Site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, enhances selectivity by managing metal atoms' spatial arrangement. Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO support materials and well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation underscore site isolation's role in reactivity, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, discussing catalysts (unsupported and supported), promoters, and factors impacting activity and selectivity. It explores reaction mechanisms, including kinetic studies and the nature of active sites, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with high selectivity and conversion hindered by the multitude of reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, are crucial as they provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step of hydrocarbons. The search for a common activation site for these catalysts is ongoing, aiming to address the selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, involving C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism stands out as universally applicable. Site isolation plays a key role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing active species. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify the conduction mechanism and characterize structure defects, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by residence time, proceeds via reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts, with reaction rates limited by CH bond activation. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as observed in MoOx and VOx domains. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, optimize materials for catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, as evidenced by the correlation between stoichiometric reduction rates and LUMO energy decreases.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity notably affects pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely impacting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, affecting ODH and combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion. Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports impact k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation sites are shared between ODH and combustion, hindering selective poisoning for yield improvement. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are anticipated on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. Activation energy for ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields at higher temperatures. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often favoring N2O over O2 as the oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, as demonstrated in our recent work.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, economically significant due to vast reserves, face activation challenges compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues as products may oxidize under activation conditions. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with the hydrocarbon surface is crucial for CH bond activation, influencing selectivity, which is also determined by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducibility for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances C2-oxygenate selectivity, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, affecting activity dramatically. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers, but not necessarily with the oxidation state under reaction conditions. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, explaining different performances after doping. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness. Mechanisms such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Efficiency is determined by the interplay of these factors, with catalyst selection critical for specific alkanes and conditions. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, and ethoxide ions affect olefinic intermediate formation. The coordination number and environment of the active center influence the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species, and the support's nature affects acid and basic center formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibits high reactivity and mobility with various molecules, influenced by the support type and composition. Softer supports ease Cr ion reduction, with the oxide support acting as a ligand to control redox properties. Reducing conditions yield Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support specifics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimized VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation stems from adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, impacting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced. Selectivity to propylene rises with higher surface reduction. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are pivotal for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives modify MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity than bulk metal oxides like V2O5. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene, outperforming other oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane to propylene conversion, with enhanced activity by V, Cr, and Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation and ethane coupling. Selectivity and conversion peak at optimal temperatures, while lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivity by minimizing CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst, lacking variable oxidation state metals, which contributes to its unique performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Active sites, including cationic sites for substrate oxidation and dioxygen reduction sites, are crucial. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts significantly affects the reaction, is pivotal. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often lead to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly influence selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions, highlighting the need for understanding and controlling these factors for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated with MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation, believed to be homolytic, produces a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. Redox equilibria and site isolation significantly influence process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is crucial for optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, metal oxides activate alkanes, leading to alkyl radical formation. CH3 radicals couple to ethane, while C2H5 radicals favor higher C2H4 yields. Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion, highlighting site isolation's role in selectivity. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates its reaction rate and conversion, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength dictating reactivity and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting electron transfer, crucial for catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength is key to selective oxidation, and site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing secondary reactions, vital for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts primarily yields propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary products. The Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration are key steps. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process efficiency, as the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium site structure highlights. This understanding aids in addressing selectivity issues and optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. These catalysts are alternatives to V-based systems for light paraffin activation, offering direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents radical interactions and restricts reactive sites for intermediates, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "Exploring CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica for dehydrogenation reveals high activation energy (220 kJ mol-1), making this mechanism unlikely. Site isolation on varying Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with different oxygen bridges, plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes, highlighting the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, produced by TMP, enhance propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, controls catalytic site structures. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO affect reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review explores n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The text examines active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, concluding with future trends. Emphasizing the alternative process to direct dehydrogenation, the review highlights factors governing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis due to the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, notably VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step, yet achieving high selectivity and conversion remains elusive. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism dominates. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step of the alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation, involving specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, is crucial for alkane conversion. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms, influenced by the LUMO energy level. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states for reduction steps. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can design materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propene and propane rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, along with acid-base properties, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength, influencing k3/k1 ratios. Catalyst activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) are attributed to reducibility and oxygen species basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, demonstrating success in converting CH4 to C2 compounds.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to vast reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is difficult due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts and conditions, requires careful selection based on alkane type for optimal selectivity and activity. Catalysts, from bulk metal oxides to supported systems, vary in effectiveness. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center influence the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, with acid and basic centers affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment. Higher loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports affecting vanadium dispersion and species, with surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, and coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity and olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, as well as V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support, with reaction mechanisms and selective sites still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state, significantly influence performance. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing alkane activation. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, affecting selectivity. In ethane ODH, the presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is key for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical industrial process, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quotes 4-5). Among supported systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 7). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in activity and selectivity over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, or Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. Higher temperatures and lower surface areas favor C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling. The Li/MgO system, lacking variable oxidation states, is a novel catalyst type that enhances C2 selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Challenges in achieving high selectivity are addressed through understanding complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Active sites play a critical role, with their size and electronic properties impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced for MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation produces a propyl radical, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures promoting surface reactions on reducible catalysts. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence catalytic activity and selectivity. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts activity, while selectivity peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity by controlling active sites, as evidenced by studies showing the effect of copper content on conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO catalysts activate methane and ethane, forming alkyl radicals. Ethane conversion surpasses methane due to higher C-H bond reactivity and absence of a stable CH3 radical pathway, achieving higher C2H4 yields. Catalysts for oxidative coupling enhance ethane OXD, highlighting the interplay between catalysts and mechanisms in optimizing selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and energy gap between bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties enhances efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, significantly boosts selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, highlighting the catalyst's role in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "Ethane's oxidative dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with efficiency sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, addressing key challenges in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and notably Cr, enhancing activity and selectivity at higher conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for converting propane to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation optimizes the process by managing radical interactions and reactive site availability, preventing undesired reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, a process for CH activation, is explored over Cr(III)silica surface sites. The mechanism involving oxidative addition and a double oxidation of chromium is unlikely due to a high activation energy barrier, suggesting it's not a viable route for dehydrogenation. Site characteristics, including the number of oxygen bridges, significantly influence reactivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), emphasizing the role of high surface areas and homogeneity in enhancing heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through tailored methods, controls catalytic site structures, significantly improving selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, optimizing site structure and generating site-isolated catalysts. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, with site isolation, are crucial for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites, highlighting the importance of metal atom arrangement on the surface for reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms as alternatives to direct dehydrogenation. It underscores hydrocarbon activation and the pivotal role of catalysts, including unsupported and supported varieties, in governing efficiency. Key factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity are analyzed, alongside the nature of active sites and reaction kinetics. The text concludes with insights into future trends, encapsulating the essence of oxidative dehydrogenation's process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as noted in quote [1], due to the complexity of achieving high selectivity and conversion amidst numerous reaction pathways (quote [3]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems (quote [2]), are crucial as they provide mechanisms to overcome the activation step. The search for a common activation site for these catalysts is ongoing, aiming to address selectivity issues through site isolation. The activation of light alkanes involves various proposed mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and the role of M-alkyl intermediates, which collectively influence process efficiency. Site isolation plays a critical role in stabilizing active species intermediates, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, activates the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons during CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials for optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 were studied for their effect on pathways. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx to WOx, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Rates depend on CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals that couple to produce C2 compounds in high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically valuable due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. However, the high stability of alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Catalyst reactivity determines the reaction rate of surface intermediates. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting catalyst performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with bulk metal oxides and supported systems affecting selectivity and conversion. Catalyst choice depends on alkane type, with varying effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction conditions, including temperature and contact time, impact selectivity and activity. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties and oxygen type affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be further oxidized. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the reaction path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. The acid-base character of catalysts affects olefinic intermediate formation and desorption, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with redox behavior influenced by the support type. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, affected by support composition. Calcination anchors Cr oxides via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment. The surface chemistry of Cr is support-dependent, with a tendency toward polychromate formation at higher loadings and lower surface areas.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base characteristics, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites affect catalytic behavior, essential for selective catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, but the reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be enhanced by secondary surface metal oxide additives. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a crucial reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quotes 4 & 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion are temperature-dependent, peaking around optimal temperatures. Lower surface areas limit pathways to CO and CO2, favoring high C2 selectivities. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, offering a new approach to process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial. Site isolation stabilizes active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions. Active site size and properties significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts show that monomeric species exhibit acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their function, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, leading to optimal ratios of active ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, facilitated by BrSnsted acid sites as shown for MoMgO catalysts, is sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures promote alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts favor surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition, requiring BrSnsted acid sites, correlates with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varied Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria enhances catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios, declining thereafter. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites, which may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion with high C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production mainly from CH3 radical coupling. Ethane ODH shows higher C2H4 selectivity due to weaker C-H bonds and faster reaction rates. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are critical, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, specifically the MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism is observed, where lattice oxygens activate CH bonds, forming propene and water, with reduced Mo centers reoxidizing via O2 chemisorption. Site isolation of active centers enhances efficiency by minimizing side reactions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, specifically ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, crucial for high selectivity and conversion. Efficiency is sensitive to chromium site structure, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer a stable system for optimization. Cr shows potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdates an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. They hold promise for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation optimizes the process by preventing radical-radical interactions and undesired reactions, crucial for efficient ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, with site characteristics playing a critical role in reactivity. The unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex necessitates β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle, but the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) renders this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges highlight the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues and optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts are superior, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneity for enhanced performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, generating site-isolated catalysts. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, where metal atom arrangement on the surface defines reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, reaction mechanisms, and efficiency factors. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity affect activity and selectivity. The review also delves into the nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Efficient catalysts, like VPO and VSbO-based systems, overcome activation barriers, but the multitude of reaction pathways complicates selectivity. Different mechanisms have been proposed, emphasizing the need for a common activation site. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with mechanisms including hydrogen abstraction by surface O) species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts exhibit p-type semiconducting properties, facilitating hydrogen abstraction. The dynamic nature of catalytic surfaces suggests the importance of considering surface dynamics and collective properties for a complete model. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalyst properties, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the impact of domain size on reactivity. Quantum confinement effects, controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to oxide domains' electron acceptance ability during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies correlate with higher ODH turnover rates, highlighting the importance of electron transfer in CH bond activation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity (VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2) dictates activation energies and reaction rates, influenced by Lewis acidity, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, complicating selective poisoning. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often favoring N2O over O2 as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which makes their activation difficult, limiting selectivity and conversion. Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with the initial C-H bond activation requiring an affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, and dopants can provide such sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina and reducible supports increase activity, with higher reducibility correlating with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of the catalyst significantly affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity, and the addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd alters the oxidation state of vanadium, impacting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, affecting efficiency. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging, requiring advanced techniques. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the reaction path. Catalysts' acid-base character influences olefin formation and desorption rates. Optimization involves linking catalyst selection to alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits similar chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Chromium oxides anchor onto surfaces post-calcination, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions, highlighting the role of the support in catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports' acid-base character, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility, structure, and acid-base properties are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    