Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalyst properties including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence state, and electronic properties significantly impact reactivity (1). Vanadium oxide, supported on various materials, exhibits enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (4), with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide, affecting selectivity (6). Site isolation is a key factor in the design of efficient catalysts for alkane ODH, impacting selectivity (7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems and specific catalysts like MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO offer higher selectivity than bulk metal oxides. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism. Site isolation, correlating dehydrogenation vs oxygenated product formation with site distance, addresses selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity and activity. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide shows high selectivity but low conversion. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide enhances activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost vanadium sites' selectivity by being less reducible, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation. C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increase up to 700°C. Lower surface areas limit CO and CO2 formation, favoring high C2 selectivity. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offering a unique approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding mechanisms such as C-H bond activation. Active sites, crucial for reactions, are stabilized by site isolation. Site size significantly impacts selectivity and conversion rates, with monomeric species often leading to total oxidation and low-size polymeric species showing better selectivity for partial oxidation. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Reducibility and reoxidizability are key for catalytic reactions. Active sites are 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size influences catalytic properties. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts demonstrates. Reaction pathways are sensitive to the acid-base properties of catalysts, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios, with higher copper content boosting ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve high selectivity and conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation. C-H bond activation forms alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified in MIESR systems. Ethyl radicals' pathway differs from methyl radicals, boosting C2H4 yields in OXD reactions over methane oxidative coupling. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. This underscores the interplay between catalysts, mechanisms, and process optimization in enhancing ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength dictating reactivity and selectivity. Optimizing electronic properties, specifically MO bond strength, enhances process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by curtailing undesired product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene desorption. Reversible OH recombination forms water and reduced Mo centers, which reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models employ a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, influenced by chromium's local structure. Site isolation is key for selectivity, with the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium's environment impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, maintain high selectivity and improved conversions, offering an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, suitable for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Supported catalyst systems and site isolation limit side reactions, control radical formation, and enhance selectivity by preventing radical interactions. These strategies optimize the distribution of active sites, improving overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), CH activation over Cr(III)silica sites is characterized by a high activation energy (~220 kJ mol-1), making it unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. β-hydrogen transfer is crucial for the catalytic cycle. Site isolation influences selectivity, as evidenced by the varying reactivities of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridge configurations.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneity, excel in propane ODH, highlighting their role in process optimization. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Site isolation plays a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors such as composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and basicity that impact catalytic efficiency. The review also investigates active and selective sites, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems crucial for overcoming activation barriers, as highlighted by quote [2]. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways, as noted in quote [3]. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but a common activation site is sought to improve process efficiency, as stated in quote [5]. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation, as mentioned in quote [7]. Site isolation plays a key role in stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx via reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, mirroring trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. The Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies impact ODH and combustion rates. Higher cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH is hindered due to shared CH bond activation sites with alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficacy in CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production by coupling two ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, as demonstrated in recent work.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Despite the difficulty in activating alkanes (Quote 6), their conversion is economically significant due to their large reserves (Quote 1). Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in the selective conversion of alkanes, with acidity and redox properties affecting conversion (Quotes 22, 24, 25). Using N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates (Quote 35), while water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (Quote 39). Site isolation improves selectivity, highlighting the importance of controlling the interaction between the alkane and the catalyst surface (Quote 50).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, are crucial. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Efficient ODH requires careful catalyst selection linked to alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. Acid and basic centers impact olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits high reactivity and mobility with various molecules, influenced by support type and composition. Softer supports ease Cr ion reduction, with the oxide support acting as a ligand to control redox properties. Calcination anchors Cr oxides to the surface, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. Polychromate formation is favored by higher loadings and lower surface areas.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but catalytic behavior is modified by support nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane ODH rates increasing with Mo surface density. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkene production, encounters the hurdle of faster alkene oxidation, compelling low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides exhibit low yields, whereas supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, correlates with the distance between sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which improves with V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Higher temperatures and lower surface areas enhance C2 product selectivity and methane conversion, limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise in achieving high selectivity, addressed through understanding mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing active sites. Active sites, or 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, significantly affect ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species often lead to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation. The dynamic nature of catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, leading to optimized ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by varying Cu/Th ratios. Ethylene and propene selectivity peak at specific copper concentrations, with higher contents boosting ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO with chloride ions achieves high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion, highlighting ODH's efficiency over oxidative coupling. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified in MIESR systems. Site isolation and catalyst choice are critical for selectivity and conversion, as C2H4 yields are more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling, due to the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerating reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, highlighting the interplay between catalysts, mechanisms, and optimization in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follow the Mars-van Krevelen redox model. Two lattice oxygens activate CH bonds, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene, while OH groups recombine to produce water. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and site regeneration with H2 evolution. Chromium site structure significantly impacts the mechanism, with site isolation enhancing selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 catalysts are key in propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, boost activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, serving as an alternative to V-based catalysts with potential for direct propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalyst design, including site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Surface-generated radicals influence pathways and selectivity, with site isolation optimizing the process by restricting reactive sites for intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a potential ODH mechanism, but the high activation energy (~220 kJ mol-1) renders this pathway unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site characteristics, including oxygen bridge variations, play a critical role in reactivity and selectivity, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for enhanced performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. The TMP method boosts catalyst efficiency in propane ODH, demonstrating its importance in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition and reducibility that impact catalytic efficiency. It delves into hydrocarbon activation, active sites, and reaction mechanisms, including kinetic studies, highlighting future trends in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in achieving high selectivity and conversion, as highlighted by industrial and academic researchers. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step, a critical phase in the process. However, the complexity arises from the multitude of possible reaction pathways and steps occurring simultaneously on the adsorbed phase without desorption. The search for a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation is ongoing. The first step of the transformation of the alkane molecule corresponds to an oxidative dehydrogenation, and various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity, conversion, and proposed reaction mechanisms, as well as the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with catalytic functions independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 catalysts show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, affecting π bonding of alkenes, influences propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Higher cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH reactions and alkene combustion occurs on the same sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its allylic CH bond strength compared to propane's weakest CH bond.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often favoring N2O as an oxidant over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, as demonstrated in our recent work.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant yet challenging due to their high stability. Selective conversion of paraffins to various products is crucial for chemical industries, with direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates being an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the first step in transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation, and catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affect selectivity and conversion. Different alkanes require specific catalysts for optimal performance, with chlorine ions critical for high ethene yield. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are crucial for process efficiency. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH reaction performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features, with site isolation aiding selectivity issues. Understanding these factors is essential for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions, highly mobile and reactive to various molecules, exhibit redox behavior dependent on the support type and composition, being more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr ions' redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ can form, influenced by the support type and composition. Chromium oxides anchor onto the surface post-calcination, reacting with hydroxyl groups, with their molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base character, are crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, aiding in understanding support influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. The support's role in vanadium oxide reactivity is significant, with binary dispersed structures affecting reduction and catalytic properties. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing selectivity. Isolated active sites are crucial for efficient alkane ODH, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites boost ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density impacting ODH rates. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. Promising catalysts include MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, surpassing other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, exhibits high selectivity but low conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium boosts selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by temperature and surface area. Higher temperatures and lower surface areas favor C2 selectivities. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Active sites, whether isolated or part of clusters, must facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. The nature of the metal-oxygen bond, influenced by the oxidation state and coordination structure, determines the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of the oxygen ion, affecting the reaction pathway. For instance, nucleophilic oxygen ions interact with C-H bonds, while electrophilic oxygen ions interact with double bonds or aromatic rings. The concept of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial, with the number of atoms constituting these sites affecting catalytic properties. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, related to the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. The right size of active sites is monitored by reactants in catalytic conditions, leading to the optimal ratio of oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively optimize the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at specific copper concentrations. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions enhance C2H4 selectivity, highlighting site isolation's role in selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with ethane reacting faster than methane due to lower C-H bond strength. Challenges include secondary reactions that limit C2H4 yield, with ethane offering higher yields than methane due to distinct radical pathways.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances process efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, significantly improves selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The reaction follows the Mars-van Krevelen redox model, involving CH bond activation, irreversible propene desorption, and reversible OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, aligning with the mechanism that uses two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "Cr(III)silica catalyzes the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes through C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with mechanism sensitivity to chromium's local structure. Site isolation optimizes selectivity, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are key catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr) enhance activity, notably Cr for improved selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence catalytic pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, with a focus on the double oxidation of chromium and the crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex's instability necessitates β-hydrogen transfer, but the high activation energy makes this mechanism unlikely. Site isolation plays a role in selectivity issues, as demonstrated by the reactivity of Cr(III)silica sites with varying oxygen bridges.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, with high surface areas and homogeneities boosting performance. Site isolation, achieved through TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO highlight the role of site isolation in improving reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors such as composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties that impact catalytic efficiency. Special emphasis is placed on hydrocarbon activation, active/selective sites, and detailed analysis of kinetics and mechanisms, culminating in conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. The search for a common activation site for efficient catalysts is ongoing. The first step of alkane transformation involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with various mechanisms proposed for activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species, crucial for understanding the reaction process. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by MoOx and VOx catalysts undergoing reduction-oxidation cycles, shows reaction rates limited by CH bond activation. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events, a finding consistent across various supports and reducible domains, indicating a universal trend in ODH catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show rising activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with declining reaction rates (quote 2). Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion (quote 4). Reducibility and basicity of metal centers explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2; quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) efficiently abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, yielding C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4. Under conventional catalytic conditions, high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion have been achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturates, are economically vital due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturates, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is pivotal for chemical synthesis. Activating alkanes, especially lower ones, is challenging due to their high stability and low reactivity, limiting industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, underlining the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is hindered by stability, leading to non-selective oxidation. Alkanes' high stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducibility for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Vanadium-based catalysts show promise for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance, with Pd's high affinity for H2 enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and mechanisms. Catalyst choice, varying with alkane type, impacts selectivity and conversion. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and acid-base properties affect olefin formation and desorption rates. Site isolation aids selectivity, and reaction conditions, including temperature and contact time, are crucial for process optimization. The nature of the alkane dictates not only reactivity but also the choice of catalyst, with different vanadium species correlating to distinct catalyst behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibit high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules, with redox behavior influenced by support type and composition. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in various oxidation states, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support characteristics. Post-calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are vital for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for supported vanadium oxide catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is altered by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides boosts selectivity and olefin formation. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains uncertain. The catalytic properties of vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, yet the reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (2). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (4), with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH (7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key to achieving high selectivities to ethylene during ethane ODH (8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (9). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, significant for its potential, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism (Quote 9, 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. Niobium enhances selectivity in VNbO catalysts by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature. This novel catalyst system enhances ODH process efficiency by limiting CO and CO2 formation, favoring high C2 selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion. Active sites, including cationic centers for substrate oxidation and dioxygen reduction sites, are crucial. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity. Oxygen ions exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic properties, affecting catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- show acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly influence selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts demonstrate that the size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical for the reaction considered and the support used.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively influence the efficiency of the oxidative dehydrogenation process, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene peak at specific copper concentrations. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts are critical, with optimal ones achieving significant methane conversion and ethane/ethylene selectivity. The process involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are constrained by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chloride ions exemplifies the impact of catalyst choice on selectivity. The C-H bond strength difference influences reaction rates, with faster C2H6 reactions. Initial activation forms alkyl radicals, but subsequent pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals vary, affecting product yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are key, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, especially MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, collectively optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, involving irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, with reversible OH recombination aiding the redox cycle and forming water. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate a mechanism involving C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by optimizing the local structure of chromium surface sites, affecting H transfer and chromium site regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing activity. Redox elements enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting reactive sites for intermediates, thus improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), the mechanism involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites is hindered by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, necessitating formal double oxidation of chromium and the unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex, which requires β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Comparing Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges indirectly reveals the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, excel in propane ODH, enhancing performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, improves selectivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts, offering better control over catalytic site structure. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a role in site isolation, affecting selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, analyzing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact activity and selectivity. The text also covers active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, acknowledged by both industry and academia (Quote 1). Efficient catalysts, notably VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to tackle the activation step, a critical process component (Quote 2). However, achieving high selectivity and conversion remains elusive due to the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways (Quote 3). Despite various proposed mechanisms, no single theory dominates (Quote 4). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote 5). The initial step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 6). Different activation mechanisms have been suggested, including properties like strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species (Quote 7). Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates (Quote 9). The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed reaction mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements offer insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles (Quote 2). Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond (Quote 4). Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy (Quote 10). Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. The UV-visible absorption edge energy correlates with LUMO energy levels and electron affinity, impacting catalytic turnover rates (Quote 20 and 26).", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show that activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx to WOx, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Rates are influenced by CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. Activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion rise with cation acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy and acid-base properties affect alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, complicating selectivity. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH benefits from intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often favoring N2O over O2. Li/MgO shows high activity in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Activating these stable molecules is challenging, as the conditions required can lead to non-selective oxidation, limiting selectivity. Catalysts play a pivotal role, with the affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface being crucial for activation. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, and the use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species promote non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species favor selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducible supports increase activity, with higher reducibility correlating with higher TOF numbers. Site isolation improves selectivity, and the addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene. Understanding the interaction between the alkane and the catalyst surface is essential for efficient alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also affect selectivity and activity. Vanadium-based catalysts, with different vanadium species, show varying behaviors, influenced by the support's nature and additives' basicity. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path, impacting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees influenced by the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are essential for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modify the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. The different catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment modifications, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is due to adsorbed oxygen species. Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active. The support significantly influences reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The presence of acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties. Site isolation is key for addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. Selectivity is correlated with site isolation, highlighting its importance in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures with high selectivity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additions. Niobium's resistance to reduction in VNbO catalysts boosts selectivity by preventing facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion are optimal at elevated temperatures, with lower surface areas enhancing C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, demonstrating a unique approach to ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which play a critical role in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, are crucial for stabilizing specific reactions. The size and nature of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, such as MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, Al2O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of active site size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts reveal [1,15]. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking likely homolytic [16]. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption [17], whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed [18]. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites [19], highlighting the collective impact of these factors on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence efficiency; catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene peak at specific copper contents before declining. Higher copper levels boost ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity stems from Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is due to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation is vital for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions highlight the importance of site isolation for selectivity, achieving high C2H4 yields from C2H6 due to faster reaction rates compared to CH4. The absence of an analogous route to stable products for CH3 radicals from CH4 leads to C2H4 production being more than twice as efficient. Understanding these mechanisms aids in optimizing the process by focusing on catalysts that favor C2H4 production over secondary reactions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and electronic properties affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties, particularly for intermediate MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, which is crucial for high conversion rates. This aligns with mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follow a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids catalyst regeneration, forming water. This mechanism supports high selectivity and conversion, addressing process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization, by influencing the local structure of chromium sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, offer a stable system for optimization, retaining high selectivity at improved conversions. As an alternative to V-based catalysts, NiCo molybdate shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially improving selectivity and affecting the distribution of active sites, crucial for overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites is a key mechanism with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it less favorable for dehydrogenation. The unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed requires β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle to proceed. Site isolation plays a role in selectivity, though its detailed impact is not explicitly discussed. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges highlight reactivity differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, notably in propane ODH, are effective due to their high surface areas and homogeneity. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is critical for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity, and improving process efficiency. This strategy optimizes catalytic site structure, generating site-isolated catalysts that influence the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a key role in site isolation, essential for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that impact catalytic efficiency. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, and detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms are discussed, including hydrocarbon activation and factors governing efficiency. This comprehensive analysis aims to optimize the process by addressing activity and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion issues arise from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, have been proposed. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts' properties, such as p-type semiconductivity, influence the reaction mechanism. For instance, ZrP2O7 and TiP2O7, under air, are p-type semiconductors, abstracting hydrogen to activate alkanes. Upon contact with n-butane, they become n-type, affecting the reaction pathway. VSbO catalysts, containing VSbO4, undergo redox cycles, transforming from n-type to p-type semiconductors under propane, impacting catalytic activity. Efficient alkene oxidation requires specific properties not found in typical species, suggesting a role for structure defects. Surface dynamics and collective properties of the solid are crucial for a complete understanding of the reaction process. Electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts in light alkane selective oxidation. Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes. The more probable catalytic site involves two hydrogens abstraction with the formation of two hydroxyls groups and the transfer of one electron from the hydrocarbon to a vanadium cation. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested. Dopants, like Co, influence the VPO catalysts' properties, maintaining a higher surface distribution of V, P, and O atoms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can design materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies, associated with lower LUMO states, lead to higher ODH turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion follow the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) influences activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies determine relative rates, with CH bond activation in ODH requiring the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selectivity. Propene's reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Metal reducibility and oxygen basicity correlate with catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2), essential for selective ODH. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility optimize ODH rates and k2/k1, k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to valuable chemicals faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as a potent catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, yielding C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4 in high yields under standard catalytic conditions, addressing the challenge of low yields in methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves (Quote 1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics and oxygenates is essential for chemical synthesis (Quote 2). Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (Quote 4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (Quote 5). Paraffin activation is challenging due to their high stability, impacting selectivity (Quote 6). Alkane stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step (Quote 7). Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation (Quote 11). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants (Quote 12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation (Quote 14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (Quote 16). Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates (Quote 19). Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect (Quote 20). Reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (Quote 21). Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion (Quote 23). Site isolation improves selectivity (Quote 50). Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity (Quote 24). Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance (Quote 25). Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (Quote 26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, significantly impact selectivity and activity, which depend on the type of alkane and reaction conditions. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, are crucial for process efficiency. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are essential for achieving high ethene yield. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions to optimize ODH efficiency, as the nature of alkane influences both reactivity and catalyst choice.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibit high mobility and reactivity towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Their redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. These factors are critical in optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports' acid-base character, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base properties, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are key active and selective sites. Supported vanadium oxides offer enhanced mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides boosts selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Active site nature and selective sites in ODH reactions remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, with COx formation in ethane ODH primarily due to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric. The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, crucial for efficient catalyst design. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, impacting electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is pivotal but encounters the issue of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides, like V2O5, are employed but exhibit low yields (Quote 4), whereas supported systems offer superior activity and selectivity (Quote 5). Various systems display high selectivities, with CH bond activation as the rate-determining step (Quote 6, 7). High temperatures are required, favoring gas phase reactions (Quote 8). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction (Quote 9, 10). Selectivity is linked to site distance, underscoring the significance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a certain point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This novel Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation state metal ions, offers a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves complex mechanisms including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, presenting challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Catalysts, such as bulk metal oxides and supported systems, are crucial. Active sites, including cationic sites for substrate oxidation and sites for dioxygen reduction, are essential. The interplay between these factors influences process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, influence oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios, with higher copper content enhancing ethane conversion but possibly inhibiting ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, optimizes selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, yielding 58% efficiency. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with CH3 and C2H5 radicals coupling differently in the presence of O2. C2H4 yields from OXD are twice those from methane coupling, due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity optimization, as the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength, enhances ODH efficiency for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, significantly improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds, forming propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption. Site isolation improves selectivity, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models exemplify catalysts that activate C-H bonds, form M-alkyl intermediates, and abstract 2H, with site isolation enhancing selectivity by optimizing the local structure around chromium, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are key catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity. These catalysts are alternatives to V-based systems for light paraffin activation, promising for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals are pivotal, affecting reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and managing radical interactions. Site isolation optimizes active site distribution, preventing undesired reactions by restricting access to certain intermediates, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis highlights CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, with high activation energy hindering dehydrogenation. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is crucial for enhancing selectivity, as evidenced by comparing Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges to the silica surface.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities, achieved through methods like TMP, optimize propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation strategies, such as introducing isolated catalytic centers on oxide supports, refine site structure, enhancing selectivity and impacting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems including unsupported and supported types, and promoters. It discusses factors impacting activity and selectivity, such as composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity. The nature of active sites and their role in the process is explored, with a detailed look at reaction mechanisms. Key conclusions and future trends are summarized, offering insights into optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by researchers (Quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, like VPO or VSbO-based systems, are crucial for overcoming the activation step (Quote [2]). The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the multitude of possible reaction pathways (Quote [3]). Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out (Quote [4]). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote [5]). The first step in the transformation of the alkane molecule involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote [6]). Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes (Quote [7]). Achieving high selectivity and conversion is a major focus, influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Turnover rates are influenced by the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons, correlating with LMCT energies. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity (V5+, Mo6+, W6+) dictates ODH pathways, with increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. CH bond activation in alkane ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion reveal different transition state structures, with the apparent activation energy for propane ODH being the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations, indicating that selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to valuable chemicals faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves, making their conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules crucial for chemical production. The activation of alkanes is challenging, particularly for lower alkanes, due to their high stability, which has historically hindered their industrial use. However, direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenates presents a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is particularly difficult due to their high stability, which can limit selectivity. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with the cleavage of the CH bond being the initial step in their transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, whereas secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating the activation of C3 hydrocarbons. The affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface is crucial for CH bond activation, influencing selectivity. Catalyst reactivity determines the rate at which surface intermediates react. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing activation sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for the formation of C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. The presence of water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts the turnover frequency (TOF). Acid-base and redox properties significantly affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. The addition of niobia modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity. The stability of supported vanadium oxide catalysts is a critical factor. Acidic properties of oxides depend on cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing acidity. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may be due to differences in bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, whose effectiveness varies with alkane type. Selectivity and conversion are determined by mechanisms including C-H bond activation. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Catalyst choice and reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, are critical for process efficiency. Acid-base properties and oxygen type impact ODH performance. Understanding these factors optimizes the ODH process, as the nature of alkane influences not only reactivity but also catalyst selection. Reaction conditions significantly affect selectivity and activity, necessitating careful consideration of feed mixture, temperature, and contact time.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting C2-C4 alkanes' catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites, while surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    