Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, but optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The use of N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can significantly affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Incorporating high vanadium contents in hosting structures can sometimes lead to structural instability. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane ODH rates increasing with Mo surface density up to a certain point. The size of MoOx domains affects the Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, specifically ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane conversion. Niobium oxide, while low in propane conversion, exhibits high selectivity, which is enhanced by the addition of V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity, crucial for preventing low selectivity in these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to optimal temperatures. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities, avoiding CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offers a novel approach to optimizing oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Active sites, crucial for stabilizing reactions, enhance selectivity when isolated. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts greatly influence catalytic properties, is a key concept. Supported systems, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, exhibit different catalytic behaviors based on the support's nature, affecting the size and properties of active sites. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often show acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species exhibit better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts demonstrates. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites' number in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene, peaking at optimal ratios. Ethane conversion is enhanced at higher copper contents, potentially due to CuO crystallites affecting ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity is linked to specific copper(II) sites, while propane conversion is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is associated with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by managing active site distribution, is pivotal for optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions are efficient, achieving high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxide surfaces, forming alkyl radicals. For CH4, the pathway in the presence of O2 leads to ethane and ethylene, while for C2H6, it leads to higher C2H4 yields. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 results in faster reaction rates and higher C2H4 yields compared to CH4 oxidative coupling.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal for selective oxidation, with MO bond strength and energy gap affecting reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties enhances selectivity and conversion. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding undesired products, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation occurs using lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and water formation from reversible OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through irreversible O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models activate C-H bonds, transfer H, and regenerate sites, with mechanisms sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, making them a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by curbing side reactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, a mechanism with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it less favorable for dehydrogenation. The reactivity of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, highlights the role of site characteristics in the process, emphasizing the importance of site isolation for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, enhanced by site isolation techniques like TMP, which improve selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. Challenges include achieving high conversion and selectivity, influenced by C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation, by introducing isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, affects the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, addressing selectivity issues. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO impact well-defined iron sites in selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It delves into hydrocarbon activation and the factors that govern catalytic efficiency, encompassing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions impacting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, culminating in insights on future trends. This comprehensive analysis addresses the interplay between catalysts, challenges, and mechanisms in optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as noted by researchers (Quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step (Quote [2]). However, achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways (Quote [3]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote [6]), with various activation mechanisms proposed (Quote [7]). Selectivity issues can be addressed by site isolation, stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species (Quote [15]). The involvement of lattice oxygen in the activation process has been confirmed (Quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as observed for VOx, MoOx, and RuOx domains. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends on electron transfer to the cluster, influenced by the LUMO energy level. Quantum confinement effects enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting lower activation energies and higher rates than MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity, increasing from V5+ to W6+, correlates with activation energy differences. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH shares sites with alkene combustion, affecting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its allylic CH bond strength. Catalyst properties significantly influence ODH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to valuable chemicals faces low yield challenges, sometimes favoring N2O over O2. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. These radicals couple to produce C2 compounds, significantly enhancing yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The high stability of alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, poses a challenge for industrial processes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is more difficult due to their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with the alkane surface is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility results in higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with alkane nature affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids selectivity issues. Efficiency is collectively influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging (Quote 3). Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield (Quote 12). Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with redox behavior influenced by the support type. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, various Cr states are present, depending on support composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character significantly impacts vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' performance is affected by the support (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6), enhancing selectivity when both acid and redox sites are present (Quote 8). Site isolation is crucial for high selectivity (Quote 7). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11). These factors collectively influence ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates and 1-alkene formation via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts, which exhibit superior activity and selectivity over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide demonstrates high selectivity for propane ODH, with conversion enhanced by incorporating V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction stabilizes vanadium sites, promoting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, enhanced by higher temperatures up to 700°C and lower surface areas, which limit CO and CO2 formation, favoring C2 selectivity. The Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation states, offers a novel approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Active sites, their size, and electronic properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Structure sensitivity and the size of active sites, as seen in MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts, are critical for catalytic selectivity and activity. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. For instance, in doped vanadyl pyrophosphates, the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedure, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation produces a propyl radical, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures promoting surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with rising copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity for ethylene and propene at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene is linked to copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active sites, addressing the question on catalysts, challenges, mechanisms, and process optimization in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The process involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with ethane production mainly from CH3 radical coupling. Catalysts, like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, play a critical role in optimization. Ethane's OXD yields C2H4 more efficiently than methane due to distinct radical pathways, highlighting the importance of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength crucial for selective oxidation. Optimizing this bond enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with the reaction mechanism following the Mars-van Krevelen redox model. Two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, leading to propene desorption. Site isolation plays a crucial role in selectivity, as reduced Mo centers reoxidize by O2 chemisorption, recombining the remaining OH group to form water. This highlights the importance of site isolation in achieving high selectivity in the dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with efficiency sensitive to the local structure around chromium. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, highlighting the catalyst structure's role in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with redox elements like Cr enhancing activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdate systems provide a stable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically prevents undesired reactions and restricts reactive sites for certain intermediates, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica surface sites are explored as catalysts, with CH activation by oxidative addition considered an unlikely mechanism due to high activation energy. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, notably those with high surface areas achieved through methods like TMP, are effective. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, enhances the performance of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy significantly improves selectivity and efficiency in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting bulk and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties that influence catalytic efficiency. It delves into hydrocarbon activation, active sites, and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, summarizing kinetic studies and future trends. Site isolation's role in enhancing selectivity is emphasized.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a significant challenge in catalysis, with selectivity and conversion issues. Efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems are crucial, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple reaction pathways, with no single mechanism universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, involving oxidative dehydrogenation as the first step. Different mechanisms have been proposed, including the role of specific sites with unique properties, stabilizing intermediates and aiding selectivity. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity, conversion, and proposed mechanisms. The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by residence time, proceeds via reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates correlate with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps. The metal's identity and the support's reducibility significantly influence LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing rates. Lewis acidity impacts ODH and combustion rates, influenced by adsorption enthalpies. Activation energy differences between ODH and combustion rise with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy, entropy, and acid-base properties affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, limiting selective strategies. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. ODH on WOx/ZrO2 parallels Mo oxides. Activation energy for ODH is the sum of adsorption and transition state enthalpies. Lower activation energy for combustion vs. dehydrogenation influences k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 aligns with cation Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH needs intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent lab findings highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically valuable due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis, yet the high stability of alkanes hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation, and the reactivity of the catalyst determines how fast surface intermediates react. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. The initial C-H bond activation by the catalyst is critical. Acid/base features of oxides depend on cation charge and radius, affecting acidity. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are influenced by bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal efficiency. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support play critical roles in the acid and basic center formation, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates. Determining a molecular mechanism is challenging and requires advanced techniques, while kinetic models are crucial for analyzing experimental data.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for selective catalyst development. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the influence of the support. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic properties. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, and additives like P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties. The support affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with binary dispersed structures and the presence of both acid and redox sites, as in VCoAPO-18, key for high selectivity to ethylene and propylene. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties. Understanding these factors optimizes ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Catalysts such as MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts excel in ethane conversion, surpassing other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, further enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost vanadium site selectivity by resisting reduction, preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, showcasing the Li/MgO system as a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to intricate reaction mechanisms involving C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Oxygen species transfer and the interplay between different active sites are essential for process efficiency. Site isolation facilitates the stabilization of active sites that favor desired reactions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, as demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts, requires BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and the number of such sites in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts significantly influence activity and selectivity. Higher copper concentration in thoria enhances catalytic activity, with selectivity for ethylene and propene peaking at specific ratios before declining. Increased copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, surface Cu 2+ ions drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation, by controlling the distribution of active sites, is crucial for optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, metal oxides catalyze the process, achieving significant conversion and selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues. Ethane OXD, facilitated by effective catalysts, shows higher C2H4 yields due to the dominance of C2H5 + O2 reactions. Catalyst choice is crucial, as shown by a Li/MgO catalyst achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, impacting ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength dictating reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands affects electron transfer, crucial for catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength at intermediate levels boosts selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers are reoxidized via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids the redox cycle, forming water. This mechanism optimizes process efficiency by addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, highlighting the significance of site isolation in achieving high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction, crucial for ethene production. Site isolation enhances selectivity, impacting process efficiency, as the structure of chromium sites significantly influences the mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr for high selectivity, making them alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. This system has potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity. Active site distribution, influenced by catalyst design, impacts selectivity by limiting reactive sites for intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving CH activation, is inefficient due to a high activation energy and the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites for reactivity indirectly addresses selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others due to high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, optimizes catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity and controlling reactivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and at catalyst support interfaces. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO facilitate the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, addressing selectivity issues and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms as alternatives to direct dehydrogenation. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties that govern catalytic efficiency. Analysis of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies, offers insights into reaction mechanisms, outlining future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step (Quote 1). Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of possible reaction pathways (Quote 3). Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, yet no single mechanism is universally accepted (Quote 4). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote 5). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species (Quote 7). Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues (Quote 9). Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the active oxygen species and characterize structure defects (Quote 11). The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves primary and secondary reactions. MoOx and VOx catalysts, undergoing reduction-oxidation cycles, have reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as observed in Fig. 12. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition, as evidenced by the similarity in reactivity between MoOx and VOx domains when dispersed under controlled conditions. These trends are consistent across various supports and reducible oxides, indicating a universal mechanism for ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Higher Lewis acidity leads to greater differences in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies influence relative rates. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility being essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenges in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation, though challenging due to their high stability, is economically significant for conversion into various chemical products. Selective paraffin conversion is crucial but hindered by the difficulty in activating these stable hydrocarbons. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates offers an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing ethylene selectivity. Doping with Te and Pd affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance, with Pd's high affinity for H2 explaining high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, as shown by the nature of alkane influencing reactivity and catalyst selection (Quote 5). Site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Kinetic models and molecular mechanisms are essential for understanding the reaction, with vanadium-based catalysts showing varied behavior (Quote 16). Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield (Quote 12), while ethoxide ions decompose to olefins or further to CO and CO2. Catalysts' acid-base character affects olefin formation and desorption rates (Quote 18). Reaction conditions also play a significant role in selectivity and activity of catalytic systems (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions display high reactivity and mobility with various molecules on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with similar surface chemistry. Their redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Chromium oxides anchor to the surface post-calcination, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state, and presence of acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxide shows enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation is crucial in efficient catalyst design, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx structure and properties, influencing CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkane-to-alkene conversion, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. Promising catalysts include MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, impacting dehydrogenation vs oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, Mo enhances activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with peak selectivity and conversion at 700°C. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, preventing CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, lacking variable oxidation state metals, optimizes the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding mechanisms such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, stabilize desired reactions over side reactions, impacting selectivity and conversion. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by lattice oxygen mobility and wetting effects, is essential for understanding their functioning. Site isolation and the right size of active sites are monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, leading to optimized VS+/V4+ ratios and enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, as demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts by Moro-oka and Ueda, requires BrSnsted acid sites for selectivity. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed, impacting process efficiency. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence activity and selectivity; higher copper content in thoria boosts catalytic activity but affects selectivity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO achieve high selectivity and conversion, with C-H bond activation and free-radical chemistry as key mechanisms. Ethane production via CH3 radical coupling is limited by secondary reactions, impacting process efficiency. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation yields more C2H4 than methane oxidative coupling due to distinct pathways for radicals in the presence of O2. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 results in faster reaction rates, influencing process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides catalyze reactions, with OH bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength for intermediate levels boosts selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts utilize a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination yields water, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges to optimize process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, particularly ethane over Cr(III)silica, a three-step mechanism is observed: C-H bond activation, H transfer to release ethene, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization. The efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer a stable system for optimization, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, optimizing active site distribution and selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are pivotal in managing reactive site availability, preventing unwanted side reactions and improving overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparing Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges reveals differences in reactivity. Site isolation may influence selectivity by affecting surface site reactivity, impacting the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, enhancing process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, impacting the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by defining metal atom arrangement and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The text delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends. Emphasis is placed on hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, as noted in [1] and [2].", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, are crucial for overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple possible reaction pathways, each with several steps occurring on the adsorbed phase. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been proposed. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge, and efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible pathways. The goal is to propose a common activation site to several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles affecting lattice oxygen atoms, is rate-limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting ODH efficiency. These trends are consistent across various supports and are crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 exhibit rising activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with declining reaction rates. Lewis acidity, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies impact ODH and combustion rates. Activation energy differences between ODH and combustion increase with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy and acid-base properties affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, limiting selective strategies. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. ODH mechanisms on WOx/ZrO2 mirror MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption and transition state formation enthalpies. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, influencing k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with cation Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) demonstrates high activity for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenges of selectivity and conversion in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to various chemical products is challenging due to their low reactivity, which has preserved them over time but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity as products may readily oxidize. The CH bond's cleavage is crucial, with secondary and tertiary carbons being more reactive. Catalyst affinity with the hydrocarbon surface promotes activation and determines selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability are also crucial. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity, with niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts enhancing redox properties and selectivity to ethylene. The oxidation state of vanadium, promoted by Te or Pd, affects performance. The affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process, where site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Efficiency is impacted by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features, with chlorine ions critical for high ethene yield and acid-base character influencing olefin formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, and the oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes, increasing olefin formation. VMgO, V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves show high selectivity. Active and selective sites remain under investigation. Monolayer systems help optimize active site dispersion and understand support influence. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts, sees supported metal oxides' performance tied to metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, impacting catalytic properties. COx formation in ethane ODH originates from adsorbed oxygen species. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate vanadium oxide loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures influence the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are pivotal for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives modify MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity by preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers to form methyl radicals that couple to ethane, which can be further oxidized to ethylene. High C2 selectivities and conversions are favored at elevated temperatures, with low surface areas directing CH3 towards O2- ions, yielding CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are linked to intricate mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, enhance selectivity by stabilizing desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2 exhibit different catalytic properties depending on the support and active component loading. Monomeric species often show acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species display better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is crucial for understanding their functioning. Characterization techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can help in understanding the structure of active sites on the surface, which is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, critical for ODH efficiency, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalyst studies demonstrate. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts impact catalytic activity and selectivity. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts activity but selectivity peaks at specific ratios. Increased copper content enhances ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene is linked to copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface and selectivity in propene to substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO boost selectivity, highlighting site isolation's role. C-H bond activation forms alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified. C2H4 yields from ethane are higher than from methane, influenced by bond strength. Challenges include secondary reactions, underscoring the need for optimized catalysts to enhance selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength for selective oxidation enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, improves selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, CH bond activation is irreversible, leading to propene formation, while OH recombination steps are reversible. This aligns with the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where lattice oxygens activate CH bonds, facilitating propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, highlighting the catalyst's role in process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate C-H bond activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation optimizes selectivity, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer a stable system for optimization, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. As an alternative to V-based catalysts, NiCo molybdate enables direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, is pivotal for controlling radical formation and enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired radical interactions, optimizing the process by restricting certain intermediates from accessing reactive sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) via CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored, requiring a double oxidation of chromium and a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely dehydrogenation route. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges reveal the significance of site properties in mechanism efficiency, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for enhanced performance. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, boosting selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Site isolation affects reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms, playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity on activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites and kinetic studies are analyzed, providing insights into the hydrocarbon activation process. The review concludes with future trends in ODH of alkanes, integrating key factors for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to multiple reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally accepted. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including sites with specific properties. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms to overcome the activation step. The primary activation of n-butane involves rupture of a methylene CH bond. Lattice oxygen is involved in the activation process. The role of superoxide or peroxo species has been proposed, but they should not be stable in the presence of the alkane. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested from thermodynamic considerations. The VSbO catalysts contain several phases, but the active phase is VSbO4. Its structure is derived from TiO2 rutile-type, with redox properties studied by electrical conductivity measurements. The solid becomes a p-type semiconductor after reduction under propane. The active catalytic site at the surface of the vanadium antimonate could correspond to isolated vanadium species neighboring a cationic vacancy, inducing the stabilization of O) species for alkane activation. The M1 phase, with a network of MO6 octahedra, has vanadium sites that undergo charge transfer leading to a surface O) for H abstraction from the alkane molecule.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 catalysts show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. The Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) significantly impacts activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energy differences, influenced by cation Lewis acidity, dictate relative reaction rates. Selective ODH is hindered by shared sites required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenges of selectivity and conversion in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being more challenging to activate than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for the chemical industry. The direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly affects performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is harder due to their high stability, which limits selectivity. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation, and catalyst reactivity, along with hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, determines selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd promote different oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness with different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are crucial for selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. Acid and basic centers depend on the support and additive basicity, influencing olefin formation and desorption rates. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues, and catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows similar chemistry, with mobile Cr ions reactive toward alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reduction, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are influenced by support type and composition. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic states ([1]). COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species ([3]), with lower vanadium reduction than stoichiometric levels ([2]). Support impacts vanadium oxide reactivity ([4]), and binary structures affect VOx domains ([5]). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties ([6]), and site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design ([7]). Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 boost ethylene selectivity ([8]). Most catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones ([9]). Ethane CH bond activation leads to alkoxide formation, decomposing to ethylene or oxidizing to oxygenates ([10]). Alkali additives alter MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties ([11]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, critical for high selectivity at low conversions, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation. Supported catalysts outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5 in activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation, the rate-determining step, suggests Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, correlates with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene, niobium oxide shows high selectivity but low conversion. Adding V, Cr, or Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction compared to vanadium enhances selectivity by preventing facile reduction, which can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature, while lower surface areas limit CO and CO2 formation, favoring high C2 selectivities. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) process employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are pivotal. Active sites, such as cationic sites for substrate oxidation and sites for dioxygen reduction, must facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. Site isolation is essential for stabilizing specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Understanding these factors is crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by studies on MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity for ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, controlling active sites' distribution, is crucial for selectivity, as evidenced by studies showing increased catalytic activity and selectivity at certain Cu/Th ratios.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions boost C2H6 conversion and C2H4 selectivity, underscoring site isolation's role in selectivity. Alkyl radicals form during initial activation, with C2H5 radicals confirmed by MIESR. Pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, with C2H4 yields exceeding CH4 yields due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. C2H6's weaker C-H bond leads to faster reaction rates, aiding process optimization for higher selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties enhances ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products, thus optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts primarily yields propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, utilizing lattice oxygens for irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III) on silica models facilitate C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure around chromium. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization, as the reaction progresses through C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhancing activity, particularly Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity and efficiency by limiting side reactions. Site isolation, by managing radical interactions and active site distribution, prevents unwanted reactions, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis reveals that CH activation over Cr(III)silica, though proposed, is unlikely due to high activation energy, highlighting the need for optimized catalyst design. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, is emphasized as a solution to the challenges in achieving high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, particularly in propane ODH, demonstrate high performance due to high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity, as seen in the TMP method, which yields high-performance catalysts. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a pivotal role in site isolation, affecting the reactivities of materials such as bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems including unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors impacting activity and selectivity. It discusses catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The review also analyzes the nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, concluding with future trends in the field, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with multiple pathways, presenting a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis (Quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, are crucial for overcoming the activation step (Quote [2]). The search for such catalysts is a promising but difficult area of research (Quote [1]). The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways (Quote [3]), with various activation mechanisms proposed (Quote [7]). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote [5]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote [6]). Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues (Quote [20]). The role of superoxide or peroxo species has been proposed (Quote [22]), but they should not be stable in the presence of the alkane (Quote [23]). The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested (Quote [24]). The activation of the first CH bond of an alkane involves very reactive oxygen that is weakly bound (Quote [25]). Weakly bound surface O) can promote CC cleavage and total oxidation (Quote [26]). Dopants influence the catalytic properties of VPO catalysts (Quote [28]). The two most efficient catalysts, ZrP2O7 and TiP2O7, are p-type semiconductors under air (Quote [30]). They become n-type when contacted with n-butane (Quote [31]). The alkane activation can be related to the p-type semi-conducting properties of the solids (Quote [33]). The VSbO catalysts contain several phases, with the active phase being VSbO4 (Quote [41]). Its structure is derived from TiO2 rutile-type (Quote [42]). The redox properties of the VSbO4 phase have been studied (Quote [43]). This phase is an n-type semiconductor (Quote [44]). The existence of such irreversible change is supported by the fact that after the first reduction, the solid undergoes redox cycles that are not reversible (Quote [46]). The active catalytic site at the surface of the vanadium antimonate could correspond to isolated vanadium species neighboring a cationic vacancy (Quote [49]). Such arrangement should induce the stabilization of O) species allowing the activation of the alkane molecule (Quote [50]). The structure of the active M1 phase has been solved (Quote [51]). It corresponds to a network of MO6 octahedra (Quote [52]). The heptagonal channels are empty, and the hexagonal channels are occupied by tellurium or antimony cations and oxides (Quote [53]). The activation of the alkane molecule occurred on the vanadium sites located in M7 position in the structure (Quote [54]). The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion issues, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various supports and oxygenates, indicating the importance of domain size and electronic properties in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity shapes pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely impacting reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, influencing propane ODH and propene combustion rates. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, limiting selective strategies. Propene's higher reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion correlate with Lewis acid strength (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH demands intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production by coupling two ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation, is driven by their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence V oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Kinetic models and molecular mechanisms are essential for understanding the reaction, with chlorine ions playing a key role in ethene yield. Catalysts' active center coordination and environment affect the reaction path, and vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species. The nature of the support and additives influences acid and basic centers, impacting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits versatile reactivity and mobility with various molecules, including alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water, on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves. Its redox behavior is influenced by the support type, with easier reduction on chemically softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. This chemistry is consistent across different surfaces, highlighting the role of support properties in controlling redox behavior and surface interactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character impacts vanadium dispersion and species, affecting C2-C4 alkane catalysis. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Surface vanadium oxide's coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites are pivotal for catalysis. Supported metal oxides offer benefits but their behavior is influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides boosts selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, enhancing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides exhibit high olefin selectivity, while V-containing molecular sieves are selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains a topic of discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the support, yet the ODH mechanism and selective sites are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    