Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including supported metal oxides, where the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties are critical (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' performance in alkane ODH is affected by the support (Quote 4), and the formation of binary dispersed structures can alter their reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify the acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts (Quote 7), as seen in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which improves with added V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, effectively producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, leading to C2 products. Higher temperatures up to about 700°C enhance selectivity and conversion. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, single crystal MoO3 samples with different faces exhibit varying activity and selectivity in olefin oxidation, highlighting the importance of surface structure. Similarly, the size of polyvanadate species affects the catalytic selectivity in o-xylene oxidation to phthalic anhydride. These examples illustrate how the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions and the right size of active sites are crucial for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond breaking is homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and the number of such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation is key for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts play a pivotal role, with the best ones achieving 20% methane conversion and 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxide surfaces and radical chemistry in the gas phase. Ethane production is mainly through CH3 radical coupling. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. Ethane ODH shows higher C2H4 yields than methane oxidative coupling due to different radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of catalyst choice. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the impact of substrate on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing the MO bond strength to intermediate levels enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, impacting process efficiency. The reaction proceeds through C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with H2 evolution.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by controlling radical-radical interactions and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thus impacting the distribution of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, results in the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, highlight the role of site isolation in selectivity, although this concept is not explicitly discussed.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, particularly in propane ODH. High surface areas and homogeneities in catalysts enhance performance in heterogeneous processes. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, influences selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, improving propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation is pivotal in the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting hydrocarbon selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights the activation of hydrocarbons and factors influencing catalytic efficiency. The text covers various catalysts, including unsupported and supported types, and promoters. Key factors affecting catalytic efficiency, such as composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties, are discussed. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, are analyzed. Conclusions and future trends in the field are summarized, providing a comprehensive analysis of the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms. [Quote 1] highlights the difficulty and promise of finding catalysts for light alkane oxidation. [Quote 2] emphasizes the importance of efficient catalysts in overcoming activation barriers. [Quote 3] underscores the complexity arising from multiple reaction pathways. [Quote 5] aims to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. [Quote 7] reviews the proposed mechanisms for light alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly affects ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, and decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion increase with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties of oxides and supports, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires the same sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling. We've achieved high C2 compound yields from methane under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their large reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which makes their activation difficult. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te and Pd doping influence vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst bulk reduction vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule impact activity and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms such as C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation aids selectivity. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. Ethoxide ions decompose to ethene or further oxidize. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect ODH paths. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, influenced by support and additive basicity. Olefin formation and desorption depend on catalyst acid-base character. Optimizing conditions like feed mixture, temperature, and contact time enhances selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reduction, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure dictated by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character of catalysts, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' advantages include higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. However, the nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state of metal cations. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. Additives like P, K, Ca, and alkali metals modify acid-base and redox properties, influencing selectivity and activity. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where the presence of both acid and redox sites enhances selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, impacting electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Various bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides for ethane conversion. Niobium oxide, though low in conversion, shows high selectivity for propane to propylene, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve selectivity by preventing facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2, exhibit different catalytic properties depending on the loading and the nature of the support, with monomeric species favoring acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by lattice oxygen mobility and wetting effects, is crucial for understanding their functioning and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways vary in sensitivity to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. The initial activation step for CH4 and C2H6 is the formation of alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. Methyl and ethyl radicals follow different pathways, with C2H4 yields from OXD being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6, lower than in CH4, results in faster reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in selective oxidation, with the MO bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these electronic properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective catalysis. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in catalyst regeneration. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation of ethane forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. Site isolation impacts selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr. Notably, Cr retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdate systems a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a critical role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired side reactions by restricting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thus enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored, with a high computed activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making this pathway unlikely. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for reactivity in materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting the spatial arrangement of metal atoms on the surface. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and factors influencing catalytic efficiency, covering both unsupported and supported catalysts. Key aspects like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties are analyzed, along with the nature of active and selective sites. Detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are discussed. Conclusions and future trends in the field are summarized.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems crucial for alkane activation. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by the effects of residence time on alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the ability of larger domains to accept electron density. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates. These trends are consistent across various supports and reducible oxides, indicating a universal mechanism for ODH catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, influencing propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields at higher temperatures. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with some processes using N2O over O2. Recent findings show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4 to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to C2 compound production via radical coupling. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high C2 compound yields from CH4 conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their low reactivity, drives research into their selective conversion to valuable products. Challenges include the high stability of alkanes, which makes their activation harder than for unsaturated hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, play a crucial role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation improving selectivity. The activation of alkanes requires an affinity between the hydrocarbon and the catalyst surface, influenced by the catalyst's reactivity and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species. Molecular oxygen activation demands reducible oxides, with non-reducible oxides needing dopants. The use of N2O enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with niobia-modified vanadia titania catalysts increasing selectivity to ethylene. The presence of Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. The initial activation of the C-H bond by the catalyst is critical, with the surface acid/base features of oxides depending on the cation's charge and radius.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by the nature of the alkane, catalyst type, reaction conditions, and specific alkane features. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by these factors, with catalyst selection linked to alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in multiple oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites playing significant roles. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity and olefin formation rate. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity in ODH reactions. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties linked to V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes ODH are still under investigation, with ongoing efforts to understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including supported metal oxides, where the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties affect performance (Quote 1). In ethane ODH, COx formation is mainly due to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (Quote 2). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective (Quote 4). The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9). The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane ODH, targeting propylene production, benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives without sacrificing activity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Key mechanisms include C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, collectively impacting process efficiency. Site isolation is pivotal, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size and properties significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions, with smaller, isolated sites often enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. C-H bond breaking is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively enhance the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Increased copper concentration boosts catalytic activity, with ethylene and propene selectivity peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation is key for selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane is produced by coupling CH3 radicals, with C2H4 and C2H6 yields limited by secondary reactions. Ethane ODH yields more C2H4 than methane coupling due to different pathways for radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. CH bond activation in propane is irreversible, leading to propene desorption. The remaining OH group recombines with neighboring OH groups to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize by irreversible O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation of ethane, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. Site isolation is critical for addressing selectivity issues, as the reaction mechanism is sensitive to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and yields. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for retaining high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are crucial in preventing certain intermediates from accessing reactive sites, thus optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential ODH mechanism over Cr(III)silica, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unstable, requiring β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. With a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, suggest site isolation influences reactivity, indirectly addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. TMP method-produced catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities boost propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, influences reactivity by managing metal atoms' spatial arrangement. Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO support materials and well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation highlight site isolation's role in reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and surface basicity. The text also delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and characterize structure defects, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [Quote 2] highlights the efficiency of VPO or VSbO-based systems, [Quote 3] emphasizes the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions, and [Quote 5] suggests a common activation site for efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize materials for catalytic functions beyond chemical composition. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with LUMO energy decreases, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, affecting ODH and combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion. Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation sites are shared between ODH and combustion, hindering selective poisoning for yield improvement. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. Activation energy for ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields at higher temperatures. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though economically significant due to their large reserves, are difficult to activate compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues as products may oxidize under activation conditions. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation. Catalyst affinity with the hydrocarbon surface is crucial for CH bond activation, influencing selectivity, which is also determined by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducibility for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances C2-oxygenate selectivity, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, affecting activity dramatically. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers, but not necessarily with the oxidation state under reaction conditions. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, explaining different performances after doping. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in connecting activity and reducibility may be due to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane type. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is determined by the interplay of these factors, with catalyst selection critical for specific alkanes and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions and ethoxide ions play key roles in ethene yield and olefinic intermediate formation, respectively. The coordination number and environment of the active center influence the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the support's nature affects the formation of acid and basic centers.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimized VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Selectivity to propylene increases with higher surface reduction. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives modify MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to a point. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are linked to the intricate mechanisms of C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with cationic sites oxidizing the substrate and dioxygen reduction sites facilitating the reaction. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, as it stabilizes specific active sites that favor desired reactions. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts greatly impact the reaction, is a key concept. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions, highlighting the importance of understanding and controlling these factors for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors, including redox equilibria, collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is crucial for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, the activation of alkanes on metal oxide surfaces and subsequent free-radical chemistry in the gas phase are key. Methane and ethane conversion to ethane and ethylene, respectively, involves the formation of alkyl radicals. CH3 radicals couple in the gas phase to produce ethane, while C2H5 radicals undergo different pathways, leading to higher C2H4 yields in OXD than in methane oxidative coupling. Catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion, demonstrating the role of site isolation in selectivity. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 compared to CH4 results in faster reaction rates and greater conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, is key to selective oxidation. Site isolation can enhance selectivity by preventing secondary reactions, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The reaction mechanism, consistent with the Mars-van Krevelen redox model, involves irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and water formation through OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium sites, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. The process consists of C-H bond activation, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and H2 evolution for site regeneration. The mechanism's sensitivity to the chromium site structure highlights the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in catalytic reactions, influencing pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions and restricts reactive sites for certain intermediates, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, but the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, are compared, hinting at the role of site isolation in selectivity issues. This analysis contributes to understanding the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. The TMP method produces such catalysts, improving propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, crucial for selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are examined, with site isolation affecting reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation also benefit from site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's catalytic conversion via oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The text also delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends. [1] Emphasizes the alternative process to direct dehydrogenation, [2] highlighting factors governing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis due to the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step, but achieving high selectivity and conversion remains difficult. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step of the alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms involve specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, where the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms is crucial. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. The catalytic sequence requires transition states that introduce electron density into oxide domains, influenced by the LUMO energy level. Larger oxide domains have lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhancing their ability to accept electrons, which is consistent with linear free energy relationships in oxidation catalysis. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains stabilize transition states for reduction steps. Higher surface densities lead to crystalline MoOx with inaccessible centers, decreasing turnover rates. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends on electron acceptance during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can design materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propene and propane rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties, also affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance with Mo oxides. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength, influencing k3/k1 ratios. Catalyst activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) are attributed to reducibility and oxygen species basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their vast reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is difficult due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. The nature of the alkane dictates catalyst choice and reaction conditions, impacting selectivity and activity. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center influence the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species. Acid and basic centers depend on the support and additives, affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. Higher loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, while coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity and olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, as well as V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support, with reaction mechanisms and selective sites still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state of the metal cation. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes that balance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The presence of additives like P, K, Ca, and others modifies acid-base and redox properties, enhancing alkane activation. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, as it affects selectivity. In ethane ODH, the presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is key for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industry, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, with enhanced activity by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by making vanadium sites harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by temperature and surface area. Higher temperatures up to about 700°C enhance C2 selectivity and conversion. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, lacking variable oxidation states, represents a novel catalyst type.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Active sites play a critical role, with their size and electronic properties impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as shown for MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond breaking is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the activation of methane and ethane on metal oxide surfaces leads to the formation of alkyl radicals, with ethane conversion achieving 75% and C2H4 selectivity of 77% over a Li/MgO catalyst. The initial activation step for both CH4 and C2H6 is the formation of alkyl radicals, but subsequent pathways differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice as large as those from methane due to the absence of an analogous route to stable products for CH3 radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 is less than in CH4, resulting in substantially greater reaction rates with C2H6. Effective catalysts for oxidative coupling also prove beneficial for ethane OXD, demonstrating the interplay between catalysts and reaction mechanisms in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The reaction mechanism, consistent with the Mars-van Krevelen redox model, involves irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, illustrating the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by controlling radical-radical interactions and the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thereby optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, highlight the role of site characteristics in reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal in reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement on the surface defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation crucial for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, covering unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and various influencing factors. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, as highlighted by quote [2]: 'Efficient catalysts are those such as VPO or VSbO based systems that provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation that clearly overcome the activation step.' The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions, as mentioned in quote [3], arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a difficult but promising challenge, as stated in quote [1].", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles that activate the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons during CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials for optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the effect of cation identity on pathways was studied using VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Rates depend on CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, consistent with observed trends on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from CH4 conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Catalyst reactivity determines the reaction rate of surface intermediates. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting catalyst performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice depends on the alkane type, with different catalysts effective for various alkanes. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also impact selectivity and activity. Site isolation prevents undesired product formation, enhancing selectivity. Acid-base properties and the type of oxygen affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be oxidized further. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the reaction path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. The acid-base character of catalysts affects olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base characteristics, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in these reactions. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior, essential for selective catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. However, their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, but the reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts' properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be enhanced by secondary surface metal oxide additives. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, with ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. High C2 selectivity and conversion are temperature-dependent, peaking around 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the pathway to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, offering a new approach to process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial. Site isolation stabilizes active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions. Active site size and properties significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts show that monomeric species exhibit acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their function, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, leading to optimal ratios of active ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene, as demonstrated by Moro-oka and Ueda for MoMgO catalysts, requires BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively influence the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which can hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane production is mainly from CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane ODH shows higher C2H4 selectivity (77%) at 75% conversion due to weaker C-H bonds, resulting in faster reaction rates. The initial step for both CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation, but subsequent pathways differ, leading to higher C2H4 yields in ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the reaction mechanism follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox pathway. Two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH groups recombine to produce water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize by O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses selectivity issues, as site isolation of active centers can enhance the efficiency of the process by minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with a mechanism comprising C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and hold promise for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions and undesired side reactions by controlling the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thereby optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for catalytic dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, highlight the role of site characteristics in reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation also affects the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement on the surface defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, reaction mechanisms, and factors affecting catalytic efficiency. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites is also discussed, along with kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, highlighting conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts exhibit p-type semiconducting properties, allowing hydrogen abstraction by surface O) species. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. A complete model of the reaction process must consider surface dynamics, adsorbed species, and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to oxide domains' electron acceptance ability during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies correlate with higher ODH turnover rates, indicating the importance of electron transfer in CH bond activation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in ODH reactions requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred as an oxidant over O2. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence, effectively abstracting hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling. Notably, high C2 compound yields from methane conversion under conventional conditions have been achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which makes their activation difficult, limiting selectivity and conversion. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, play a pivotal role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires an affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface, influenced by the catalyst's reactivity and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, and dopants can provide such sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina and reducible supports increase activity, with higher reducibility correlating with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of the catalyst significantly affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity, and the addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd alters the oxidation state of vanadium, impacting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene. Understanding the interplay between catalyst structure, reaction conditions, and surface properties is essential for optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, affecting efficiency. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging, requiring advanced techniques. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the reaction path. Catalysts' acid-base character influences olefin formation and desorption rates. Optimization involves linking catalyst selection to alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Chromium oxides anchor onto surfaces post-calcination, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    