Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides' performance affected by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with V2O5 loading, optimal with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. N2O as an oxidant results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, enhanced by secondary surface metal oxide additives. Incorporating high vanadium contents can lead to structural instability. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). C-H bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, uses Mo16V4Nb2 for high activity and selectivity in ethane conversion. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, with improved activity by adding V, Cr, and Mo. Selectivity in VNbO catalysts is enhanced by niobium neighbors, preventing facile reduction that can cause low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, to activate C-H bonds and form M-alkyl intermediates. Challenges include achieving high selectivity and conversion, influenced by reaction mechanisms like 2H-abstraction. Active sites, crucial for selectivity, must be isolated to stabilize desired reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, single and isolated metallic ion sites are insufficient for all transformations, necessitating the presence of distinct active sites for substrate oxidation and dioxygen reduction. The nature of the metal-oxygen bond, its polarization, and the oxygen ion's electrophilic or nucleophilic properties are critical. Site isolation and optimization are essential for process efficiency, as demonstrated by the enhanced catalytic performance of materials with specific active site configurations, such as continuous chains of vanadyl or CrO6 octahedra. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, also plays a role in the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary with acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking at specific ratios for ethylene and propene selectivity. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane's ODH yields C2H4 more efficiently than methane's oxidative coupling due to differing radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates its reaction rates compared to methane.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism aligns with a Mars-van Krevelen redox process, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation through OH group recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation impacts selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the local structure of chromium surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, particularly Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, enhancing selectivity, and the use of supported systems affects active site distribution, impacting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, results in the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, indirectly touching on the concept of site isolation as a factor in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors. Coverage includes unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites is critical, affecting both activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are analyzed. The review concludes with insights into future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process, challenging for both industry and academia in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems are crucial for alkane activation, overcoming the initial barrier. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts exhibit particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways without desorption. Oxygen species play a crucial role, with vanadium sites and cationic vacancies stabilizing O) species for alkane activation. Dopants influence catalytic properties, and the redox properties of catalysts change under different conditions. The active catalytic site can correspond to isolated vanadium species neighboring a cationic vacancy, inducing the stabilization of O) species for alkane activation. The M1 phase, a network of MO6 octahedra, shows that the activation of the alkane molecule occurs on vanadium sites, with resonance forms leading to surface O) for H abstraction. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, as per quote 2. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms, as stated in quote 4. The ability of oxide domains to accept electron density, influenced by LUMO energy levels (quote 6), is crucial for catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy (quote 10), indicating that larger domains with lower LUMO energies (quote 16) enhance reactivity. Quantum confinement effects, as mentioned in quote 28, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with activation energies and reaction rates following the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies influence relative rates, with the weakest CH bond in propane being stronger than in propene. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy, while propene combustion has a lower activation energy. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to C2 compound production via radical coupling. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high C2 compound yields from CH4 conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though economically significant due to their large reserves, are challenging to activate compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons. Their conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is more difficult due to their high stability, leading to selectivity issues as products may oxidize easily. Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step in transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports are more effective. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties influence ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane type. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Chlorine ions, for instance, are critical for high ethene yield, while the coordination number of the active center and the environment of the active site influence the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions to optimize selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ can be present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic states, affecting performance (Quote 1). In ethane ODH, COx formation is linked to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric (Quote 2). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures affecting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6), while site isolation is crucial for high selectivity (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9). Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or oxidize to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is significant but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized with Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides for ethane conversion. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, and Mo. Site isolation, particularly niobium's role in VNbO catalysts, improves selectivity by preventing facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, effectively producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature boosts C2 selectivity and methane conversion. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivity by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The efficiency of the process is collectively determined by the interplay of these factors. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. As observed by Boudart and others, the nature of the metal ion and its environment dictate the polarity of metal-oxygen bonds, influencing the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of oxygen ions. This, in turn, affects the interaction with reactant molecules, such as C-H bond activation in the vicinity of a double bond or aromatic ring. The concept of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites, with their size and structure, is essential for understanding catalytic performance in ODH. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can help characterize these clusters, providing insights into their local symmetry, coordination number, and nearby element distances. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, as per the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism, is also critical for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with CH3 and C2H5 radicals playing key roles. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength (422 kJ mol-1 vs. 439 kJ mol-1 for methane) accelerates reactions, yielding higher C2H4 selectivity. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions demonstrated 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of catalyst choice in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, involving two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize by O2 chemisorption, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. This mechanism addresses the challenges of selectivity and conversion in the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the process efficiency influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the chromium's local structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting the process's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, hinting at the role of site isolation in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are crucial, and site isolation affects reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation highlight site isolation's importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process, presenting a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step of alkanes, crucial for the process. Achieving high selectivity and conversion remains difficult due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways and steps that occur simultaneously on the adsorbed phase without desorption. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out as universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various supports and oxides, indicating a general mechanism for ODH catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 were studied, revealing that activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, with reaction rates decreasing accordingly. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to the shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower apparent activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1  ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is difficult due to their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity, hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with vanadium-based catalysts showing promise for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance, with Pd's high affinity for H2 enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, employs various catalysts including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with effectiveness varying by alkane type. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst choice and reaction conditions, including temperature and contact time, are critical. Acid-base properties and oxygen type influence ODH performance. The nature of the alkane affects reactivity and catalyst selection. Chlorine ions, for instance, are essential for high ethene yield. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species. Acid and basic centers' formation depends on the support and additive basicity, influencing olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of supported Cr ions is support-dependent, with easier reduction on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling the redox properties of Cr ions. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their molecular structure influenced by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly impacts vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites influence supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Selective catalyst development in ODH reactions hinges on these factors. Supported metal oxides offer enhanced mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides boosts bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and support influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. Reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimized VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures and the addition of secondary metal oxides can enhance propane activation to propylene. Incorporating both acid and redox sites, as in VCoAPO-18, is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives without affecting activity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a key factor in preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, leading to ethane and further oxidization to ethylene. High C2 selectivities and conversions are achieved up to about 700°C. Low surface areas favor C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, distinguishing it from traditional oxidation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated metallic ion sites insufficient for the reaction's complexity. The nature of the metal ion and its environment, including the coordination structure, determines the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of the oxygen ion, affecting the activation of C-H bonds. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts greatly influence catalytic properties, is a key concept. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and electronic properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation facilitates the stabilization of specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions, and is essential for process optimization in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical, with pathways sensitive to acid-base properties. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, affecting conversion and selectivity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals coupling in the gas phase. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chloride ions showed 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role in the selective oxidation of lower alkanes during oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The strength of the MO bond and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influence the reactivity and efficiency of these catalysts. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. The remaining OH groups recombine to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses selectivity issues by isolating active sites, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, impacting process efficiency. The reaction proceeds through C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with H2 evolution, highlighting the role of chromium site structure in mechanism and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr. Notably, Cr retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH processes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a potential ODH mechanism, but its high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes it unlikely for catalytic dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. This analysis reveals the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, emphasizing the need for optimized catalyst design in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal in the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement on the surface defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors influencing catalytic efficiency. Unsupported and supported catalysts, along with promoters, are discussed. Key factors include catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, are analyzed. The review concludes with insights into future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step but still facing issues with selectivity and conversion. The complexity arises from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but none is universally applicable. The goal is to find a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Catalysts' properties and the dynamic nature of oxide surfaces influence process efficiency, necessitating a comprehensive understanding of surface dynamics and adsorbed species. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and charge carrier concentration, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electron density. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials for optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Lower LUMO energies correlate with higher catalytic turnover rates, as observed in UV-visible absorption edge energies. These trends are consistent across various oxide domains and reducible supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 exhibit a sequence in activation energies and reaction rates for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Higher Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH and propene combustion involves the same sites, impacting selectivity. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy, while propene combustion has a lower activation energy, affecting k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent findings highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting abundant but less reactive alkanes to valuable products drives research in oxidative dehydrogenation. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Activation of alkanes is challenging due to their high stability, requiring specific conditions that can limit selectivity. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is harder than for other hydrocarbons, leading to potential non-selective oxidation. The CH bond's high stability necessitates a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface for activation. Catalyst reactivity, hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with site isolation improving selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion, with the nature of the VOS bond critical for ethane oxidation. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation proving beneficial for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type. Site isolation aids selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Efficiency is affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, with kinetic models and molecular mechanisms requiring advanced techniques for understanding. The nature of alkane and reaction conditions dictate catalyst selection, with chlorine ions crucial for high ethene yield. Active center coordination and environment influence the reaction path, and vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. Acid and basic centers' strength and reducibility play a role, affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit high mobility and reactivity with various molecules, including alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with easier reduction on chemically softer supports. Polychromate formation is favored by higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their molecular structure determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can significantly affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is facilitated by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. Site isolation, specifically niobium's resistance to reduction, improves selectivity in VNbO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH. For instance, isolated metallic ion sites cannot account for all transformations in the reaction, as several steps like oxygen anion vacancy replenishment, H atom extraction, and electron transfer are involved. The size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial, with low-size polymeric species exhibiting better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than large-size species or bulk-type oxides. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts, with peculiar fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules required for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like metal oxides play a pivotal role, achieving up to 20% methane conversion with 80% selectivity for ethane and ethylene in a single reactor pass. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on the catalyst surface and radical chemistry in the gas phase, where CH3 and C2H5 radicals are key intermediates. The presence of O2 influences the pathway, favoring C2H4 formation over coupling reactions. Site isolation on catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions enhances selectivity, achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the importance of catalyst design in addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing the MO bond strength to intermediate levels enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary or direct combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, specifically ethane over Cr(III)silica, involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer leading to ethene, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation affects selectivity, highlighting the role of chromium's local structure in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and an alternative to V-based catalysts, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in catalytic reactions, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by preventing undesired side reactions and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, which involves a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely route for dehydrogenation. The literature compares the reactivity of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. While site isolation is not explicitly discussed, its role in enhancing selectivity can be inferred from the comparison of surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is key in the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a critical role in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and various conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems providing unique mechanisms to overcome the activation step. Selective oxidation reactions are complex due to multiple simultaneous pathways. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with various proposed mechanisms for light alkane activation. Efficient catalysts have sites that allow two methylene H abstraction, explaining the selectivity observed. The activation can be related to the p-type semiconducting properties of the solids, likely through hydrogen abstraction by a surface O) species. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Process optimization requires understanding the interplay between catalysts, selectivity, conversion, and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by the effects of residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing propane ODH rates. Higher surface densities lead to crystalline MoOx formation, decreasing accessible Mo centers and turnover rates. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies and increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends on electron acceptance during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propene and propane rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties, also influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance with Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to ethylene and other C2 compounds has faced low yield challenges, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which complicates their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, underscoring the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is hindered by their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity, surface acid/base features, and bulk vs. surface reduction are critical factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also affect ODH performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity towards various molecules. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. These factors are essential for developing selective ODH catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide is influenced by the metal oxide support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides (VMgO) and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. The different catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts relate to V-species' coordination and environment modifications, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. However, the reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and additives can enhance propane activation. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity increasing with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength and ODH activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH is a critical reaction, yet the faster oxidation of alkene products than alkanes poses a challenge, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities (Quote 2, 3). Various bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). High temperatures, above 600 C, are required, favoring gas phase reactions. CH bond activation leads to Malkyl intermediates, decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, Mo additions. Niobium's resistance to reduction in VNbO catalysts boosts selectivity by preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with isolated sites stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Oxygen species transfer and the nature of metal ions are crucial, with metal-oxygen bonds affecting the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of the oxygen ions. This, in turn, influences the interaction with reactant molecules, affecting the efficiency of the ODH process. Site isolation facilitates better control over selectivity, optimizing the process by stabilizing desired active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalyst studies show. Reaction pathways vary by catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. C2H4 yields are higher in ODH due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 results in faster reaction rates, demonstrating the influence of bond strength on ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers, after desorbing propene, reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses the challenges of selectivity and conversion in alkane dehydrogenation, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation impacts selectivity, with the reaction sensitive to the local structure around chromium, highlighting its role in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by controlling radical-radical interactions and the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, suggest the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, though this is not explicitly discussed.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation impacts the reactivity of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity on activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites and kinetic studies are analyzed, providing insights into the hydrocarbon activation process. The review concludes with an outlook on future trends, optimizing the process for better efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including the role of Bronsted and Lewis acid sites. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions, characterizing structure defects and active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by the effects of residence time on alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step that activates the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with catalytic functions independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations on VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 structures influences ODH pathways. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations impacts propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with differences in activation energies increasing as acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered as CH bond activation sites are shared with alkene combustion. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential for selective ODH, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. [2] Activation energies correlate with CH bond cleavage, influenced by metal oxide reducibility. [3] Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting Lewis acidity, also affect reaction rates. [4] Activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion increase with cation Lewis acidity. [6] Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared CH bond activation sites. [15] Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive and thus preserved over time, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves and potential conversion into valuable chemical products. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is a key industrial goal. However, the activation of alkanes is more challenging than that of unsaturated hydrocarbons, limiting their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative, highlighting the need for catalyst development. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts performance, emphasizing the importance of in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, affecting selectivity. Catalysts must have an affinity with alkanes for initial activation, and their reactivity determines the rate of surface intermediates' reaction. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, while dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen, and its activation is linked to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports are more effective. Catalysts' redox properties and acidity affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with niobia modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. The affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. Catalysts' bulk reduction vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule influence activity and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters affect ODH performance. Selecting the right catalyst is crucial, as it influences reactivity and the choice of alkane. Reaction conditions, like temperature and contact time, also impact selectivity and activity. Determining molecular mechanisms requires advanced techniques. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying catalyst behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role, as does the nature of the support and additives. The acid-base character of catalysts influences olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility, interacting with alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water (Quote 2). Its redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports (Quote 3). Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation (Quote 6). After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity to olefins and oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Incorporating high vanadium contents in hosting structures can lead to structural instability. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, with high temperatures needed for ethane ODH, favoring gas phase reactions. Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction, with an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, emphasizing the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is a promising process. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to an optimal point. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, addressing selectivity issues in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems to activate C-H bonds, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed by optimizing the interplay between catalysts and reaction mechanisms. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions, which is crucial for process efficiency. Active sites' size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions, as demonstrated by the role of oxygen ions with electrophilic or nucleophilic character in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. These findings highlight the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane's OXD yields C2H4 more efficiently than methane due to different radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting catalyst effectiveness. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing the MO bond strength to intermediate levels enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH group recombines with neighboring OH groups to form water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption. This mechanism addresses selectivity issues, with irreversible steps involving CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration under H2 evolution. Site isolation affects selectivity, and the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium's local structure is noted.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for retaining high selectivity at improved conversions. These catalysts are alternatives to V-based systems for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, is crucial for controlling radical formation and improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically aids in managing radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity by restricting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thereby optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex and the necessity of β-hydrogen transfer. The literature compares the reactivity of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges, shedding light on catalyst efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal for reactivities in materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation key for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons at well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, analyzing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights the activation of hydrocarbons and factors influencing catalytic efficiency. The text covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact the process. The nature of active and selective sites, detailed kinetic studies, and proposed reaction mechanisms are also explored. Conclusions and future trends in the field are summarized, providing a comprehensive analysis of the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion are hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single theory is universally accepted. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with mechanisms involving different sites proposed. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts exhibit specific properties, such as strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species, which are crucial for alkene oxidation. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests localized active sites may not fully explain the process. A complete model must consider surface dynamics, adsorbed species, and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and charge carrier concentration, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations in VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 influences ODH pathways. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Rates of propane ODH and propene combustion depend on CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Limited kinetic data suggests a similar ODH mechanism for Mo and W oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields at higher temperatures. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with cation Lewis acidity, significantly impact k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is attributed to metal reducibility and oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst successfully converts CH4 to C2 compounds in high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenge of low product yields.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is difficult due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues as products may oxidize under activation conditions. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains its selectivity for ethylene. Catalyst affinity, surface properties, and reduction vs. surface reduction are critical for activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including reducible transition metal oxides and systems like B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with the type of alkane and reaction conditions. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions, for instance, are crucial for high ethene yield. The efficiency of ODH is collectively influenced by these factors, requiring careful catalyst selection and optimization of reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Chromium oxides anchor onto the surface post-calcination, reacting with hydroxyl groups, and their structure is determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts for short chain alkanes' ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    