Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including supported metal oxides, where the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties impact performance. Vanadium oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, and COx formation in ethane ODH is mainly due to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Incorporating high vanadium contents can lead to structural instability. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Various bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). Malkyl intermediates decompose to 1-alkenes through β-H abstraction (Quote 9), and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is a promising process. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, but low conversion rates. Adding V, Cr, and Mo improves activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can cause low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a certain point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. This catalyst system is novel for oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, to overcome challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Active sites play a pivotal role, with site isolation enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Structure sensitivity is a critical factor, as the fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules influences catalytic performance. Understanding the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for optimizing their function, as the right size of active sites and ion ratios are monitored and regulated by reactants and preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves CH3 and C2H5 radical formation, with C2H4 yields from OXD being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling. Over Li/MgO with chloride ions, 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion is achieved. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 results in substantially greater reaction rates with C2H6, highlighting the importance of C-H bond strength in ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with the OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands determining reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism is proposed, involving irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by preventing undesired reactions, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation enhances selectivity, addressing a key challenge in achieving high conversion and selectivity. The process efficiency is influenced by the interplay between catalyst structure and reaction mechanisms, highlighting the importance of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity at improved conversions, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are key in preventing undesired side reactions by controlling the availability of reactive sites for intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, results in the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, highlight the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, although direct discussion of site isolation is not provided.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, demonstrate the significance of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms are also explored, with conclusions on future trends. [1] Highlights the catalytic conversion and [2] the factors governing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with numerous simultaneous reaction pathways, posing a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been suggested, involving sites with specific properties. The properties of these species do not fit with those required for efficient alkene oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Efficient catalysts are those that provide mechanisms clearly overcoming the activation step. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a difficult but promising challenge. A complete modeling of the reaction process would necessitate encompassing the dynamics of the surface and the adsorbed species. The electrical conductivity can provide information on the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, affecting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, as demonstrated using VOx, MoOx, and WOx structures supported on ZrO2. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion follow the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH is hindered due to the shared sites required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to mirror that of MoOx/ZrO2. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is attributed to metal center reducibility and active lattice oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to produce valuable chemicals has faced low yield challenges, with some processes using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence, effectively abstracting hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, yielding high C2 compound production under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in activating alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, due to their high stability and low reactivity, which hinders industrial processes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is more challenging than other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity due to the ease of product oxidation. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation. Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation, influencing selectivity and conversion. Catalyst reactivity determines the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, affecting activity dramatically. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst-alkane affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by the nature of the alkane, catalyst type, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Kinetic models and mechanisms, as discussed in quotes 1 and 4, are crucial for understanding ODH. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by the catalyst, reaction conditions, and alkane features, as highlighted in quotes 5, 10, and 11. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also affect ODH performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in different oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility, structure, and coordination number, along with acid/base sites, are critical for catalytic properties. Supported vanadium oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are selective for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the influence of support on vanadium species and catalytic behavior. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including supported metal oxides with critical factors such as the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' performance in propane ODH is optimized with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Active VOx domains' reduction and catalytic properties are significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide. Site isolation is a key factor in designing efficient catalysts for alkane ODH. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, particularly converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is an attractive process for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, though with low conversion rates. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, vanadium sites' selectivity is improved by niobium neighbors, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity often caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to around 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, highlighting its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. Structure sensitivity and the nature of the support significantly impact catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites are crucial for selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts (Moro-oka and Ueda). Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper in thoria, peaking at specific ratios for ethylene and propene selectivity. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. C2H4 yields from ethane OXD are twice those from methane coupling, due to differing pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process by isolating active sites for enhanced efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the efficiency sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, impacting process optimization in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity at improved conversions. This system is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by controlling radical interactions and the availability of reactive sites for intermediates, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, leading to ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formation, is unlikely due to a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity issues. The text does not provide a comprehensive analysis of ODH, but it does discuss the mechanism and its limitations, which are key to understanding process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity and conversion. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation further underscore the role of site isolation in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen availability, and surface properties on activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites and kinetic studies are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process that poses significant challenges in heterogeneous catalysis, particularly in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems have been developed to overcome the activation step, a critical process phase. However, the multitude of possible reaction pathways and steps occurring simultaneously on the adsorbed phase complicates selectivity. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measurable by alkenes and COx formation rates. Catalyst turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains better accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, through domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, particularly V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, influences the observed differences in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting cation Lewis acidity, affect relative ODH and combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are crucial for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been historically low. N2O is sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence, effectively abstracting hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through the coupling of two gaseous ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation, underscores the importance of their selective conversion to valuable products. Challenges include the high stability of alkanes, which limits selectivity under activation conditions. Catalysts play a crucial role, with the initial activation of the C-H bond requiring affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Redox properties and the presence of reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation. Reaction conditions, such as the use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen, can improve selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Catalyst modifications, such as the addition of niobia or doping with Te or Pd, can enhance selectivity and reactivity. Understanding the interplay between catalyst structure, reaction conditions, and the electronic structure of alkanes is key to optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of the alkane dictating catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features collectively affect ODH efficiency. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also influence the reaction's performance. Selecting the right catalyst for the alkane and optimizing reaction conditions are key to process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic structure. Supported metal oxides, with isolated metal cations, exhibit enhanced performance in ODH. The support significantly affects reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts showing higher selectivity. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, crucial for high selectivity. Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, and the presence of alkali additives influences MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This novel catalyst system enhances process efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size, electronic, and geometric properties significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Active sites can be molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, where size influences catalytic properties. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal ion ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts, where propylene formation correlates with the number of such sites. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical, and high temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact activity and selectivity. Higher copper content boosts catalytic activity but affects selectivity differently for ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios. Ethane conversion is enhanced at high copper contents, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene is linked to copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is analyzed, focusing on catalysts, challenges, mechanisms, and optimization. Best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 yields are higher in OXD than in methane coupling due to different pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 influences reaction rates. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role in selective oxidation, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, highlighting the importance of site isolation for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation aiding selectivity. This highlights the sensitivity of dehydrogenation to catalyst structure and the importance of optimization for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, improving selectivity, and the distribution of active sites impacts selectivity through controlled radical-radical interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, leads to the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, highlight the role of site characteristics in reactivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts outperform others for propane ODH, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation plays a crucial role in controlling catalytic site structures, influencing selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, improving propane ODH efficiency. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation affecting the reactivities of materials and interfaces, crucial for defining reactivity. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons also benefit from site isolation strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are detailed, with conclusions on future trends. [1] Emphasizes catalytic conversion and [2] highlights factors governing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Efficient alkene oxidation requires specific properties that are not universally present in oxidation catalysts. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The process efficiency is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [1] The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising but difficult challenge. [2] Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. [3] The complexity arises from multiple possible reaction pathways. [4] No single mechanism stands out. [5] The goal is to propose a common activation site. [6] The first step is oxidative dehydrogenation. [7] Different mechanisms have been proposed. [9] A complete modeling of the reaction process would necessitate encompassing the dynamics of the surface and adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons during reduction steps. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with increased reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize materials for catalysis beyond chemical composition, impacting LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with decreasing reaction rates (VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2). Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been historically low, with N2O often preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence as highly active for hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their large reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the first step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, and Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions, for instance, are essential for high ethene yield. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, influenced by the support's nature and basicity of additives.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state, and presence of acid/base sites significantly impact the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for developing selective catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Selectivity to propylene increases with higher surface reduction. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, consisting of distinct cationic and dioxygen reduction sites, play a critical role in the reaction, with the transfer of electrons and oxygen species facilitating the process. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and nature of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly impact process efficiency. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and free-radical chemistry. Ethane is produced by coupling surface-generated CH3 radicals. C2H4 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Catalysts effective for methane oxidative coupling also work for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with initial steps involving alkyl radical formation. Ethyl radicals have distinct pathways compared to methyl radicals. Over Li/MgO catalysts, 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion is achieved, with higher reaction rates due to weaker C-H bonds in C2H6 than in CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This understanding aids in addressing the challenges of high selectivity and conversion, and optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The reaction mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and OH group recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction, with a mechanism comprising C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly using supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting the process's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is pertinent to selectivity issues. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges reveal differences in reactivity, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, and high surface areas and homogeneities are vital for improved performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, crucial for propane ODH. Support materials Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied. Site isolation is key for reactivities of well-defined iron sites in selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, including catalyst types, composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and surface basicity. Active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic and mechanism analysis, are also covered, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with significant industrial and academic interest. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step of alkanes, which is crucial for the process. However, achieving high selectivity and conversion remains challenging due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms. [Quote 1] highlights the difficulty and promise of the process. [Quote 2] emphasizes the importance of efficient catalysts. [Quote 3] addresses the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions. [Quote 5] aims to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. [Quote 7] reviews different proposed mechanisms for light alkane activation. [Quote 15] discusses the primary activation of n-butane involving a methylene CH bond rupture. [Quote 16] shows that lattice oxygen is involved in the activation process. [Quote 20] proposes a probable catalytic site and mechanism involving hydrogen abstraction and electron transfer. [Quote 23] notes the importance of O) species in alkane activation. [Quote 28] highlights the influence of dopants on the catalytic properties of VPO catalysts. [Quote 30] and [Quote 31] discuss the p-type and n-type semiconductor properties of efficient catalysts under different conditions. [Quote 41] mentions the VSbO catalysts and their active phase. [Quote 49] suggests that the active catalytic site at the surface of vanadium antimonate could correspond to isolated vanadium species neighboring a cationic vacancy. [Quote 50] proposes that such an arrangement should induce the stabilization of O) species allowing the activation of the alkane molecule.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. The UV-visible absorption edge energy correlates with LUMO energy levels, impacting the catalytic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts like VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 play a critical role. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, such as V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, influences the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15]", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been low, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent findings show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from CH4 to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production by coupling two gaseous ·CH3 radicals. Notably, high yields of C2 compounds from CH4 conversion have been achieved under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, is highlighted by their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but also hindered their industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity. Surface interactions between hydrocarbons and catalysts are critical for activation and selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species determine selectivity. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, while dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with site isolation improving selectivity. Modifying catalysts with niobia, Te, or Pd alters redox properties and acidity, affecting selectivity to ethylene. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Acidic properties of oxides are influenced by the cation's charge and radius. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are related to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, enhancing ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be oxidized further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying catalyst behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support influence acid and basic centers. The rate of olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption depends on the acid-base character of the catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in various oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in these reactions. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. However, the nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modifies catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence state, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with higher V2O5 loading, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of catalytically significant reduced centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). High temperatures, required for ethane ODH, favor gas phase reactions. Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction (Quote 9, 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the need for site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which can be improved by adding V, Cr, and Mo without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting reduction, a key factor in preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Active sites, often molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, significantly influence catalytic properties, with size impacting selectivity and conversion. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, favoring total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by minimizing side reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. The Mars and van Krevelen mechanism, involving lattice oxygen ions with electrophilic or nucleophilic character, is crucial. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. Active sites' size and electronic properties are monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, leading to optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The selective oxidation of propane to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to the acid-base properties of catalysts, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is critical for optimizing selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength enhances reaction rates. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields. The process is optimized by controlling radical chemistry and minimizing surface interactions that can lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role in selective oxidation, with the MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water, impacting selectivity. This mechanism addresses the challenges of achieving high conversion and selectivity in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation influences selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate systems are alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in catalytic reactions, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, highlight the role of site isolation in selectivity, though not explicitly discussed.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are examined for their role in site isolation, which is key for reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation also benefit from site isolation, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetics, and mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties affecting catalytic efficiency. The nature of active and selective sites is also analyzed, with detailed kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms provided. This comprehensive analysis aids in understanding ODH process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [2] highlights the importance of efficient catalysts, while [5] proposes a common activation site. [3] and [4] emphasize the complexity and lack of a single mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design beyond chemical composition, impacting LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to the coupling of these radicals to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive and thus preserved over time, hold significant economic interest for conversion due to their large reserves. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, making their activation more difficult than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative, highlighting the need for catalyst development. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the importance of in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues due to the ease of product oxidation. The CH bond's high energy, especially in primary carbons, requires a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface for initial activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity and conversion. Molecular oxygen activation needs reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with higher reducibility correlating to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of supports, like alumina and vanadium oxide, influence ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity, and modifications like niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts enhance redox properties and selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd affects the oxidation state of vanadium, impacting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst surface properties, including acid-base features, are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. As shown, vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, and the presence of chlorine ions is essential for high ethene yield. Understanding these factors is key to optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. These factors are crucial for understanding the catalyst's role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, impacting process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside the acid-base character, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are ongoing research topics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts' properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values. Additives like alkali metals affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing electronic and catalytic properties. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH faces a key challenge: alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 perform ODH but with low yields. Supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and β-H abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which can be enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity, as it prevents facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to about 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of active sites impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 exhibit different catalytic properties based on their structure and size, with monomeric species often showing acidic features and polymeric species displaying redox properties. The role of the support, such as silica or alumina, also affects catalytic behavior by influencing the adsorption of anions and the pH of the solution. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, with the best catalysts often requiring a specific fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and composition significantly influence catalytic properties. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can be used to better characterize these clusters. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal VS+/V4+ ratios and regulated by preparation procedures and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. These findings highlight the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like those for methane oxidative coupling achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. Catalysts effective for methane oxidative coupling are also effective for ethane OXD, with alkyl radical formation as the initial step. Pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, with C2H4 yields being higher in OXD than in methane oxidative coupling. A Li/MgO catalyst achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. C2H6's weaker C-H bonds lead to faster reaction rates, enhancing ethane OXD efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in the selective oxidation of lower alkanes during oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The efficiency of this process can be improved by optimizing the electronic properties of the catalysts, particularly the strength of the MO bond, which must be of intermediate strength for selective oxidation catalysis. Site isolation can enhance selectivity by preventing secondary reactions that lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene desorption and reversible OH recombination to form water. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through irreversible O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism comprising three steps: C-H activation of ethane, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration under H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, suitable for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically aids in controlling radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity by preventing undesired side reactions and managing the distribution of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely route for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site characteristics in process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, impacting selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO supports have been studied, with site isolation vital for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights the activation of hydrocarbons and factors governing catalytic efficiency. The text covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity influence the process. The nature of active and selective sites is discussed, along with detailed analysis of kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms. Conclusions and future trends in the field are summarized, providing a comprehensive view of the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process challenging both industry and academia in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts, notably VPO or VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step of alkanes, a critical process component. Achieving high selectivity and conversion remains challenging due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways and steps occurring simultaneously on the adsorbed phase. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step that activates the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various reducible oxide domains and supports, reflecting the importance of LUMO energy levels in catalytic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with decreasing reaction rates (VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2). The Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies influence relative rates, with propene's weaker allylic CH bond contributing to its greater reactivity. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2), highlighting the importance of intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent lab findings show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive and thus preserved over time, hold significant economic interest for conversion due to their large reserves. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. However, the activation of alkanes is more challenging than that of unsaturated hydrocarbons, limiting their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative, highlighting the need for catalyst development. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, emphasizing the importance of in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, affecting selectivity. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by the catalyst's reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for C-H bond activation. Surface acidity is influenced by cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by the nature of the alkane and reaction conditions. Catalysts like B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P, as well as reducible transition metal oxides, are effective for specific alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions decompose to ethene or further oxidize to CO and CO2. The coordination number of the active center and the environment of the active site affect the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility towards various molecules. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with easier reduction on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports influence vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination and aggregation, along with acid/base sites, are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity for olefins. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity in ODH of short chain alkanes. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are related to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for ODH of short chain alkanes are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    