Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate vanadium loadings. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. Additives like alkali metals influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and ODH activity affected by Mo-O bond strength. Site isolation plays a key role in achieving high selectivity by controlling the interaction between active sites and reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a promising method for alkene production, notably converting ethane to ethene using Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts, which outperform other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. Active sites, their size, and electronic properties significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Catalysts must be considered dynamically under reaction conditions, as the size of active sites is monitored and regulated by reactants and preparation methods. Supported oxide catalysts exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and nature of the active sites, with low-size polymeric species showing better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than bulk-type oxides. The interplay between these factors collectively influences process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary by catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios, influenced by copper(II) sites. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. For propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts play a crucial role, with the best achieving 20% methane conversion and 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. Ethane OXD yields are more than twice those of methane oxidative coupling, due to differing pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of catalyst choice in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates reaction rates compared to methane.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with the MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences metal oxide reactivity, affecting the catalyst's ability to transfer electrons, crucial for selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the reaction mechanism follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox pathway. Two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH groups recombine to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption. This mechanism addresses the challenges of achieving high selectivity and conversion, with irreversible steps involving CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation aiding in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for retaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions, improving selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. However, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges highlight the role of site characteristics in reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method facilitates the production of high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting the efficiency of propane ODH. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of materials such as bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, covering unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and other parameters on activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. A common activation site could be proposed for several efficient catalysts. The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, as observed with VOx, MoOx, and WOx structures on ZrO2. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered by the shared sites for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to mirror that of MoOx/ZrO2. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as seen in the trend of ODH rates and k2/k1, k3/k1 ratios on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is difficult due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with distinct behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support influence acid and basic centers, affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibit similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Their redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, influencing the redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment. The surface chemistry is influenced by the isoelectric point, surface area, and Cr loading.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports influences vanadium dispersion and species, crucial for catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their nature and vanadium loading affect catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in ODH of short chain alkanes. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves increase selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, influenced by modifications in V-species coordination and environment affecting redox properties. The paper aims to understand these sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, with vanadium oxide as a key example, show enhanced performance with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Catalysts' reactivity is significantly affected by the support, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties. Site isolation is a key factor in the design of efficient catalysts, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where the presence of both acid and redox sites is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane conversion, is more efficient than other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity in propane conversion, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, Mo improves activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by preventing facile reduction, which can cause low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, effectively producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the pathway to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are linked to reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The efficiency of the process is collectively influenced by these factors. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over undesired side reactions. Active sites for ODH reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size significantly impacts catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation properties, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial for the reaction considered and the support used. Oxidation catalysts must be viewed dynamically under reaction conditions, as their properties can change over time, influenced by the reactants and preparation procedures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts (Moro-oka and Ueda). Pathways vary in sensitivity to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios, correlating with copper(II) sites. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. For propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional sites determine propene selectivity. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, optimizes selectivity, addressing key process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the effectiveness for ethane over methane. The mechanism involves alkyl radical formation, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. In O2 presence, C2H5 radicals prefer reaction over coupling, unlike CH3 radicals, leading to higher C2H4 yields in ethane OXD. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination steps are reversible. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, illustrating the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with a mechanism comprising C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in achieving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired interactions between radicals, potentially enhancing selectivity. The distribution of active sites, influenced by catalyst design, impacts selectivity, and site isolation prevents certain intermediates from accessing reactive sites, further optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has a high activation energy barrier, around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely route for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, show differing reactivities. Site isolation, while not explicitly discussed, plays a role in selectivity issues. This analysis highlights the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, impacting selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts, and site isolation strategies improve control over catalytic sites, especially on oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO. Spatial arrangement of metal atoms on catalyst surfaces, as seen in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, is key for reactivity. Site isolation facilitates selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity influence the process. The review also explores active and selective sites, analyzes kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, and summarizes conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including sites with specific properties. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. A complete model of the reaction process must consider the dynamics of the surface, adsorbed species, and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, affecting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electron density. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with MoOx and VOx surface densities and LUMO energy decreases. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to oxide domains' electron acceptance during reduction events. These findings highlight the role of electronic properties in ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting selectivity. Selective poisoning is ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to weaker allylic CH bonds. Similar ODH mechanisms are suggested for Mo and W oxides. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion correlate with adsorption enthalpies and transition state species. Lower activation energy for propene combustion decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with Lewis acid strength, impacting k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O often preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves (1). Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis (2). However, the low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use (3). Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, leading to selectivity issues (6). The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds in alkanes contributes to their stability (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst-alkane affinity is essential for CH bond activation (11, 31). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic supports like alumina enhance activity (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion (23). Site isolation improves selectivity (50). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance (25, 29). Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26, 30).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is optimized through careful selection of catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, tailored to the specific alkane. Catalysts' performance is influenced by the type of alkane, reaction conditions, and the presence of promoters. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial for high selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Acid-base properties and the type of oxygen impact the ODH reaction's efficiency. The choice of catalyst and reaction conditions must align with the alkane type for optimal results. Chlorine ions and ethoxide ions play critical roles in ethene yield and olefinic intermediate formation, respectively. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior is correlated with different vanadium species, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions are significant. The acid-base character of catalysts influences the rate of olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox properties are influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox behavior. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the metal oxide support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH. The nature of active and selective sites in ODH remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including supported metal oxides, where the degree of agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties impact performance. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with optimal VOx domain sizes, balance activity and accessibility, affecting selectivity to olefins. COx formation in ethane ODH is due to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of reduced centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 enhance selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Site isolation is key for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by V, Cr, and Mo additives without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion peak around 700°C. Low surface areas favor C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, producing CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, leading to optimal VS+/V4+ ratios. Supported oxide catalysts require characterization techniques like XANES and EXAFS to understand the local symmetry and coordination number of active sites. The optimization of ODH processes involves monitoring the right size of active sites, adjusting material morphology, and regulating the site size and ion ratios through the addition of elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts, promoting selectivity. C-H bond activation produces a propyl radical, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures and reducible catalysts promoting surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation. These factors collectively enhance process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is critical for selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production mainly from CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 yields are higher in ethane OXD than in methane coupling due to different radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in catalyst regeneration. This mechanism addresses selectivity issues by isolating active sites, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation of ethane, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration under H2 evolution. Chromium's local structure significantly impacts the mechanism, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity, are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting the process's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, a mechanism with a high activation energy, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, exhibit varying reactivities, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity issues. Site isolation is not explicitly discussed but is implied in the comparison of surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights the activation process and factors governing catalytic efficiency, covering unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, detailed kinetic studies, and proposed mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been suggested, involving specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests that localized active sites should be considered with caution. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, where lattice oxygen atoms are crucial. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond, requiring significant electron density in oxide domains. The position of the LUMO energy level affects the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons, impacting catalytic efficiency. Larger domains with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity stabilize transition states, enhancing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize materials for catalysis beyond chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to electron transfer during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies correlate with higher turnover rates, indicating the importance of electron affinity in catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selectivity issues arise as CH bond activation sites for ODH and alkene combustion are identical, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species are critical for catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility being essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with some processes using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from CH4 conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The high stability of alkanes, attributed to their electronic structure, poses challenges in industrial processes. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to selectivity issues due to the ease of product oxidation. CH bond cleavage is the initial step in hydrocarbon transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Catalyst reactivity determines the reaction rate of surface intermediates. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation state, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst reduction mechanisms and the nature of the reducing molecule influence activity and reducibility disagreements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalyst type, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Understanding these factors is crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Supported Cr ions, reactive toward alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water, are influenced by the support type and composition, affecting their coordination and polymerization degrees under reducing conditions. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their molecular structure determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base characteristics, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior, essential for selective catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, with isolated Me cations, exhibit improved performance. Vanadium oxide catalysts' reduction during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic activity. COx formation in ethane ODH is linked to adsorbed oxygen species. Site isolation is crucial for high selectivity, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity. Additives like P, K, and alkali metals modify acid-base and redox properties, influencing selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts' activity is lower than vanadia-based catalysts, with Mo surface density impacting ODH rates. The activation of CH bonds through alkoxide formation is key to ethylene production. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, impacting electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industrial chemistry, faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using specific catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion, niobium oxide shows high selectivity, though conversion is low. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, effectively producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, impacting process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions. Active site size and properties significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Active sites for oxidation are 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size influences catalytic properties. Supported oxide catalysts require dynamic consideration under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants and preparation procedures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts demonstrates. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, forming a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with propene selectivity linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves CH3 and C2H5 radical formation, with C2H4 yields being twice as high as from methane due to different pathways. Over Li/MgO, 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion is achieved, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the interplay between catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This approach addresses the challenges of achieving high selectivity and conversion in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism aligns with a Mars-van Krevelen redox process, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction. The process comprises C-H activation, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction mechanism is sensitive to the local structure of chromium, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a key role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions between radicals, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges highlight the role of site isolation in selectivity, although explicit discussion of site isolation is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, emphasizing the role of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. The TMP method yields high-performance propane ODH catalysts. Site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, influences reactivities by managing metal atom arrangement. Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO serve as support materials, while site isolation is key for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons at well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are detailed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems providing unique mechanisms to overcome activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion issues arise from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single theory dominates. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including hydrogen abstraction and the involvement of lattice oxygen. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, crucial for selectivity. Catalysts' properties, such as electrical conductivity, help identify active oxygen species. Efficient catalysts, like VPO, are p-type semiconductors, while VSbO is n-type, transforming to p-type under propane. The active site often involves isolated vanadium species near cationic vacancies, stabilizing O) species for alkane activation. The M1 phase, with a network of MO6 octahedra, activates alkanes on vanadium sites, with resonance leading to surface O) for hydrogen abstraction. The interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms significantly influences process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) entails primary and secondary reactions, with reaction rates influenced by residence time. Catalytic turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. These findings highlight the interplay between catalyst properties and ODH efficiency, emphasizing the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by cation identity, shows increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance with Mo oxides. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Extensive research on methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has yielded poor results. N2O is sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Our recent study reveals Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling. We've achieved high C2 compound yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting abundant but less reactive alkanes to more valuable products underlines the challenge of their activation in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder than for unsaturated hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity under typical ODH conditions. Catalysts play a pivotal role, with the initial activation of the C-H bond requiring affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Reducible oxides or dopants are necessary for molecular oxygen activation. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Catalyst properties, such as the presence of Te or Pd, can significantly influence performance and selectivity, with Pd's high affinity for H2 contributing to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal efficiency. The interplay between these factors is critical for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane ODH. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites in ODH reactions is still under discussion, influenced by vanadium species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (Quote 2). Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH (Quote 4). The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9). The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the need for site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is an attractive process for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity in propane conversion, though conversion rates are low. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to an optimal point. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role in selectivity, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Structure sensitivity and the size of active sites are crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts demonstrates. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly impact catalytic activity and selectivity. EPR studies show that activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking at specific ratios. Selectivity in ethylene and propene increases with copper content, reaching maxima before declining. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is analyzed, focusing on catalysts, challenges, mechanisms, and optimization. Best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane ODH yields are more than twice those of methane due to different pathways for radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates reactions, highlighting the importance of catalysts and radical pathways in ODH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in the selective oxidation of lower alkanes, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers, resulting from this process, reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. This mechanism addresses the challenges of achieving high conversion and selectivity in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. The NiCo molybdate system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, potentially enabling direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has been explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, results in the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests that CH activation by oxidative addition is unlikely for dehydrogenation in this system. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, highlight the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, emphasizing the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method facilitates the production of high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions and future trends summarized.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Efficient catalysts feature properties that facilitate alkene oxidation, such as strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [1] The search for catalysts for light alkane partial oxidation is a promising but difficult challenge. [2] Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. [5] The aim is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts. [6] The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. [7] Different mechanisms have been proposed for light alkane activation. [20] The more probable catalytic site involves two hydrogens abstraction and the transfer of one electron from the hydrocarbon to a vanadium cation. [34] The alkane activation can be related to the p-type semi-conducting properties of the solids, likely through hydrogen abstraction by a surface O) species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in VOx and MoOx domains. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, reflected in the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, influences relative ODH and combustion rates. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH reactions requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is attributed to metal reducibility and active oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane conversion to valuable chemicals like methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often using N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to C2 compound production via radical coupling. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves (1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis (2). The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates offers an attractive alternative (3). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues (6). Alkanes' high stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation (11). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support is more effective (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion (23). Site isolation improves selectivity (50). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation state, affecting performance (25). Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of the alkane affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features collectively impact ODH efficiency. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters also affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center influences the reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees influenced by the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the influence of the support. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting selectivity. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, affecting selectivity to propylene and ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, offers efficient alkene production. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to a point. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, crucial for these reactions, can be cationic for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction, requiring efficient electron and oxygen species transfer. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, as it stabilizes specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalyst studies show. Reaction pathways vary by catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity increases with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with specific copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. CH3 and C2H5 radicals activate similarly, but subsequent pathways differ, leading to higher C2H4 yields from ethane OXD than from methane coupling. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity. The process efficiency is influenced by the interplay of catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and site isolation strategies.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with OH bond strength influencing reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands affects electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This optimization is crucial for achieving high conversion and selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, CH bond activation is irreversible, leading to propene desorption. OH recombination steps are reversible and quasi-equilibrated, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Two lattice oxygens participate in CH bond activation, with the resulting alkyl species desorbing as propene. The remaining OH group recombines with neighboring OH groups to form water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize by irreversible O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses the selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation aiding in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity and yields. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity at improved conversions, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. By preventing undesired side reactions and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, catalyst design and site isolation are crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has been explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed. β-hydrogen transfer is necessary for the catalytic cycle completion. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, shed light on catalyst reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. Special attention is given to the activation process and active/selective sites. Kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are analyzed. The review integrates conclusions and future trends in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, and the search for such catalysts is a promising challenge. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested, and the role of superoxide or peroxo species has been proposed, although they should not be stable in the presence of the alkane. The activation of the first CH bond involves very reactive oxygen that is weakly bound, and weakly adsorbed O) can play a role. However, very weakly bound surface O) can promote CC cleavage and total oxidation. The interplay between catalysts, challenges, mechanisms, and process optimization collectively influences the efficiency of the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to oxide domains' electron acceptance ability during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports impact k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to its chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as a catalyst that effectively abstracts hydrogen from CH4 to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their large reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics or oxygenates is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and influences selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and surface intermediates' reaction speed are critical. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains high ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Acidic properties of oxides depend on cation charge and radius. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may relate to bulk vs. surface reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. As shown, vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, and the nature of the support affects the formation of acid and basic centers, influencing olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkane ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area, but catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high olefin selectivity. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkane ODH remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, with ongoing investigation into the reaction mechanism and selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    