Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, but optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The use of N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can significantly affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Incorporating high vanadium contents in hosting structures can sometimes lead to structural instability. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane ODH rates increasing with Mo surface density up to a certain point. The size of MoOx domains affects the Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is significant but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion with high activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide, though low in propane conversion, shows high selectivity, enhanced by adding V, Cr, and Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors promote selectivity by resisting reduction, a key to preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to about 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, avoiding CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to ODH optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts greatly influence catalytic properties, is a key concept. Supported systems, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, exhibit different catalytic behaviors based on the support's nature, affecting the size and properties of active sites. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often show acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species exhibit better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts demonstrates. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites' number in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, enhancing ethylene and propene selectivity at optimal ratios. Ethane conversion is more pronounced at higher copper contents, possibly due to CuO crystallites affecting ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with specific copper(II) sites, while propane conversion is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is linked to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is crucial for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting their efficiency. The reaction mechanism involves the activation of alkanes on metal oxide surfaces, forming alkyl radicals. For CH4, the dominant pathway in the presence of O2 is the formation of CH3 radicals, leading to ethane and ethylene, while for C2H6, the pathway leads to higher yields of C2H4. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 is less than in CH4, resulting in faster reaction rates and higher C2H4 yields in ODH compared to oxidative coupling of CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role due to their selective oxidation capabilities. The strength of the MO bond and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influence the reactivity and efficiency of the process. Optimizing these electronic properties can enhance selectivity and conversion. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion or direct propane combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The reaction mechanism aligns with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, involving two lattice oxygens for irreversible CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation from OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through irreversible O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, suitable for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a mechanism for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, involving a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, highlighting the role of site characteristics in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Challenges include achieving high conversion and selectivity, influenced by C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by introducing isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, affecting the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied for their impact on well-defined iron sites in selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It explores hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, including unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by researchers (Quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step (Quote [2]). However, achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways (Quote [3]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote [6]), with various activation mechanisms proposed (Quote [7]). Selectivity issues can be addressed by site isolation, stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species (Quote [15]).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as observed for VOx, MoOx, and RuOx domains. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends on electron transfer to the cluster, influenced by the LUMO energy level. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly affects ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2 showing lower activation energies and higher reaction rates for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion compared to MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2. The Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to Mo6+ to W6+, correlates with the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as demonstrated by the trends in ODH rates and selectivity ratios on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions shares sites with CH bond activation in alkene combustion, impacting selectivity strategies. The greater reactivity of propene is attributed to the strength of its allylic CH bond compared to propane's weakest CH bond. These findings highlight the role of catalyst properties in ODH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to produce valuable chemicals has faced low yield challenges, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent findings show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, leading to the coupling of these radicals to produce C2 compounds. This catalyst's success under conventional conditions has significantly improved C2 compound yields.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is more difficult due to their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with the alkane surface is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility results in higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of the alkane affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining a molecular mechanism is challenging and requires advanced techniques (Quote 3). Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield (Quote 12). Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' performance in alkane ODH is significantly affected by the support (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6), while site isolation is crucial for high selectivity (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites enhances selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11). These factors collectively influence ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, while supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates and 1-alkene formation via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is an attractive process for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane ODH, with conversion enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by temperature and surface area. Higher temperatures up to about 700°C enhance C2 selectivity and conversion. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Active sites, their size, and electronic properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Structure sensitivity and the size of active sites, as seen in MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts, are critical for catalytic selectivity and activity. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. For instance, in doped vanadyl pyrophosphates, the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedure, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. C-H bond breaking is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation aids in selectivity issues, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene due to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry in the gas phase. Ethane production is mainly from CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane's OXD yields C2H4 more efficiently than methane due to different radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with the strength of the MO bond being critical for selective oxidation. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, propene is the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, consistent with normal kinetic isotopic effects for dehydrogenation and combustion. The reaction mechanism aligns with the Mars-van Krevelen redox model, involving two lattice oxygens for irreversible CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption. The remaining OH group recombines to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize by O2 chemisorption, illustrating the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with the process sensitive to the local structure around chromium. Site isolation is key in addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdate systems offer a stable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by preventing undesired side reactions and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely mechanism. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, which is relevant to site isolation and selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, particularly when high surface areas and homogeneities are achieved, as seen in the TMP method. Site isolation, a strategy to control catalytic site structures, is pivotal for selectivity, influencing the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation. This approach enhances catalyst performance and selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring bulk and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties that govern catalytic efficiency. It analyzes the hydrocarbon activation process, active and selective sites, and reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Kinetic studies and future trends are summarized, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step but struggling with selectivity and conversion. The complexity arises from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including the role of specific sites with unique properties. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, aiding selectivity. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion issues, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation that overcome the activation step, and the search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps. The identity of the metal and the support's reducibility significantly influence LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane playing a role. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Other factors, including adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties of oxides and supports, influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH reactions requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is similar to Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent lab findings show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts, modified by niobia, Te, or Pd, enhance ethylene selectivity. The initial C-H bond activation by the catalyst is critical. Acid/base features of oxides depend on cation charge and radius, affecting acidity. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are influenced by bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal efficiency. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support play critical roles in the acid and basic center formation, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for selective catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. The nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modify the catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH is still under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the influence of the support. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, and additives like P, K, Ca, Ni, Cr, Nb, Mg, Au, Zn, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures and the presence of both acid and redox sites, as in VCoAPO-18, are key for high selectivity to ethylene and propylene. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve vanadium site selectivity by resisting reduction, which prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to intricate reaction mechanisms involving C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Oxygen species transfer and the interplay between different active sites are essential for process efficiency. Site isolation facilitates the stabilization of active sites that favor desired reactions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary with acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly impact activity and selectivity. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is vital for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), catalysts like metal oxides play a pivotal role, achieving up to 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on the catalyst surface and radical chemistry in the gas phase, with ethane production mainly from CH3 radical coupling. Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, enhancing efficiency. Ethane OXD, facilitated by catalysts effective in methane oxidative coupling, shows higher C2H4 yields due to the dominance of C2H5 + O2 reactions over coupling. A Li/MgO catalyst achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of catalyst choice. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 compared to CH4 accelerates reaction rates, underscoring the impact of bond strength on ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are crucial, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing the MO bond strength for intermediate levels enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. Chromium site structure significantly impacts the mechanism, with site isolation aiding in selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates are alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity. The distribution of active sites, affected by catalyst design, impacts selectivity, and site isolation prevents undesired side reactions by limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, which indirectly addresses selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, influences catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity and controlling reactivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms as alternatives to direct dehydrogenation. It highlights the activation process of hydrocarbons and factors governing catalytic efficiency, including catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, and kinetic studies provide insights into the reaction mechanisms. Conclusions outline future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. The properties of these species do not fit the requirements for efficient alkene oxidation, suggesting their presence is related to structure defects. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various supports and reducible oxides, indicating a universal mechanism for ODH.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity plays a critical role, with higher acidity leading to greater differences in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies also impact relative rates. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility being essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, yet their conversion is economically significant. Selective conversion of paraffins to various products is crucial for chemical industries. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary sites are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Kinetic models and molecular mechanisms are essential for understanding the reaction, with vanadium-based catalysts showing varied behavior. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions decompose to olefins or further to CO and CO2. Catalysts' acid-base character affects olefin formation and desorption rates. The nature of alkane influences reactivity and catalyst selection, with reaction conditions also playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with easier reduction on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state, and presence of acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. The nature of the support and vanadium loading modifies catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. The reaction mechanism and nature of selective sites remain under discussion, with ongoing efforts to understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation is a key factor in efficient catalyst design, as seen in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx structure and properties, influencing CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for converting alkanes to alkenes, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used but have low yields; supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. High temperatures favor gas phase reactions. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, affecting dehydrogenation vs oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, Mo enhances activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion peak around 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, avoiding CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites stabilizing specific reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by lattice oxygen mobility and wetting effects, is essential for understanding their functioning. Site isolation and the right size of active sites are monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, leading to optimized VS+/V4+ ratios and enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene, as Moro-oka and Ueda demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts, may require BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact activity and selectivity. Higher copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation is key for selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts play a pivotal role, with the best ones achieving 20% methane conversion and 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxide surfaces and free-radical chemistry in the gas phase. Ethane production is primarily through the coupling of CH3 radicals. The yield of C2H4 and C2H6 is limited by secondary reactions. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation yields more C2H4 than methane oxidative coupling due to different pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals in the presence of O2. Over a Li/MgO catalyst, a C2H4 selectivity of 77% was achieved at a C2H6 conversion of 75%. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 results in greater reaction rates with C2H6, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are key catalysts, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing the MO bond strength for intermediate levels can enhance selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, while reversible OH recombination steps form water. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with three steps: C-H activation forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and impacts the distribution of active sites, affecting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are key in preventing undesired side reactions by controlling the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has been explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation in this system. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, have been compared for reactivity. Site isolation, while not explicitly discussed, may influence selectivity by affecting the reactivity of these surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal in materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied for their role in site isolation, impacting the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's catalytic conversion via oxidative dehydrogenation, an alternative to direct dehydrogenation. It emphasizes catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, with a spotlight on hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors. The text covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and discusses catalyst composition, operating conditions, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, surface basicity, and other factors. It explores active and selective sites, analyzes kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, and summarizes conclusions and future trends. [1] and [2] highlight the importance of catalytic systems and factors governing efficiency in the process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. The properties of these species are crucial for alkene oxidation, and their presence in catalysts is related to structure defects. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. A complete model of the reaction process must consider the dynamics of the surface, adsorbed species, and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, affecting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains, requiring transition states that introduce electron density. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires the same sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) shows high activity for hydrogen abstraction from methane to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, is highlighted by their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to various chemical products is challenging due to their low reactivity, which has preserved them over time but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity as products may readily oxidize. The CH bond's cleavage is crucial, with secondary and tertiary carbons being more reactive. Catalyst affinity with the hydrocarbon surface promotes activation and determines selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability are also crucial. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity, with niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts enhancing redox properties and selectivity to ethylene. The oxidation state of vanadium, promoted by Te or Pd, affects performance. The affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Efficiency is impacted by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure influenced by the support type, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties (1,2). Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes (3). Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites are critical for catalytic behavior (4). Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading (6,7). Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes, increasing olefin formation (8). VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity in ODH reactions (9-12). The nature of active and selective sites remains under investigation, despite various catalytic systems studied (5,11,15). Monolayer systems help optimize active site dispersion and understand support influence (13,14). The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts (16).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, where supported metal oxides' performance is affected by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic properties. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate vanadium oxide loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures impact the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, emphasizing the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity and activity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity by preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methane's hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, forming methyl radicals that couple to ethane, which can be further oxidized to ethylene. High C2 selectivities and conversions are favored at elevated temperatures, with low surface areas directing CH3. towards O2- ions, yielding CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are linked to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2, exhibit different catalytic properties depending on the nature of the support and the loading of the active component. Monomeric species often show acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species display better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is crucial for understanding their functioning. Characterization techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can help in understanding the structure of active sites on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalyst studies show. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios influence catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity increases with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. CH3 and C2H5 radical pathways differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the influence of bond strength on process efficiency. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields, emphasizing the need for optimized catalysts to enhance selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation leading to propene formation, with OH recombination steps being reversible. The process aligns with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where lattice oxygens activate CH bonds, resulting in propene desorption and water formation through OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, illustrating the catalyst's role in process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, offering direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, is crucial for controlling radical formation and improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired interactions between radicals, potentially enhancing selectivity. The distribution of active sites, influenced by catalyst design, impacts selectivity, and site isolation prevents certain intermediates from accessing reactive sites, further optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism requires a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states, forming an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy, around 220 kJ mol-1, suggests this is an unlikely dehydrogenation route. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges highlight the role of site properties in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, emphasizing the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity on activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites and kinetic studies are analyzed, providing insights into the hydrocarbon activation process. Conclusions outline future trends in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems providing mechanisms to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including sites with specific properties. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. A complete model of the reaction process must consider surface dynamics and larger clusters of atoms. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) significantly impacts the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energy differences, influenced by cation Lewis acidity, dictate relative reaction rates. Selective ODH is hindered by the shared sites required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their large reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical products. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is difficult due to their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd promote different oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are crucial for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. Acid and basic centers depend on the support and additive basicity, influencing olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar chemistry, with mobile Cr ions reactive toward alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr redox properties. Under reduction, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for catalytic behavior. These factors are essential for developing selective catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide is influenced by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. The different catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts relate to V-species' coordination and environment modifications, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. However, the reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts' characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic states, as highlighted in [1]. In ethane ODH, COx formation is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species ([3]), and vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction ([2]). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity ([4]), and the formation of binary dispersed structures affects VOx domains' reduction and catalytic properties ([5]). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide ([6]). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design ([7]). In VCoAPO-18, acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity ([8]). Catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based ones ([9]). Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates ([10]). Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties ([11]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH is a critical reaction, facing the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. While bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, or Mo boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction, compared to vanadium, enhances selectivity by preventing facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are pivotal. Active sites, such as cationic sites for substrate oxidation and sites for dioxygen reduction, must facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. Site isolation is essential for stabilizing specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Understanding these factors is crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalyst studies show. Pathways vary in sensitivity to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, with Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, controlling active sites' distribution, is crucial for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The initial activation step for CH4 and C2H6 is the formation of alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. The subsequent pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice as large as those from CH4 due to the absence of an analogous route to stable products for CH3 radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 is less than in CH4, resulting in substantially greater reaction rates with C2H6. This understanding aids in optimizing the process for higher selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these electronic properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary or direct combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation from OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure around chromium. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization. The reaction proceeds through C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, highlighting the role of local structure in influencing mechanism and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity and yields. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired side reactions by controlling radical-radical interactions and the distribution of active sites, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals that CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is a proposed mechanism, but its high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes it unlikely for dehydrogenation. The literature compares different Cr(III)silica surface sites, indicating the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. This analysis highlights the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, emphasizing the need for optimized catalyst design in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method yields high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting reactivity and selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are examined for their role in site isolation, which is pivotal for the reactivities of materials such as bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane through oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, reaction mechanisms, and efficiency factors. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms. The review concludes with insights into future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step but struggling with selectivity and conversion. The complexity arises from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, as seen in VPO or VSbO-based systems. The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising but challenging area in heterogeneous catalysis. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites, necessitating a comprehensive modeling approach. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and help characterize structure defects and active oxygen species. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion issues, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the cation identity significantly influences pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity impacts CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, limiting selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion correlate with Lewis acid strength (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production by coupling two ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, is highlighted by their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence V oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Kinetic models and molecular mechanisms are essential for understanding the reaction, with chlorine ions playing a key role in ethene yield. Catalysts' active center coordination and environment affect the reaction path, and vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species. The nature of the support and additives influences acid and basic centers, impacting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure influenced by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly affects vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting C2-C4 alkane catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in ODH reactions. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity, while V-containing molecular sieves are selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the support, but the ODH reaction mechanism and selective sites are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    