Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides showing varied performance based on metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (Quote 2). The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (Quote 4), with the formation of binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for converting alkanes to alkenes, faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is key for alkene production, notably ethane to ethene using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, which outperforms other mixed-metal oxides. Propane conversion to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives without selectivity loss. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, crucial for preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are linked to intricate reaction mechanisms involving C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role; isolated sites can stabilize specific reactions over undesired side reactions, enhancing selectivity. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts, with peculiar fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules crucial for optimal catalytic performance. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and composition influence catalytic properties. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can be used to better characterize these 'clusters' on the surface, aiding in understanding their role in catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly affect catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, yielding 58%. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. CH3 and C2H5 radicals follow different pathways in the presence of O2, with C2H4 yields being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields, especially on the catalyst surface and in the gas phase.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with the strength of the MO bond determining reactivity. The efficiency of the process can be improved by optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, specifically the MO bond strength, which should be intermediate for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity, and is key to addressing selectivity issues in the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation impacts selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to the local structure of chromium surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity and yields. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for retaining high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, is essential for controlling radical formation and improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation can prevent undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by managing the distribution of active sites and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex and the necessity for β-hydrogen transfer. The literature compares the reactivity of Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, although this is not explicitly discussed. These insights contribute to the optimization of ODH processes by identifying less effective mechanisms and emphasizing the importance of site isolation for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for improved performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation crucial for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons at well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane via oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and factors governing efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, conditions, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic and mechanism analysis, is explored. Conclusions and future trends are summarized, addressing how these factors collectively impact process efficiency and the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by researchers. Efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems have been developed to overcome the activation step, crucial for the process. However, achieving high selectivity and conversion remains difficult due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms involve sites with specific properties, but their presence in oxidation catalysts should be related to structure defects. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. A complete modeling of the reaction process would necessitate encompassing the dynamics of the surface and adsorbed species, as well as sites constituted of larger clusters of atoms and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by the effects of residence time on alkenes and COx formation. Catalytic turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting ODH and combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion. Other factors, like adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance to Mo oxides. Activation energy for ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent lab findings show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This process facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation, is highlighted by their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical products. Alkanes' low reactivity, due to their high stability, has hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' high stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the first step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support has a greater effect. Higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, explaining different performances. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, play a critical role in selectivity and conversion. Different alkanes require specific catalysts for optimal performance. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are essential for understanding selectivity issues. Site isolation can enhance selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters significantly affect ODH performance. The efficiency of the ODH process is a collective result of these factors, with conditions like temperature and contact time also impacting selectivity and activity. Understanding these interactions is crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide support significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties for C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in ODH of short chain alkanes. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The coordination and environment of V-species modify redox properties, influencing catalytic behavior. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing that vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for ODH of short chain alkanes are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' reactivity is significantly affected by the support (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6). Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts (Quote 7), as seen in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Vanadia-based catalysts are generally more active (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates and 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). Site isolation is key for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. Vanadium sites in VNbO catalysts have improved selectivity due to niobium neighbors, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by reaction temperature. High C2 selectivities are favored at lower surface areas, as reacting CH3 with surface O2- ions predominantly leads to CO and CO2, highlighting a selectivity challenge. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, often involving metal ions and oxygen species, play a critical role in the reaction. Site isolation is essential for selectivity, stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5, exhibit different catalytic properties depending on the nature of the support, with monomeric species often showing acidic features and polymeric species exhibiting redox properties. Optimization strategies include careful control of the active site size and the environment to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalyst study shows. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively enhance the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions boost propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves catalysts like metal oxides, which activate C-H bonds, forming alkyl radicals. For methane, the best catalysts achieve 20% conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. Ethane production is mainly through CH3 radical coupling in the gas phase. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions on the catalyst surface and in the gas phase. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 is less than in CH4, leading to faster reaction rates. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps and normal kinetic isotopic effects for propane and propene combustion are observed. This mechanism highlights the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, impacting process efficiency. The reaction proceeds through C-H activation, H transfer leading to ethene loss, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr. Notably, Cr retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdate systems a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by controlling radical-radical interactions and the distribution of active sites, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a potential ODH mechanism, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point. However, the high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges highlight the role of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity, although explicit discussion of site isolation is lacking. This analysis addresses the interplay between catalysts and reaction mechanisms in ODH, emphasizing the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This approach is pivotal in addressing selectivity issues and optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The review also explores active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, concluding with future trends. [1] [2]", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems crucial for alkane activation. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with rates influenced by residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalyst turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences pathways, with VOx/ZrO2 showing lower activation energies and higher reaction rates for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion than MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) impacts the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, affecting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. These insights highlight the role of catalyst properties in ODH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves (1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis (2). The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (3). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, leading to potential selectivity issues (6). The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds in alkanes protects carbon atoms, making CH bond cleavage the first step in hydrocarbon transformation (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation (11). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion (23). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance (25). Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalyst type, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by these factors. For instance, vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the coordination number of the active center influences the reaction path. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize to CO and CO2. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with easier reduction on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties (Quote 1, 2). Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH (Quote 3). Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior (Quote 4). Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength and thermal stability (Quote 6). Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation (Quote 8). Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH (Quote 9). V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation (Quote 10). The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support (Quote 14). Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and support influence (Quote 13). The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal valence state, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives enhance propane activation. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity increasing with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. High temperatures required for ODH favor gas phase reactions. Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by resisting facile reduction, which often leads to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, to overcome challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are pivotal. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2, exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and nature of the active sites. Monomeric species often show acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is crucial for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts, where the number of such sites correlates with propylene yield. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, leading to a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact activity and selectivity. EPR studies show enhanced catalytic activity with increased copper in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with C2H4 and C2H6 yields limited by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD, using catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions, achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The initial step for both CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation, but subsequent pathways differ, influenced by the presence of O2. The MIESR system identifies C2H5 radicals, and the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with the strength of the MO bond and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands determining reactivity. Optimizing these electronic properties, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism involves two lattice oxygens activating CH bonds in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with a mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by restricting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates, thus optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is unlikely due to a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, are compared for reactivity, which indirectly addresses selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, emphasizing the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method facilitates the creation of high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting the efficiency of propane ODH. Studies on Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO supports reveal site isolation's role in reactivity and selectivity of iron sites for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, covering catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Active and selective site nature, kinetic insights, and reaction pathways are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple reaction pathways without desorption. A common activation site could improve light alkane selective oxidation. The process efficiency is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity by stabilizing active species intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx, impacting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates, limited by the reduction step, activate the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states, enhancing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design beyond chemical composition, affecting LMCT energies and turnover rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to electron acceptance during reduction events, crucial for alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 were studied, revealing that activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, with reaction rates decreasing accordingly. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence ODH and combustion rates. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1  ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to produce useful chemicals has low yields, often using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive and thus preserved over time, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, making their activation more difficult than that of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative, highlighting the need for efficient catalysts. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the importance of in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues as products may be readily oxidized under activation conditions. The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. The affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface is crucial for the initial activation of the CH bond. Selectivity is determined by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Catalyst reactivity affects the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Molecular oxygen activation requires a reducible oxide, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a more significant impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of the support influence ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. The addition of niobia modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% of V4, accounting for different performances. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. The surface acid/base features of oxides depend on the cation's charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in connecting activity and reducibility can be attributed to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms including C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation aids in selectivity. Reaction conditions and specific alkane features affect process efficiency. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the environment of the active center influences the reaction path. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, and ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize. Catalysts' acid-base character affects olefin formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. However, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing that vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. Selectivity and conversion are key challenges, with site isolation playing a critical role in addressing selectivity issues. Reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, formation of M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Catalysts like vanadium oxide show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, but optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces challenges due to faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Site isolation is key for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high activity and selectivity. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, enhanced by adding V, Cr, and Mo, improving activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors promote selectivity by making vanadium sites harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to about 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated metallic ion sites insufficient for the reaction's complexity. The presence of distinct active sites, one for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction, is crucial. Oxygen species transfer and electron transfer are facilitated by the material's structure. The nature of metal-oxygen bonds affects the reaction, with polarized bonds enabling electrophilic or nucleophilic properties. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported systems, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/anatase, exhibit structure sensitivity, with monomeric species favoring acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. The role of the support material, such as silica or alumina, influences catalytic behavior through its isoelectric point, affecting the adsorption of anions and thus the size of active sites. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active site distribution, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. Ethane's weaker C-H bond strength (422 kJ mol-1 vs. 439 kJ mol-1 for methane) and different radical pathways result in higher C2H4 yields from OXD than from methane oxidative coupling. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields and the need for high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are key catalysts, with MO bond strength influencing reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of these catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH efficiency. Site isolation can improve selectivity by preventing secondary reactions that lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism involves two lattice oxygens activating CH bonds in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, consistent with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. The NiCo molybdate system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is pertinent to addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, especially in propane ODH. High surface areas and homogeneities in catalysts are vital for enhanced performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly impacts selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, demonstrate the importance of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It explores unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. Active and selective sites are discussed, along with detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The process begins with oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms involving specific sites have been suggested. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, aiding selectivity. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and characterize structure defects, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations significantly influences ODH pathways, with activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increasing from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, particularly V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, dictates the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, impacting ODH and combustion rates. Selective ODH is hindered by the shared sites required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential for selective ODH, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting the highest activity due to its reducibility and basicity of lattice oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic value due to their large reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in activating alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, due to their high stability and low reactivity, which has historically limited their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative, yet catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions and its impact on catalytic performance are critical areas of research, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is more challenging than other hydrocarbons, leading to potential selectivity issues as products may be readily oxidized under activation conditions. The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. The CH bond energy is highest for primary carbons, making secondary and tertiary carbons more reactive and C3 hydrocarbons more susceptible to activation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. The activation of molecular oxygen requires a reducible oxide, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, significantly affecting activity. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers, but oxidation state under reaction conditions does not always match reducibility. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Doping with Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, accounting for different performances. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. The initial activation of the C-H bond by the catalyst requires an affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. The surface acid/base features of oxides depend on the cation's charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in connecting activity and reducibility may be due to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is alkane-dependent, affecting reactivity and selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, are critical. Vanadium-based catalysts, with varying vanadium species, show different behaviors. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. The environment of the active center affects the ODH path. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Acid-base character influences olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active, selective sites. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Despite studies, active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium and molybdenum oxides, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes and are affected by the support and additives. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate vanadium loadings, while COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of catalytically significant centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and the size of MoOx domains. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). ODH on bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yields low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (paraphrased from Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (paraphrased from Quote 7). High temperatures required for ODH, especially of ethane, can favor gas phase reactions (paraphrased from Quote 8). CH bond activation leads to Malkyl intermediates, decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (paraphrased from Quote 10). Selectivity for dehydrogenation vs oxygenated products correlates with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation (paraphrased from Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is an attractive process for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst excels in activity and selectivity compared to other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity in propane ODH, with conversion enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, Al2O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of active site size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as shown for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary with acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios, studied by EPR, reveal enhanced catalytic activity with increased copper concentration in thoria. Selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. The mechanism involves alkyl radical formation, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. Unlike CH3 radicals, C2H5 radicals preferentially react with O2, leading to higher C2H4 yields in OXD compared to oxidative coupling of CH4. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process efficiency by minimizing secondary reactions that limit yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance process efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation is proposed to address selectivity issues by preventing secondary reactions that lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. CH bond activation steps are irreversible, while OH recombination is reversible. The mechanism aligns with a Mars-van Krevelen redox process, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, illustrating the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the efficiency sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr. Notably, Cr retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired reactions by controlling radical-radical interactions and the distribution of active sites, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has been explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, leads to the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges, have been compared for reactivity, hinting at the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal in the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation crucial for the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, along with detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, emphasizing hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency. Future trends are also summarized, providing a comprehensive analysis of the process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. [Quote 2] highlights the efficiency of VPO or VSbO-based systems, while [Quote 3] emphasizes the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions. [Quote 5] aims to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts, and [Quote 17] mentions several mechanisms involving different sites for the first step of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with increased reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies and higher electron affinity lead to exponential increases in propane ODH turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, influenced by cation Lewis acidity, affect relative ODH and combustion rates. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, impacting selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to mirror that of MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with cation Lewis acidity, significantly affect k3/k1 ratios. Catalyst activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) are influenced by metal reducibility and lattice oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) with O2 effectively abstracts H from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2H6 and C2H4 production through radical coupling, achieving high C2 compound yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, yet their conversion is economically significant. Selective conversion of paraffins to various products is a source of many chemical goods. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for activation, and selectivity depends on hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface species stability. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O use enhances C2-oxygenate selectivity, related to oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates, affecting activity dramatically. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF, though not correlating with oxidation state. Acid-base and redox properties impact ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Catalyst modifications, like adding niobia or Te/Pd, alter redox properties and increase selectivity to ethylene. Catalyst affinity for H2 influences ethylene selectivity. Surface acid/base features depend on cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may stem from bulk vs. surface reduction and reducing molecule nature.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is alkane-dependent, affecting reactivity and selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also influence selectivity and activity. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Vanadium-based catalysts, with varying vanadium species, show different behaviors, influenced by the support's nature and basicity of additives. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is influenced by the support type and composition, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling the redox properties of Cr ions. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their molecular structure determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination and aggregation, along with acid/base sites, are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported vanadium oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity to olefins. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (1). Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes that balance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (2). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (4), with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH (7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (9).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, offers efficient alkene production. Niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane to propylene, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The reaction mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms include C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, collectively influencing process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. Active site size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts, such as MoO3 and V2O5, exhibit different catalytic properties based on the support and the size of the active sites. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- show acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways vary with acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with increased copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry. Ethane ODH yields higher C2H4 than methane coupling due to differing radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. Site isolation in catalysts enhances selectivity by preventing secondary reactions, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a pivotal role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, is key to enhancing ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with the process sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity. These catalysts are alternatives to V-based systems for light paraffin activation and show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH processes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation in catalyst design are key to optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites as a potential route for catalytic dehydrogenation. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) suggests this mechanism is unlikely for dehydrogenation. The literature compares the reactivity of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges, highlighting the role of site isolation in catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly impacts selectivity. The TMP method, enhancing surface areas and homogeneities, can optimize propane ODH catalysts. Site isolation, by introducing isolated catalytic centers on oxide supports, improves control over catalytic site structure, generating site-isolated catalysts. This strategy is vital for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that govern catalytic efficiency. The nature of active and selective sites is explored, and detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms are discussed, including conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with the complexity arising from numerous simultaneous reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, are crucial for overcoming the activation step of alkanes. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is difficult due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests that the concept of localized active sites should be considered with caution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced electron density acceptance. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions requires the same sites as those involved in alkene combustion, limiting the effectiveness of selective poisoning strategies. The greater reactivity of propene is attributed to the strength of its allylic CH bond compared to propane's weakest CH bond. These factors collectively influence process efficiency and selectivity in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been low, with N2O often preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This suggests C2H6 and C2H4 production via radical coupling. We've achieved high C2 compound yields from CH4 under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which has historically hindered their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is pivotal, necessitating the development of in situ characterization methods. The activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, limiting selectivity. The CH bond's high stability, particularly in primary carbons, requires a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface for activation. Catalyst reactivity, surface intermediates' reaction speed, and the presence of reducible oxides for molecular oxygen activation are critical. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility improve activity, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. Doping with Te or Pd modifies redox properties, affecting the oxidation state of vanadium, which influences ethylene selectivity. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. The initial activation of the CH bond by the catalyst is crucial, influenced by the cation's charge and radius, affecting the oxide's acidity. Discrepancies in connecting activity and reducibility can be attributed to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Catalyst choice depends on the alkane type, affecting selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates are critical. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Efficiency is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging, requiring advanced techniques. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. Acid-base character of catalysts affects olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees influenced by support type and composition. Chromium oxides anchor onto the surface post-calcination, reacting with hydroxyl groups, and their structure is determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The nature of the support and vanadium loading modifies catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The coordination and environment of V-species in bulk and supported vanadia catalysts affect redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal support influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    