Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, the valence state of the metal cation, and the electronic properties of the solid (1). Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes that balance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (2). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (4), with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (6). Site isolation is a key factor in the design of efficient catalysts for alkane ODH, affecting selectivity (7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge (quote 2) that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (quote 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 (quote 4) yield low results, whereas supported systems (quote 5) and specific catalysts like MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO (quote 6) offer higher selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (quote 7), leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates (quote 9) and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism (quote 10). Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation (quote 11), correlating dehydrogenation vs oxygenated product formation with site distance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity and activity compared to other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being less reducible, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increasing up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, offering a unique approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Parameters like reducibility and reoxidizability are crucial for catalytic reactions. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size influences catalytic properties. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts shows. Reaction pathways are sensitive to the acid-base nature of catalysts, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified in the MIESR system. The pathway for ethyl radicals differs from methyl radicals, leading to higher C2H4 yields in OXD reactions compared to methane oxidative coupling. The C-H bond strength in C2H6, lower than in CH4, results in faster reaction rates. This demonstrates the interplay between catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in selective oxidation, with the MO bond strength determining reactivity. Optimizing the electronic properties of catalysts, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene desorption. Reversible OH recombination forms water and reduced Mo centers, which reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, influenced by the local structure around chromium. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, with the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium's local structure impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, suitable for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are key strategies in catalyst design to optimize ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed. β-hydrogen transfer is necessary for the catalytic cycle. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, exhibit varying reactivities, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity issues. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is implied in the context of comparing surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. The review also delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but a common activation site for efficient catalysts is sought. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, as highlighted by quote [2]: 'Efficient catalysts are those such as VPO or VSbO based systems that provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation that clearly overcome the activation step.' The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions is acknowledged in quote [3]: 'The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways, each of them with several reaction steps occurring on the adsorbed phase without desorbing.' The goal is to propose a common activation site, as stated in quote [5]: 'The goal of this paper is to attempt to propose a common activation site to several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation.'", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with decreasing reaction rates (VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2). Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered as CH bond activation sites are shared with alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production by coupling two ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their activation difficulty, underscores their potential as a source for various chemical products (Quote 1). The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which limits their industrial use (Quote 6). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, play a crucial role in the selective conversion of alkanes, with properties like acidity and redox affecting conversion (Quotes 22, 24, 25). Reaction conditions, including the use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen, can enhance selectivity in the formation of C2-oxygenates (Quote 35). The presence of water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (Quote 39). Site isolation improves selectivity, highlighting the importance of controlling the interaction between the alkane and the catalyst surface (Quote 50).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial for selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Efficient ODH requires careful catalyst selection linked to alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be oxidized further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path, and vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. Acid and basic centers, influenced by the support and additives, impact olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with various molecules. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, different Cr oxidation states can be present, depending on support properties. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength and thermal stability. However, catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems are studied to optimize active site dispersion and understand support influence.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts' characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane ODH rates increasing with Mo surface density. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, albeit with low conversion, which improves with V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by resisting facile reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature boosts C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts greatly affect the reaction, is a key concept. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and arrangement influence catalytic properties. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants and preparation procedures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalyst study shows. Reaction pathways vary by catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as the number of these sites correlates with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios influence activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking ethylene and propene selectivity at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity stems from substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the efficiency of ODH over oxidative coupling. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified in MIESR systems. CH3 and C2H5 radical pathways differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the importance of site isolation and catalyst choice in addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This analysis highlights the interplay between catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the reaction mechanism aligns with the Mars-van Krevelen redox model. Two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH groups recombine to produce water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses the challenges of selectivity and conversion, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation of ethane forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. Chromium surface site structure significantly influences the mechanism, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 catalysts are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are an alternative to V-based catalysts, showing potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a potential ODH mechanism, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. However, the high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 makes this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, highlight the role of site characteristics in reactivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, and high surface areas and homogeneities are crucial for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, plays a key role in controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. The TMP method produces catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities, improving propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation is vital for controlling the structure of catalytic sites and generating site-isolated catalysts, impacting the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties that influence catalytic efficiency. It analyzes the hydrocarbon activation process, active and selective sites, and reaction mechanisms, including kinetic studies. Conclusions highlight future trends in ODH optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with significant challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems have been developed to overcome the activation step, a crucial process phase. However, the multitude of possible reaction pathways and steps occurring simultaneously on the adsorbed phase without desorption complicates selectivity and conversion. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation. The first step of the transformation of the alkane molecule corresponds to an oxidative dehydrogenation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with catalytic functions independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx catalysts supported on ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, with corresponding decreases in reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, affecting π bonding of alkenes on oxide surfaces, influences the relative rates of propane ODH and propene combustion. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions requires the same sites as those for alkene combustion, limiting selective poisoning strategies. The greater reactivity of propene is due to the strength of its allylic CH bond compared to propane's weakest CH bond.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, yet their conversion is economically significant. Selective conversion of paraffins to various products is crucial for chemical industries. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the first step in transformation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affect selectivity and conversion. Different alkanes require specific catalysts for optimal performance. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH reaction performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Understanding these factors is essential for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit high mobility and reactivity towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling the redox properties of Cr ions. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ can be present, with their coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support type and composition. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, and their molecular structure is determined by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading influence catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, aiding in understanding support influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, crucial for high selectivity. Isolated active sites are key in catalyst design for efficient alkane ODH. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites enhances selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density affecting ODH rates. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is key for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, influenced by temperature and surface area. Higher temperatures up to about 700°C enhance C2 selectivity and conversion. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Active sites, whether isolated or part of clusters, must facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. The nature of the metal-oxygen bond, influenced by the oxidation state and coordination structure, determines the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of the oxygen ion, affecting the reaction pathway. For instance, nucleophilic oxygen ions interact with C-H bonds, while electrophilic oxygen ions interact with double bonds or aromatic rings. The concept of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial, with the number of atoms constituting these sites affecting catalytic properties. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, related to the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. The right size of active sites is monitored by reactants in catalytic conditions, leading to the optimal ratio of oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively enhance process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with C2H5 radicals identified in the process. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength enhances reaction rates compared to methane. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 yield, with C2H6 offering higher yields than methane due to different radical pathways.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary or direct combustion. CH bond activation is irreversible, leading to propene desorption, while OH recombination is reversible. The reaction mechanism aligns with the Mars-van Krevelen redox model, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation, alkyl species desorption as propene, and reduced Mo centers reoxidizing through O2 chemisorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to the local structure around chromium. Site isolation is pivotal in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in catalytic reactions, influencing pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer to complete the cycle. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely. The text compares the reactivity of Cr(III)silica sites with varying oxygen bridges, touching on site isolation's role in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO demonstrate the importance of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties that influence catalytic efficiency. Special attention is given to hydrocarbon activation and active/selective sites, with detailed analysis of kinetics and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is difficult due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to find a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including sites with specific properties. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by catalyst properties. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. These findings are consistent across various supports and reducible domains, indicating a universal trend in ODH catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies influence ODH and combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and combustion requires the same sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar site requirements for ODH and combustion suggest different transition state structures. The activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide's (Li/MgO) efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, yielding C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in activating alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, due to their high stability and low reactivity, which limits their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is hindered by their stability, leading to non-selective oxidation and selectivity issues. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducibility for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with vanadium-based catalysts showing promise for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance, with Pd's high affinity for H2 enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Reaction conditions, acid-base properties, and oxygen type impact ODH efficiency. Chlorine ions, for instance, are crucial for high ethene yield. The nature of the alkane affects not only reactivity but also catalyst selection. Acid-base character of catalysts influences olefin formation and desorption rates, affecting overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions exhibit similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules. Their redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with easier reduction on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ can form, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. Post-calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity and olefin formation. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains unclear. The catalytic properties of vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, yet the reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides (1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (2). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (4), with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH (7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key to achieving high selectivities to ethylene during ethane ODH (8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (9). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is significant but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism (Quote 9, 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This novel catalyst system enhances ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from complex mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, such as cationic centers for substrate oxidation and dioxygen reduction sites, are crucial. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity. Oxygen ions exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic properties, affecting catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- show acidic features, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly influence selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts demonstrate that the size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical for the reaction considered and the support used.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts shows. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts play a pivotal role, with the best ones achieving 20% methane conversion and 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and gas-phase free-radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of catalyst choice. The C-H bond strength difference between C2H6 and CH4 influences reaction rates, with C2H6 reactions being faster. The initial activation step for both CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation, but subsequent pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, affecting product yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a pivotal role, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, highlighting the importance of site isolation for efficient process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with a mechanism comprising C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for retaining high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and limit unwanted side reactions, thereby improving selectivity. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions by limiting reactive sites for certain intermediates, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is unlikely due to a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1. This mechanism requires a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point between Cr(III) and Cr(V) spin states. The unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex necessitates β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, indirectly addresses the role of site isolation in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts, offering site isolation for better control over catalytic site structure. Site isolation is crucial for reactivities in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied for their role in site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity on activity and selectivity. Active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions and future trends summarized.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process, challenging both industry and academia in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems have been developed to overcome the activation step, crucial for the process. Achieving high selectivity and conversion remains difficult due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been suggested, involving specific properties like strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. The properties of these species do not fit with those required for efficient alkene oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, challenges in selectivity and conversion, and proposed reaction mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. The UV-visible absorption edge energy correlates with LUMO energy levels and electron affinity, impacting catalytic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 were examined, revealing that activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, with reaction rates decreasing accordingly. Rates depend on CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Other factors, like adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, influencing k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1  ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity account for catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as the oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their large reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The challenge lies in activating these stable molecules, as the conditions required can lead to non-selective oxidation, limiting selectivity. The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalysts play a pivotal role, with the affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface being crucial for activation. Catalyst reactivity, influenced by the hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, determines the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species promote non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species favor selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducible supports increase activity, with higher reducibility correlating with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of the support affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity, and the addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene. Understanding the interaction between the alkane and the catalyst surface is essential for efficient alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH efficiency. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also affect selectivity and activity. Vanadium-based catalysts, with different vanadium species, show varying behaviors, influenced by the support's nature and additives' basicity. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path, impacting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character of catalysts, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. The different catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment modifications, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation. The paper aims to summarize catalytic results and understand active and selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts' characteristics, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, like vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, but optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is mainly due to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). Selectivity is correlated with site isolation, highlighting its importance (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures with high selectivity and activity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additions without affecting selectivity. Niobium's resistance to reduction in VNbO catalysts boosts selectivity by preventing facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion peak at around 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and nature of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, such as MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, Al2O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of active site size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by studies on MoMgO catalysts [1,15]. Pathways vary in sensitivity to catalyst acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking likely homolytic [16]. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption [17], while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed [18]. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites [19]. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios impact process efficiency. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, catalytic activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity. The initial step for both CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation. However, subsequent pathways differ, with C2H4 yields being more than twice those from CH4 due to the absence of an analogous route to stable products for CH3 radicals. The C-H bond strength in C2H6 is less than in CH4, leading to faster reaction rates. This understanding aids in optimizing the process by focusing on catalysts that favor C2H4 production over secondary reactions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these electronic properties can enhance process efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This approach addresses the challenges of high selectivity and conversion, aligning with proposed mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding catalyst regeneration. This mechanism supports high selectivity and conversion, addressing challenges in the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium sites, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, which retains high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is discussed. This mechanism, with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, is unlikely for dehydrogenation. The ethylhydridochromium(V) complex formed is unstable, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, are compared for reactivity, though site isolation's role in selectivity is not explicitly detailed.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, particularly in propane ODH, due to their high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the thermolytic molecular precursor (TMP), is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity, and improving overall process efficiency. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, optimizing the structure of catalytic sites and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation also influences the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where the spatial arrangement of metal atoms is key to defining reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied for their role in site isolation, which is essential for the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It explores unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. Active and selective sites are analyzed, and detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms are discussed, including hydrocarbon activation and factors governing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion issues arise from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, have been proposed. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts' properties, such as p-type semiconductivity, influence the reaction mechanism. For instance, ZrP2O7 and TiP2O7, under air, are p-type semiconductors, abstracting hydrogen to activate alkanes. Upon contact with n-butane, they become n-type, affecting the reaction pathway. VSbO catalysts, containing VSbO4, undergo redox cycles, transforming from n-type to p-type semiconductors under propane, impacting catalytic activity. The M1 phase, with a network of MO6 octahedra, activates alkanes on vanadium sites, with resonance forms leading to surface O) species for H abstraction. Dopants, like Co, influence the VPO catalysts' properties, maintaining a higher surface distribution of V, P, and O atoms. Efficient alkene oxidation requires specific properties not found in typical species, suggesting a role for structure defects. Surface dynamics and collective properties of the solid are crucial for a complete understanding of the reaction process. Electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can design materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies, associated with lower LUMO states, lead to higher ODH turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the sequence of activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion is VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) influences the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies determine relative rates, with the activation of CH bonds in ODH requiring the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2), essential for selective ODH. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are key for optimized ODH rates and k2/k1, k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to produce useful chemicals has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves (Quote 1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis (Quote 2). The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use (Quote 3), but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates presents an attractive alternative (Quote 4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (Quote 5). Paraffin activation is challenging due to their high stability, leading to selectivity issues (Quote 6). Alkane stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in transformation (Quote 7). Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive (Quote 8). Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation (Quote 11). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (Quote 10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (Quote 12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen (Quote 14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (Quote 16). Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (Quote 19). Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect (Quote 20). Reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (Quote 21). Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion (Quote 23). Site isolation improves selectivity (Quote 50). Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity (Quote 24). Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance (Quote 25). Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (Quote 26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, play a crucial role, with selectivity and activity depending on the type of alkane and reaction conditions. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, affect process efficiency. Site isolation can enhance selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center affects the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions to optimize ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, characterized by high mobility and reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states are present, influenced by support type and composition. These factors are pivotal in understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes and optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are key active and selective sites. The coordination and aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, alongside acid/base sites, significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported vanadium oxides offer advantages like enhanced mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides boosts selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Active site nature and selective sites in ODH reactions remain under investigation, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems are studied to optimize active site dispersion and understand support influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes that balance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, and COx formation in ethane ODH is mainly due to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design. In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used but have low yields (Quote 4), while supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 5). Various systems show high selectivities, with CH bond activation as the rate-determining step (Quote 6, 7). High temperatures are needed, favoring gas phase reactions (Quote 8). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction (Quote 9, 10). Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a certain point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting the formation of CO and CO2. This Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, offering a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves complex reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, which challenge high selectivity and conversion. Catalysts, such as bulk metal oxides and supported systems, play a critical role. Active sites, including cationic sites for substrate oxidation and sites for dioxygen reduction, are essential. The interplay between these factors influences process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts shows. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively enhance the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity in ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is key to optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, yielding 58% efficiency. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry, with CH3 and C2H5 radicals coupling differently in the presence of O2. C2H4 yields from OXD are twice those from methane coupling, due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation impacts selectivity, with the reaction sensitive to the local structure around chromium, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for retaining high selectivity. NiCo molybdates are alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, holding promise for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, is pivotal in controlling radical formation and improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps manage radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity, and impacts the distribution of active sites, preventing undesired reactions by restricting access to certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, which involves a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. The literature compares different Cr(III)silica surface sites, indicating the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. While site isolation is not explicitly discussed, its role in enhancing selectivity can be inferred from the comparison of surface sites with varying oxygen bridges to the silica surface.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method, by producing high surface area and homogeneous catalysts, optimizes propane ODH efficiency. Site isolation strategies, such as introducing isolated catalytic centers on oxide supports, refine site structure and generate site-isolated catalysts, impacting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, analyzing catalytic systems, kinetics, and mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity. The nature of active sites and their role in activity and selectivity is explored, with detailed analysis of reaction mechanisms. Key conclusions and future trends are summarized, providing insights into process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for light alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species and characterize structure defects. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Turnover rates are influenced by the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons, correlating with LMCT energies. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion reveal different transition state structures. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to produce valuable chemicals has low yields, often using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their large reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical products. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is difficult due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the first step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation, affecting selectivity. Catalyst reactivity determines surface intermediates' reaction speed. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity. Catalyst-alkane affinity is essential for C-H bond activation. Acidic properties of oxides depend on cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing acidity. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may be due to bulk vs. surface reduction and reducing molecule nature.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Selectivity and conversion are determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Catalyst choice and reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, are critical for process efficiency. Acid-base properties and the type of oxygen also impact ODH performance. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    