Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity is correlated with site isolation, highlighting its importance (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity, as it prevents low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling, with selectivity and conversion peaking around 700°C. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivities, as higher areas lead to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The nature of the metal ion and its environment, including the coordination structure and oxidation state, determine the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of oxygen ions, which in turn affect the activation of C-H bonds. Site isolation plays a critical role in enhancing selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts exhibit different properties based on the support's isoelectric point, affecting the adsorption of monomeric or polymeric anions. The size of active sites, such as MoO2- or VO43- species, influences catalytic properties, with low-size polymeric species showing better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than larger species or bulk oxides. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, involving lattice oxygen mobility and the wetting effect, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts shows. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, forming a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). Catalytic activity rises with increased copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites that hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to these ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, is key to enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, yielding 58% C2H4. The initial step for both CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation. However, subsequent pathways differ, with C2H4 yields from OXD being more than twice those from methane oxidative coupling due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 (422 kJ mol-1) versus CH4 (439 kJ mol-1) accelerates reaction rates. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields, affecting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role in selective oxidation, with the strength of the MO bond influencing catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance ODH process efficiency. Site isolation may improve selectivity by preventing secondary reactions that lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene as the primary product, with CO and CO2 formed via secondary combustion. The mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and OH recombination to form water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. This Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism highlights the role of site isolation in selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction. The mechanism comprises C-H activation, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. Site isolation of chromium impacts selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and improve selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically helps in controlling radical-radical interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by preventing undesired side reactions and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route for dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges to the silica surface, are compared for reactivity, indirectly touching on the role of site isolation in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts excel in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is pivotal in the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation crucial for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's catalytic conversion via oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact the process. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic studies and mechanisms, are analyzed. The review concludes with insights on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions, characterizing structure defects and active oxygen species. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies increasing as acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of active oxides and supports influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH reactions requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to Mo oxides. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion determine k3/k1 ratios, with ΔE1  ΔE3 values aligning with the Lewis acid strength of V5+, Mo6+, and W6+ cations. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent findings show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though economically significant due to their large reserves, are challenging to activate compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, impacting their industrial conversion. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but also hindered their use. Direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity. CH bond cleavage is the first step in hydrocarbon transformation. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity. Catalyst reactivity influences the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, while dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Surface acid/base features depend on the cation's charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility can be attributed to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by the nature of the alkane, catalyst type, reaction conditions, and specific alkane features. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging and requires advanced techniques. Kinetic models are used to analyze experimental data and proposed mechanisms. The choice of catalyst must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions. Different catalysts, like reducible transition metal oxides and B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P, show varying performance for different alkanes. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. Ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize to CO and CO2. The coordination number of the active center affects the ODH reaction path. The environment of the active center can vary, impacting the process. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the formation of acid and/or basic centers depend on the support and additive basicity. The rate of olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption depends on the acid-base character of the catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes that balance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Incorporating additives modifies acid-base and redox properties, enhancing catalyst performance. Site isolation is a key factor in achieving high selectivity, as demonstrated in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites are crucial for high ethylene selectivity during ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with Mo surface density affecting ODH rates. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is significant but faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities (Quote [2], [3]). While bulk metal oxides like V2O5 perform ODH, yields are low (Quote [4]). Supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote [5]). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote [7]). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote [9]), and an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote [11]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is attractive for alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts outperform other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, with enhanced activity through V, Cr, Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a key factor in preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst for ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Site isolation plays a critical role in selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported systems, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/anatase, exhibit different catalytic properties based on the nature of the support and the size of the active sites. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts [1,15]. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical [3]. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption [4], while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed [9]. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites [13], supported by in-situ FT-IR studies [14]. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. EPR studies show increased catalytic activity with higher copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, inhibiting ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane conversion is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is linked to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is critical for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts like metal oxides play a crucial role, achieving up to 20% methane conversion with 80% selectivity for ethane and ethylene in a single reactor pass. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on the catalyst surface and radical chemistry in the gas phase, with CH3 radicals coupling to form ethane. Ethylene yields are limited by secondary reactions on the catalyst surface and in the gas phase. Ethane ODH, using catalysts effective for methane oxidative coupling, follows a similar initial activation step forming C2H5 radicals. However, subsequent pathways differ, with ethylene yields being more than twice as large as those from methane due to the absence of an analogous stable product route for CH3 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% ethylene selectivity at 75% ethane conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane compared to methane results in substantially greater reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This approach addresses the challenges of high conversion and selectivity, aligning with proposed mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water, contributing to the reaction's efficiency. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with three steps: C-H activation forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites, with site isolation aiding in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with significant molybdenum content, are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. The NiCo molybdate system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, showing potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions between radicals, potentially enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting overall selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are key strategies in catalyst design to optimize ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, which involves a high activation energy, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. The literature compares the reactivity of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity. The high computed activation energy for this mechanism, around 220 kJ mol-1, suggests CH activation by oxidative addition is not a viable route for dehydrogenation in this system.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation impacts reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, analyzing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms (Quote [1]). It highlights factors governing catalytic efficiency (Quote [2]), discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, surface basicity, and other factors. The review also explores active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, concluding with future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including the role of specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests caution in the concept of localized active sites. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify active oxygen species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms collectively influence process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. The identity of the metal and the reducibility of the support significantly impact LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, influenced by cation identity, shows that VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 have increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with adsorption enthalpies playing a significant role. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is hindered by the shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion are influenced by adsorption enthalpies and transition state species. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is attributed to metal reducibility and oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant due to their large reserves, despite being more challenging than unsaturated hydrocarbons. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical products. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity and reactivity are key, with surface intermediates' reaction speed influenced by catalyst reactivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also affect selectivity and activity. Vanadium-based catalysts, with their varying species, show different behaviors, influenced by the support's nature and additives' basicity. Efficient ODH requires careful consideration of these factors for optimized process outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules. Redox behavior is influenced by support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support type and composition. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide supports significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Selective catalyst development in ODH hinges on these factors. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is contingent on the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, exhibit high olefin selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains a topic of discussion. Bulk vs. supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and elucidate support influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are ongoing research topics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including supported metal oxides with varying degrees of agglomeration, valence states, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, achieving optimal performance with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Selectivity to propylene increases with higher surface reduction. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures impacts the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be linked to work function values. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a significant reaction, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. High temperatures, necessary for ODH, favor gas phase reactions. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane conversion to propylene, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, though conversion is low. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to about 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. The reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, presenting challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated metallic ion sites insufficient for the reaction's complexity. Two distinct active sites are necessary: one for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction. The size and nature of these sites, such as MoO3 and V2O5, significantly impact the catalytic properties, with monomeric species often exhibiting acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, allowing for the stabilization of specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. Structure sensitivity, reducibility, and reoxidability of the oxides are important parameters for catalytic reactions. The size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical, with low-size polymeric species often exhibiting better selectivity than larger species or bulk oxides. Oxidation catalysts must be considered dynamically under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation is homolytic, yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface enhance activity, and substitutional sites improve propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, demonstrating high efficiency. The initial step for CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation, but subsequent pathways differ. C2H4 yields from OXD are more than double those from methane coupling due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a critical role, with the strength of the MO bond determining catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance selectivity and conversion. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. Reversible OH recombination steps form water, impacting selectivity and conversion. This mechanism addresses the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, specifically ethane over Cr(III)silica, involves a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. The process efficiency is influenced by the local structure of chromium sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity. This mechanism is sensitive to the chromium's local structure, impacting the overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdate is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and holds promise for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation and limit unwanted side reactions, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions between radicals, improving selectivity by managing the distribution of active sites and limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, a mechanism with a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, exhibit varying reactivities. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is implied in the comparison of these sites, which may influence selectivity and conversion in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation also influences the reactivities of materials such as bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement on the surface is key for defining reactivity. The TMP method's ability to produce catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities is crucial for optimizing propane ODH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane via oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and various conditions affecting activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been suggested, involving specific properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. The properties of these species do not fit with those required for efficient alkene oxidation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step. Oxide domains' ability to accept electron density, influenced by LUMO energy levels, significantly impacts catalytic activity. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies, can accept more electrons, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, determined by domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences ODH pathways, with activation energies and reaction rates following the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) impacts the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as demonstrated by the catalytic activities on VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions requires the same sites as those for alkene combustion, affecting selectivity strategies. The greater reactivity of propene is attributed to the strength of CH bonds. The chemical resemblance between Mo and W oxides suggests a similar ODH mechanism. The apparent activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion, influenced by adsorption enthalpies and transition state species, lead to different k3/k1 ratios. The reducibility of metal centers and the basicity of active lattice oxygen species are crucial for catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields have been low, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, is highlighted by their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation harder, limiting selectivity. The CH bond's cleavage is the first step in hydrocarbon transformation, with secondary and tertiary carbons being more reactive. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Te and Pd doping influences the oxidation state, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for C-H bond activation. Oxide acidity increases with the cation's oxidation state. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may be due to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is optimized through careful selection of catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, tailored to the specific alkane. Catalysts' acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and presence of promoters significantly impact ODH performance. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial for high selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. For instance, vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be oxidized further. The coordination number and environment of the active center also play a role in the ODH path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, characterized by high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Chromium oxides, after calcination, anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Selective catalysts in ODH reactions depend on these factors. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but are influenced by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH is still under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are related to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides' performance affected by metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and the number of reduced centers is determined by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The use of N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7). Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). Selectivity for dehydrogenation over oxygenated products correlates with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, efficiently produces alkenes, notably ethene from ethane. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane to propylene conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a key to high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated sites stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and structure of their active sites, with monomeric species favoring total oxidation and low-size polymeric species showing better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Site isolation and the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions are essential for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane selectively oxidizes to propylene over catalysts with BrSnsted acid sites, as Moro-oka and Ueda demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways vary in sensitivity to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and the number of such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios enhance catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% combined ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry in the gas phase. Ethane production is mainly from CH3 radical coupling, with yields limited by secondary reactions. Ethane's OXD yields are higher than methane's due to the absence of an analogous stable product route for CH3 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, demonstrating the role of catalysts in process optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a pivotal role, with the strength of the MO bond and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing these properties can enhance ODH efficiency, particularly by achieving intermediate MO bond strength for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This understanding aids in addressing the challenges of high selectivity and conversion, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by two lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. Site isolation of active sites enhances selectivity, addressing a key challenge in the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, following a mechanism with three steps: C-H activation forming OH and CrC bonds, H transfer leading to ethene release, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and product yields. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity at enhanced conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a crucial role in reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, including the use of supported systems and site isolation, helps control radical formation and improves selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation specifically aids in controlling radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity, and prevents undesired reactions by limiting the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "A comprehensive analysis of ODH reveals the mechanism of CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a potential route for dehydrogenation. However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes this mechanism unlikely. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges, exhibit varying reactivities, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity issues. While site isolation is not explicitly discussed, its importance in addressing selectivity challenges is acknowledged.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts excel over others, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, improves selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, affecting reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides. Support materials Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetics, and mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like catalyst composition, reducibility, and surface properties that affect activity and selectivity. Active sites, reaction kinetics, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in ODH process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems providing mechanisms to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of the oxidic phase and active oxygen species involved in catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalyze ODH through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance catalytic activity, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, the identity of cations on VOx, MoOx, and WOx supported on ZrO2 significantly impacts ODH pathways. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, consistent with observed trends on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. The activation of CH bonds in alkane ODH reactions requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selectivity strategies. The greater reactivity of propene is attributed to the strength of CH bonds. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes used as an oxidant. Recent findings show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts H from CH4 to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two gaseous ·CH3 radicals, producing C2H6 and C2H4 (C2 compounds) in high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation is economically significant despite its difficulty compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is challenging due to their stability, affecting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 boosts ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, alkane type, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Efficiency is affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also influence ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center affects the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules. Redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are pivotal for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. However, catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the influence of supports. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show activity in ODH, with optimal performance achieved through intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives can influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step (Quote 7), leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes through β-H abstraction (Quote 9). Site isolation correlates with selectivity, highlighting its importance in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, offers efficient alkene production. Mo16V4Nb2 outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in ethane conversion to ethene. Niobium oxide, while low in propane conversion, shows high selectivity, improved by V, Cr, Mo additions. Site isolation, specifically niobium's resistance to reduction, enhances selectivity in VNbO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to a point, while low surface areas favor C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, offering a new approach to alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are related to complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The interplay between these factors and the nature of the metal ion, its oxidation state, and environment significantly impact the process efficiency. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of the active sites are critical for controlling selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. These findings highlight the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process efficiency. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified by MIESR. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength (422 kJ mol-1 vs. 439 kJ mol-1 for methane) accelerates reaction rates, impacting selectivity and conversion. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by controlling radical coupling and oxidation on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a key role, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands influencing reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the MO bond strength, can enhance process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption. OH recombination steps are reversible, forming water and aiding in the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the efficiency sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is key to addressing selectivity issues, impacting the overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity, are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. This system is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a significant role in influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent undesired interactions, potentially enhancing selectivity by controlling the availability of reactive sites for certain intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is explored. This mechanism, characterized by a formal double oxidation of chromium and a minimum energy crossing point, leads to the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying numbers of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, highlight the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, although explicit discussion of site isolation is limited.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, demonstrate the importance of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on the catalytic conversion of n-butane via oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, efficiency, and reaction mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties. Active and selective sites, kinetics, and mechanisms are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends. Special attention is given to hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including strong Bronsted acidity, Lewis acidity coupled with basic oxygens, or electrophilic species. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of oxidic phases and active oxygen species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. [2] Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. [3] The complexity arises from multiple reaction pathways. [4] No single mechanism stands out. [5] The goal is to propose a common activation site. [6] The first step is oxidative dehydrogenation. [7] Different mechanisms have been proposed. [8] Species properties do not fit efficient alkene oxidation. [9] A complete modeling of the reaction process is necessary. [10] Electrical conductivity can identify the conduction mechanism. [11] Oxygen can perturb the charge carrier concentration. [12] p-type semiconductors have excess lattice anions. [13] n-type semiconductors have a deficit in lattice anions. [14] The structure consists of edge-sharing VO6 octahedra. [15] The primary activation involves a methylene CH bond rupture. [16] Lattice oxygen is involved in activation. [17] Several mechanisms involving different sites have been proposed. [18] (VO)2P2O7 is a p-type semiconductor. [19] The existence of vanadium sites with a vanadium vacancy is improbable. [20] The more probable catalytic site involves two hydrogens abstraction. [21] Two neighboring close sites allow methylene H abstraction. [22] The role of superoxide or peroxo species has been proposed. [23] O) species are involved in the activation of n-butane. [24] O) species involvement has been suggested thermodynamically. [25] Activation involves very reactive, weakly bound oxygen. [26] Weakly bound surface O) promotes CC cleavage. [27] The same observation was made for titanium pyrophosphate. [28] Dopants influence the catalytic properties of VPO catalysts. [29] Co favors a higher V5+/V4+ ratio. [30] ZrP2O7 and TiP2O7 are p-type semiconductors. [31] They become n-type when contacted with n-butane. [32] These results explain the different catalytic reaction mechanisms. [33] The alkane activation can be related to p-type semi-conducting properties. [34] On ZrP2O7, the catalytic site will only abstract one hydrogen. [35] On TiP2O7, the mechanism changes with temperature. [36] Different activation energies and butene ratios are observed. [37] The probability of abstraction is a function of relative abundance. [38] The mechanism involving an adsorbed intermediate is governed by thermodynamics. [39] VSbO catalysts contain several phases, with VSbO4 being the active phase. [40] Its structure is derived from TiO2 rutile-type. [41] VSbO4 is an n-type semiconductor. [42] It becomes a p-type semiconductor after reduction under propane. [43] The active catalytic site corresponds to isolated vanadium species. [44] Such arrangement stabilizes O) species for alkane activation. [45] The structure of the active M1 phase has been solved. [46] It corresponds to a network of MO6 octahedra. [47] The activation occurs on vanadium sites. [48] The activity is explained by charge transfer leading to a surface O). [49] This O) performs H abstraction from the alkane molecule. [50] A second step involves methyl abstraction. [51] The M1 phase remains an n-type semiconductor. [52] Charge transfer may not be the only way to generate active O) sites. [53] Mo5+ were identified due to substitution disorder. [54] This feature leads to the reduction of one Mo6+ atom. [55] Taking into account Eq. (2), this could be expressed by the following equation: Mo6 Nb  O2 ! Mo5 Nb  O. [56] However, this pathway should likely be minor.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalytic turnovers proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the increased reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events. These findings parallel trends in stoichiometric reduction rates and LMCT absorption edge energies, indicating a mechanistic connection between ODH rates and electronic spectra of dispersed oxides.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting ODH and combustion rates. The activation of CH bonds in ODH requires sites similar to those in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species correlate with catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios, impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes preferred over O2 as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite being less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, hold significant economic interest due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates presents an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation challenging, limiting selectivity. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for initial activation, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, and dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion and increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with higher reducibility leading to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity with alkanes and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst selection and reaction conditions, like temperature and contact time, significantly impact process efficiency. Acid-base properties and the type of oxygen also affect ODH performance. Reducible transition metal oxides and other catalysts like B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P have been studied. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be oxidized to CO and CO2. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the ODH reaction path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying catalyst behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support play a significant role in the formation of acid and basic centers, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported chromium (Cr) on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with Cr ions being highly reactive and mobile, interacting with various molecules. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being easier to reduce on softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in different oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkane ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, increasing olefin formation. Specific catalysts like vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites in ODH reactions is still under discussion, with ongoing efforts to understand these aspects.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including supported metal oxides, where the degree of agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties impact performance (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH is enhanced with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal performance is achieved with intermediate-sized VOx domains (Quote 2). Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH (Quote 4), and the formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH is a significant reaction facing the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities. While bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes through β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane ODH to propylene, employing niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity from facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, A12O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of cluster size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, as evidenced by Moro-oka and Ueda's work on MoMgO catalysts, requires BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, while selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane and ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides and radical chemistry in the gas phase. Ethane's conversion to ethylene is more efficient due to lower C-H bond strength and the formation of C2H5 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions boosts C2H4 selectivity to 77% at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides play a crucial role, with the OH bond strength determining reactivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly the intermediate strength of the MO bond, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism is proposed, where two lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds in propane, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH groups recombine to form water, and reduced Mo centers reoxidize by O2 chemisorption. This mechanism addresses the challenges of achieving high selectivity and conversion, highlighting the importance of site isolation in improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica models involves a mechanism with C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation influences selectivity, and the mechanism's sensitivity to the local structure of chromium highlights the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and yields. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for retaining high selectivity at improved conversions. This system is an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), surface-generated gas-phase radicals play a key role, influencing reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly the use of supported systems and site isolation, can control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation helps prevent radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity, and affects the distribution of active sites, impacting the process's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites has been explored. This mechanism requires a high activation energy, around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation in this system. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, have been compared for reactivity. Site isolation, while not explicitly discussed, may influence selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for improved performance. Site isolation plays a key role in controlling catalytic site structures, influencing selectivity. The TMP method produces high-performance catalysts, and site isolation strategies improve control over catalytic site structure, generating site-isolated catalysts. Materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been studied for their role in site isolation, which is critical for the reactivities of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation of hydrocarbons also benefit from site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors, covering unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of composition, conditions, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, along with detailed kinetic and mechanism analysis, is explored. Conclusions and future trends are summarized, providing a comprehensive analysis of the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms have been suggested, involving specific properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. The properties of these species do not fit with those required for efficient alkene oxidation, suggesting a relation to structure defects. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. [1] The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a difficult but promising challenge. [2] Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. [3] The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. [5] The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts. [6] The first step of the transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. [7] Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. The reaction rate is limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, cation identity significantly impacts ODH pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting cation Lewis acidity, influence relative ODH and combustion rates. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to mirror that of MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with cation Lewis acidity, strongly influence k3/k1 ratios. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, observed in the trend of ODH rates and k2/k1, k3/k1 ratios on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic interest in converting alkanes, despite their difficult activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, is highlighted by their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and surface intermediates' reaction speed are crucial. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Modifying catalysts with niobia, Te, or Pd alters redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. The initial C-H bond activation by the catalyst is critical. Acidic properties of oxides are influenced by the cation's charge and radius. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are related to bulk vs. surface reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness depending on the alkane. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by these factors, with catalyst selection crucial for specific alkanes and reaction conditions. Understanding the molecular mechanism requires advanced experimental and computational techniques. Kinetic models are used to analyze experimental data and proposed mechanisms. The nature of the alkane affects reactivity and catalyst choice. Reaction conditions such as temperature and contact time also influence selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, with high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature, crucial for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity, as do V-containing molecular sieves in ethane and propane oxydehydrogenation. Active and selective sites remain under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia properties linked to V-species coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support, with ongoing research aiming to understand selective sites in vanadia catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    