Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are active in alkane ODH, with support significantly affecting reactivity. Binary dispersed structures alter the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties. Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts. In VCoAPO-18, acid and redox sites are crucial for high ethylene selectivity. Catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties. These factors impact ODH process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industry, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5, 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity for dehydrogenation vs oxygenated products is correlated with site distance, highlighting the need for site isolation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances selectivity, preventing low selectivity caused by facile reduction, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, yielding ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation, influenced by temperature. High C2 selectivities are favored at lower surface areas, impacting product distribution. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst addressing selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation without variable oxidation state metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates play crucial roles. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites, with the size and electronic properties of these sites impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. Optimizing ODH processes requires monitoring the right size of active sites, influenced by reactants and preparation procedures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Alkoxy species decomposition, requiring BrSnsted acid sites, leads to propene production, highlighting the importance of site isolation in selectivity. These factors collectively optimize the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "Varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene at optimal copper concentrations. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may limit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene is linked to copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions demonstrate high efficiency, achieving significant C2H4 selectivity at good C2H6 conversion rates. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal oxide surfaces, generating alkyl radicals. Ethyl radicals yield more than twice the C2H4 compared to methyl radicals for methane oxidative coupling, due to the lack of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. Site isolation optimizes the process by minimizing secondary reactions and maximizing desired product yields, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, collectively optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts primarily yields propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary combustion products. The mechanism follows Mars-van Krevelen redox theory, involving CH bond activation in propane, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, highlighting the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica involves C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with efficiency sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing activity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, particularly Cr for maintaining high selectivity. NiCo molybdate is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, showing potential for direct conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Site isolation in catalyst design limits radical-radical interactions, restricting reactive sites for intermediates and enhancing selectivity. Supported systems impact active site distribution, affecting overall selectivity. These strategies control radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica faces a high activation energy barrier of 220 kJ mol-1, leading to an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surfaces, particularly those with two and three oxygen bridges, enhances selectivity. Achieving high selectivity and conversion in ODH is challenging due to the need for β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. These insights highlight the role of site isolation and the limitations of the proposed reaction mechanisms in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in propane ODH, with high surface areas and homogeneities crucial for enhanced performance. Site isolation, facilitated by the TMP method, optimizes catalytic site structures, boosting selectivity. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, especially with well-defined iron sites, play a key role in selective hydrocarbon oxidation, impacting the reactivities of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions impacting activity and selectivity. Analysis covers active site nature, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, concluding with insights into future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with a multitude of reaction pathways, posing a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, are crucial as they provide mechanisms to overcome the activation step of hydrocarbon molecules. Achieving high selectivity and conversion rates is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally accepted. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, which could involve the stabilization of O) species allowing the activation of the alkane molecule. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species. Electrical conductivity measurements help in identifying active oxygen species and characterizing structure defects, which are essential for understanding the catalytic properties of materials. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms, making it a promising area of research for both industrial and academic researchers.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves primary and secondary reactions. Catalytic turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron acceptance ability of oxide domains during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity in VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 significantly impacts the process. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Propane ODH and propene combustion rates are governed by CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting cation Lewis acidity. Higher Lewis acidity increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion. Adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, along with acid-base properties of oxides and supports, influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion occurs on similar sites, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, consistent with trends observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields and sometimes requires N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This process, under conventional catalytic conditions, leads to high yields of C2 compounds via radical coupling.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves, making their conversion to more valuable products a research focus. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for the chemical industry. However, the high stability of alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, poses a challenge for industrial processes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues as products may be readily oxidized under activation conditions. The CH bond's high energy in primary carbons and the initial activation by the catalyst, requiring affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface, are pivotal. Catalyst reactivity, influenced by the hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, determines the reaction rate of surface intermediates. Molecular oxygen activation necessitates a reducible oxide, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species correlate with non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, with dramatic effects on activity. Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support is more effective. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers, but not necessarily with oxidation state under reaction conditions. Acid-base and redox properties of the support affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with alkane nature affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, are pivotal for selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters significantly impact ODH performance. Kinetic models are crucial for analyzing experimental data, and molecular mechanism determination requires advanced techniques. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions, as effectiveness varies among different alkanes. Site isolation addresses selectivity issues, and the coordination number of the active center affects the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows similar high reactivity and mobility toward various molecules (Quote 1, 2). Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports (Quote 3). Oxide supports act as ligands, controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions exhibit varying oxidation states influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting C2-C4 alkanes' catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites affect catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages, but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides' performance affected by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with V2O5 loading, optimal with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Reduced vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. N2O as an oxidant results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can lead to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical industrial process, faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Catalysts such as MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is a promising process for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst excels in activity and selectivity compared to other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, peaking at elevated temperatures. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation and coupling. Low surface areas favor C2 selectivities but may lead to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. Active site size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Active cationic sites oxidize substrates, while another site reduces dioxygen. Efficient structures facilitate electron and oxygen species transfer. Isolated metallic ion sites alone cannot account for all transformations, as oxygen anion vacancies, H atom extraction, and electron transfer are involved. Homolytic C-H bond fragmentation occurs via hydrogen transfer to the oxygen ion at -2 oxidation state, with concerted action breaking the metal-oxygen bond. Oxygen ions exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic properties, affecting C-H bond activation and double bond or aromatic ring interaction. Site isolation and the size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites are critical for selectivity and conversion, depending on the reaction and support used.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is optimized by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts [1,15]. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking [16]. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption [17], while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed [18]. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites [19], highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene peak at specific copper concentrations before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of alkyl radicals in C-H bond activation. C2H4 yields are significantly higher in OXD than in methane oxidative coupling due to secondary reactions, influenced by the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6, which accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating catalyst and mechanism impacts on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and energy gap affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, addressing high conversion and selectivity challenges, and optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, particularly propane over MoOx/ZrO2, follows the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids the redox cycle, forming water. This mechanism optimizes selectivity and conversion, addressing key challenges in the process. Site isolation plays a role in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction, with the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium surface sites' local structure impacting selectivity and process efficiency. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, enhancing process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, serving as a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, enabling direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process by preventing undesired reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The ODH of alkanes, involving Cr(III)silica surface sites, suggests CH activation by oxidative addition as a potential route, but the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) makes it unlikely. Comparing sites with different oxygen bridges to the silica surface reveals the importance of site characteristics in process efficiency. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is implied in the context of surface site comparison, addressing selectivity issues in ODH.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities outperform others, highlighting the critical role of site isolation in controlling catalytic site structures and enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO demonstrate the optimization of ODH processes through improved reactivities and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, and surface properties that impact catalytic efficiency. The analysis of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms, offers insights into optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts, where site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, while the complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by industrial and academic researchers.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by MoOx and VOx catalysts that proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential for selective ODH, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, as demonstrated in recent work.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, abundant and economically valuable, are challenging to activate due to their high stability, making selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules a key industrial goal. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Selectivity is limited by the conditions required to activate paraffins, which can readily oxidize the formed products. The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the first step in their transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity, influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction and surface hydrocarbon species stability, is crucial for selectivity. The activation of molecular oxygen requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective in forming C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of the support affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. The addition of niobia modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to the high selectivity of ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, is a complex process. Catalyst choice is dictated by alkane nature, affecting selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Efficiency is collectively impacted by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters are crucial for ODH performance. Chlorine ions are essential for high ethene yield, and the acid-base character of catalysts governs olefin formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibits similar high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly impact the catalytic behavior of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, essential for selective ODH catalyst development. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides (VMgO) and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and valence state, significantly impact performance. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species, while the reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytically significant reduced centers. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures and the addition of secondary surface metal oxides can enhance propane activation to propylene. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for industry, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 9). Site isolation is key for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, employs Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide boasts high selectivity for propane conversion, further enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity, addressing key selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, forming methyl radicals that couple to ethane, which can further oxidize to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like MoO3 and V2O5, which exhibit different selectivity and conversion rates based on their size and electronic properties. Smaller, polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than larger species or bulk oxides. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, enhance selectivity by stabilizing desired reactions over side reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is crucial for understanding their functioning. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 catalysts demonstrate that the size of active sites significantly impacts selectivity and conversion rates, with smaller sites often leading to improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed to optimize the process. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively influence the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria enhances catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's linked to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve high C2H6 conversion and C2H4 selectivity, highlighting site isolation's role in selectivity. C2H5 radicals, identified by MIESR, initiate the reaction, with pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differing, leading to higher C2H4 yields. C-H bond strength's influence on reaction rates, being lower in C2H6 than CH4, affects process efficiency. Site isolation is critical for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are critical, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands impacting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, particularly MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, collectively optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2, and reversible OH recombination aids catalyst regeneration, forming water. Site isolation is crucial for optimized process efficiency, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models employ C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration mechanisms. Site isolation significantly affects selectivity, critical for process optimization, as the reaction's efficiency is sensitive to the local structure around chromium sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective in propane oxydehydrogenation, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr for selectivity, enhance activity. NiCo molybdates offer stability and are viable for light paraffin activation, serving as alternatives to V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals are crucial for reaction pathways and selectivity. Site isolation and supported catalyst systems optimize the process by controlling radical formation and preventing side reactions, enhancing selectivity. Supported systems and site isolation are pivotal in managing radical interactions, impacting active site distribution and overall selectivity, thus optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), CH activation occurs via oxidative addition over Cr(III) on silica surface sites, but the high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 makes this mechanism unlikely for dehydrogenation. Different Cr(III) sites on silica exhibit varying reactivities, and site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, though its discussion is limited in literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, underscore the critical role of site isolation in reactivity and selectivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and at catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review contrasts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane with direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It explores unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, such as composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites is analyzed, alongside kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. The review concludes with an outlook on future trends in the field, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of the process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts, where the first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms involving specific sites have been proposed, and site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, and the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible pathways. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge. The primary activation of n-butane involves rupture of a methylene CH bond, and the reaction on the catalytic site could involve two hydrogen abstractions. The existence of vanadium sites with a vanadium vacancy is improbable, but the presence of protons would fit with Bronsted sites titration experiments. The more probable catalytic site involves two hydrogens abstraction, explaining the discrimination between methylene and methyl CH bond observed. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested from thermodynamic considerations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH involves primary and secondary reactions, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic turnover rates. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Turnover rates correlate with LMCT absorption edge energies, with more reducible supports and higher surface densities leading to higher ODH rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity significantly influences pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting the Lewis acidity of cations, impact relative rates. The same sites required for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion hinder selective ODH. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species are pivotal in catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has faced low yields, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane conversion, despite its economic significance, is challenging due to their high stability. Selective paraffin conversion to various products is crucial for chemical industries. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalyst types, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which vary in effectiveness with different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Efficiency is affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal results, as the nature of alkane influences reactivity and catalyst choice. Different catalysts, such as those based on reducible transition metal oxides and others like B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P, show varying performance. Reaction conditions, including feed mixture, temperature, and contact time, influence selectivity and activity. Chlorine ions are critical for achieving high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center affects the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states (Cr5+, Cr3+, Cr2+) are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of C2-C4 alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character impacts vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalysis. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active, selective sites. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination and aggregation, plus acid/base sites, are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages, but their catalytic behavior is influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity and olefin formation. Active and selective sites in ODH remain under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts showing distinct properties due to V-species modifications. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and elucidate support influence. The ODH mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. Catalyst reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity compared to bulk metal oxides like V2O5. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity at low temperatures. Propane to propylene conversion benefits from niobium oxide, with enhanced activity by adding V, Cr, or Mo, without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors improve selectivity by preventing facile reduction, which can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion are temperature-dependent, peaking at an optimal point. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as CH3. reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with their size, electronic, and geometric properties significantly impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Oxygen ions can exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic character, affecting catalytic properties. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical, depending on the reaction and support used. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and the mobility of the oxide lattice. Understanding and optimizing these factors is essential for enhancing ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts enhance catalytic activity and selectivity. Activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking selectivity in ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active sites, as evidenced by studies showing increased catalytic activity and selectivity with copper concentration, and the limitation of conversion due to CuO crystallites at high copper content.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% selectivity for ethane and ethylene. The process involves C-H bond activation on metal oxides, free-radical chemistry, and ethane production from CH3 radicals. Ethylene yields are higher due to distinct pathways for ethyl vs. methyl radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chlorides reached 77% ethylene selectivity at 75% ethane conversion, highlighting C-H bond strength's role in reaction rates. Catalysts for methane oxidative coupling are also effective for ethane ODH, with initial activation forming alkyl radicals. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances process efficiency, while site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity. This underscores the importance of catalyst design in addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. The remaining OH groups recombine to form water, reducing Mo centers that reoxidize by O2 chemisorption, highlighting the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Site isolation optimizes selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. The mechanism involves H transfer and chromium site regeneration, with site isolation playing a critical role in enhancing selectivity by sensitizing the dehydrogenation process to the local structure around chromium.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance system stability, with Cr demonstrating potential for high selectivity at improved conversions, addressing process optimization in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions and undesired reactions by managing reactive site availability for intermediates, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, forming an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex with a high activation energy (~220 kJ mol-1), making this pathway unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surface sites, particularly those with two and three oxygen bridges, plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, highlighting the significance of high surface areas and homogeneity for enhanced performance. Site isolation, critical for controlling catalytic site structures, boosts selectivity. The TMP method yields high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting reactivity, particularly in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been investigated, with site isolation playing a pivotal role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, addressing the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors affecting activity and selectivity, including catalyst composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity. The nature of active and selective sites and the reaction mechanism are highlighted, with conclusions on future trends in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a significant challenge in catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO overcoming activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion are hindered by complex reaction pathways. The goal is to identify common activation sites for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Catalysts' efficiency is influenced by their interplay, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. VPO and VSbO catalysts activate alkanes through specific sites, involving hydrogen abstraction and electron transfer. Oxygen species play a crucial role, with O) species stabilizing the activation process. Dopants affect VPO catalysts' properties, while VSbO catalysts undergo redox changes, becoming p-type semiconductors under propane, with active sites attributed to isolated vanadium species. The M1 phase's structure supports vanadium sites for alkane activation, with resonance forms leading to surface O) for H abstraction. Optimizing ODH efficiency requires understanding these mechanisms and catalyst properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation, involves CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms, with reaction rates limited by the reduction step. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize catalytic functions independent of chemical composition, as evidenced by the exponential dependence of ODH rates on LMCT absorption edge energies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathway efficiency, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting lower activation energies and higher reaction rates than MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity, increasing from V5+ to Mo6+ to W6+, affects the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species are crucial for catalytic activities, with VOx/ZrO2 showing the highest activity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion occurs on the same sites, impacting alkene yields. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species enthalpy of formation, while propene combustion has a lower activation energy, affecting k3/k1 ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2-rich conditions effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, producing C2 compounds. Under conventional conditions, high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion have been achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their activation difficulty, are economically significant for conversion due to their large reserves and potential to produce valuable chemical products (1). Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is challenging due to alkanes' low reactivity, which has preserved them but hindered industrial use (3). Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial for catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Paraffin activation is harder due to high stability, limiting selectivity as products may oxidize easily (6). Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and determines selectivity, influenced by catalyst reactivity and surface species stability (10, 11). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation, related to oxide's electron transfer capacity (14, 15). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (16). Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17, 18, 19). Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF numbers (20, 21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity (49, 50). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24, 28). Doping with Te or Pd influences oxidation states, affecting performance (25, 29). Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (30).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature, impacting selectivity and conversion. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, are crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions may decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. Vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. The acid-base character of catalysts influences olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits versatile surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, showing high reactivity and mobility towards various molecules. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on chemically softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling Cr ions' redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by the support type, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. This chemistry is crucial for understanding Cr's role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, impacting catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character of catalysts, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for supported vanadium oxide catalysts' catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and help understand the support's influence. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts like supported metal oxides, is optimized by controlling metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic solid properties (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity is enhanced with optimal VOx domain size (Quote 2), affecting COx formation (Quote 3). Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures affecting the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-basic and redox properties (Quote 6), with isolated active sites crucial for selectivity (Quote 7). Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9). Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, affecting electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing promising selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized with Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides, and niobium oxide for propane, showing high selectivity despite low conversion. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without reducing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction near vanadium sites enhances selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Li/MgO catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature, peaking at 700°C. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, preventing CO and CO2 formation by promoting CH3 reaction with surface O2- ions. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues, making Li/MgO a novel catalyst for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) utilizes catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems to activate C-H bonds, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. Challenges include achieving high selectivity and conversion, influenced by the nature of active sites. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, enhancing selectivity. Monomeric species like MoO42- and VO43- exhibit acidic properties, favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts require dynamic consideration under reaction conditions, with active site size and ion ratio regulated by reactants and preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation, specifically propane's selective oxidation to propylene, BrSnsted acid sites are essential, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalyst studies. Homolytic C-H bond breaking produces propyl radicals, influenced by temperature and catalyst reducibility. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively enhance process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced ODH activity with rising copper content in thoria, peaking ethylene and propene selectivity at specific Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper levels boost ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane conversion is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation and radical chemistry, with C2H4 yields from OXD being higher than from methane coupling due to distinct radical pathways. C-H bond strength influences reaction rates and selectivity, with C2H6 reactions being faster.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength dictating reactivity and efficiency. Optimizing this bond strength enhances ODH performance. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands affects electron transfer, crucial for catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation, propene desorption, and water formation via OH recombination. Reduced Mo centers optimize the process through O2 chemisorption, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III) silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction, with site isolation improving selectivity. The reaction's efficiency is sensitive to chromium site structure, highlighting the significance of catalyst design in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity and yields. Redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr) enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, potentially enabling direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals are pivotal, affecting pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and managing radical interactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is inefficient due to high energy demands and the formation of an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, as evidenced by the reactivity differences among Cr(III)silica surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are key, as site isolation on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO enhances selectivity and control over catalytic sites. The TMP method facilitates the production of high-performance catalysts, and well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation benefit from site isolation strategies, addressing selectivity issues and optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency, covering unsupported and supported catalysts. Key factors include catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The text also delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by researchers (Quote 1). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been identified to overcome the activation step (Quote 2). Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of possible reaction pathways (Quote 3). Various mechanisms have been proposed, but a universal mechanism is yet to be established (Quote 4). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote 5). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 6), with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation (Quote 7). Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and characterize structure defects, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles, is limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, mirroring trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by cation identity, with increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies increasing as acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of oxides and supports impact k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 is expected to be similar to Mo oxides. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with Lewis acid strength of cations. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields poor results, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives research in converting alkanes, despite their low reactivity, through oxidative dehydrogenation. Selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is vital for chemical products. Alkanes' stability, due to their electronic structure, makes activation challenging, limiting selectivity under typical reaction conditions. Catalysts, particularly those with reducible oxides or dopants, are essential for molecular oxygen activation. The affinity between alkanes and catalyst surfaces is critical for initial activation, influencing selectivity and conversion. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon stability determine the rate of surface intermediates' reaction. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. The presence of Te and Pd influences the oxidation state of vanadium, affecting catalyst performance. The high affinity of Pd for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity. Understanding bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule is key to optimizing catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts and reaction conditions, requires careful selection based on alkane type. Bulk metal oxides and supported systems vary in effectiveness. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species. Acid and basic centers' formation depends on the support and additive basicity, influencing olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, acting as ligands controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr oxidation states are present, influenced by support type and composition. Quotes reinforce that Cr's chemistry is similar on different surfaces and that supported Cr ions are highly reactive.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports' acid-base character, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalyst properties like metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and valence state significantly influence performance. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimized VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. The support profoundly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures and the addition of secondary metals such as P, K, Ca, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties, improving selectivity to propylene. Site isolation is critical for efficient catalyst design, as in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity during ethane ODH. Alkali additives like Cs, K, and Li affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene by inhibiting MoOx reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces challenges due to faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Supported catalyst systems, unlike bulk metal oxides, offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 5). CH bond activation, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes, is a key mechanism (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Selectivity, correlated with site distance, highlights the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity from facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion are temperature-dependent, peaking at an optimal point. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by favoring CH3 reaction with surface O2- ions. The Li/MgO system, a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, addresses selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion. Active sites, crucial for reactions, are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, with size impacting catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites, favoring desired reactions. Supported oxide catalysts require characterization techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED to understand surface clusters. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal ratios of active ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated with MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively optimize the process, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios influence oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene at optimal ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is linked to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation is key for selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. The mechanism involves methane activation and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions reached 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity enhancement and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength dictating reactivity. Optimizing this bond strength enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by avoiding unwanted products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employs a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination steps produce water, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with mechanisms sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation boosts selectivity, a critical factor for optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content affecting catalytic activity. The NiCo molybdate system, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, maintains high selectivity at improved conversions, serving as a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and managing active site distribution. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions, potentially improving selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The literature explores CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites for catalytic dehydrogenation, noting a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, which hinders dehydrogenation. Comparisons of Cr(III)silica sites with varying oxygen bridges to the silica surface highlight reactivity differences, though site isolation's role in selectivity is not explicitly discussed. This analysis underscores the interplay between catalysts and reaction mechanisms in ODH of alkanes, emphasizing the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneity outperform others, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity enhancement. The TMP method aids in crafting high-performance propane ODH catalysts, impacting the reactivities of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials, including Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, play a pivotal role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and efficiency factors, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the role of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The text also delves into active and selective sites, kinetic analysis, and reaction pathways, concluding with insights and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of possible reaction pathways. The search for a common activation site for efficient catalysts is ongoing. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with various mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Efficient catalysts must have properties suitable for alkene oxidation, such as long-range electron delocalization and high electron mobility. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Lattice oxygen involvement in the activation of n-butane has been confirmed, indicating a critical role in the reaction process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by residence time, proceeds via reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation, enhanced by larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced MoOx surface reactivity. Quantum confinement effects, controlled by domain size and electronic isolation, optimize materials for catalytic functions. Turnover rates correlate with LMCT absorption edge energies, indicating sensitivity of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation to electron transfer capabilities. These trends are consistent across various supports and reducible oxides.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting rising activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with declining reaction rates. Lewis acidity impacts propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with activation energy differences increasing as acidity rises (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpies and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH shares sites with alkene combustion, complicating selective poisoning. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. ODH on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the adsorption enthalpy plus transition state enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values align with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species dictate catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Research on methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has struggled with low yields. N2O is sometimes favored over O2 as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) has emerged as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds like C2H6 and C2H4, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their activation challenges, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is pivotal for chemical product synthesis. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive industrial alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Activation of paraffins is hindered by their high stability, affecting selectivity. CH bond cleavage is the initial step in hydrocarbon transformation, requiring catalyst affinity and reactivity. Molecular oxygen activation demands reducible oxides or dopants, while N2O use enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic support and redox properties significantly affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Catalyst modifications, such as adding niobia or Te/Pd, alter redox properties and increase selectivity to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, involves catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion influenced by C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Efficiency is determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance, affecting olefin formation and desorption. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species, and support nature influences acid and basic centers, crucial for olefinic intermediate formation. The nature of alkane influences not only reactivity but also the choice of catalyst, and chlorine ions generate ethyl radical species, critical for high ethene yield. The environment of the active center affects the path of the ODH reaction, and the acid-base character of the catalysts influences the rate of olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water, with its redox behavior dependent on the support type. Chemically softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Support properties significantly influence Cr's behavior, affecting its oxidation states and promoting polychromate formation under certain conditions. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic performance in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination and aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and the presence of acid/base sites, are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages in strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    