Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, with supported metal oxides' performance affected by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH increases with V2O5 loading, optimal with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher selectivity to propylene. N2O as an oxidant results in a more reduced and selective surface. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, enhanced by secondary surface metal oxide additives. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Incorporating high vanadium contents can lead to structural instability. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, while supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. C-H bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the importance of site isolation for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, employs Mo16V4Nb2 for high ethane conversion activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide excels in propane conversion selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additions. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by preventing facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation by hydrogen abstraction from methane by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems to activate C-H bonds, forming M-alkyl intermediates. Challenges include achieving high selectivity and conversion, influenced by mechanisms like 2H-abstraction. Active sites, crucial for selectivity, must be isolated to stabilize desired reactions over side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, single and isolated metallic ion sites are insufficient for all transformations, necessitating distinct active sites for substrate oxidation and dioxygen reduction. The nature of the metal-oxygen bond, its polarization, and the oxygen ion's electrophilic or nucleophilic properties are critical. Site isolation and optimization are essential for process efficiency, as demonstrated by enhanced catalytic performance of materials with specific active site configurations, such as continuous chains of vanadyl or CrO6 octahedra. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, also plays a role in the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated with MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios, with activity rising with copper concentration in thoria. Selectivity peaks at specific ratios for ethylene and propene. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites, as studied by EPR techniques. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion with high ethane/ethylene selectivity, highlighting the role of C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane's ODH is more efficient than methane's oxidative coupling due to differing radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions demonstrates 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, showcasing catalyst optimization. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates its reaction rates compared to methane, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, notably MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity. These factors optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts primarily yields propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary products. The mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination, aligning with the Mars-van Krevelen redox process. Two lattice oxygens activate the CH bond in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation through OH group recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane using Cr(III)silica models, a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration is observed. Site isolation significantly influences selectivity, highlighting the importance of the local structure of chromium surface sites in achieving high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhancing activity, particularly Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, optimizing the process by enabling direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, improving selectivity, and the distribution of active sites in supported systems affects selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, results in the formation of an ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. However, the high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1 suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation, as demonstrated by the reactivity of different Cr(III)silica surface sites, plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities perform optimally. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is critical for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, influencing reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms, particularly for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and mechanisms. It highlights factors impacting catalytic efficiency, including catalyst types (unsupported and supported), promoters, composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. Active and selective sites are crucial for both activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are analyzed. The review concludes with future trends in the field, emphasizing hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency factors.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes presents a significant challenge in catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO overcoming the activation barrier. Selectivity and conversion are hindered by multiple reaction pathways. Mechanisms including C-H bond activation and O) species stabilization by vanadium sites and cationic vacancies are proposed. Oxygen species play a crucial role, with lattice oxygen involved in alkane activation. Efficient catalysts exhibit unique hydrocarbon activation mechanisms. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Dopants influence catalytic properties, and redox changes under different conditions affect the process. The M1 phase shows vanadium sites leading to surface O) for H abstraction. The ODH process efficiency is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a process involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles (quote 2). Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms (quote 4). The ability of oxide domains to accept electron density, influenced by LUMO energy levels (quote 6), is crucial for catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy (quote 10), indicating that larger domains with lower LUMO energies enhance reactivity. Quantum confinement effects allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition (quote 28).", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing sequential activation energies and reaction rates. Lewis acidity, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies and CH bond energies influence relative rates, with propene's weaker bond enhancing its reactivity. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion reflect adsorption and transition state formation enthalpies, with propene combustion having a lower activation energy. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, indicative of Lewis acid strength, impact k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen correlate with catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction to form ·CH3 radicals, facilitating C2 compound production via radical coupling. Under conventional catalytic conditions, we've achieved high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion, addressing the selectivity and conversion challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, significant for their vast reserves, pose activation challenges compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons. Their conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is economically vital. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to their high stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkane stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports are more effective. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties influence ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on alkane type. Mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, while the coordination number of the active center and the environment of the active site influence the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider the alkane type and reaction conditions to optimize selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits similar high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ can form, influenced by support type and composition. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor onto the surface, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic states, impacting performance (Quote 1). COx formation in ethane ODH is linked to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric (Quote 2). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures affecting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6), while site isolation is crucial for high selectivity (Quote 7). Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based ones (Quote 9). Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or oxidize to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is crucial but faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites, addresses selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized with Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additions. Site isolation, notably niobium's role in VNbO catalysts, improves selectivity by preventing facile reduction, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation state metals, addresses selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, making it a novel catalyst for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. The efficiency of ODH is determined by the interplay of these factors. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. The nature of the metal ion and its environment dictate the polarity of metal-oxygen bonds, influencing the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of oxygen ions. This affects the interaction with reactant molecules, such as C-H bond activation. The concept of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites, with their size and structure, is essential for understanding catalytic performance. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can help characterize these clusters. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is critical for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The selective oxidation of propane to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also necessitates BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios, with higher copper content boosting ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity, utilizing C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength accelerates reactions, enhancing C2H4 selectivity. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions demonstrated 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, underscoring the significance of catalyst choice in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands dictating reactivity. Optimizing these properties for intermediate MO bond strength enhances selective oxidation, crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts yields propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary combustion products. Irreversible CH bond activation, involving two lattice oxygens, leads to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, aligning with the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, which addresses selectivity and conversion challenges in the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with process efficiency influenced by the local structure of chromium surface sites. Site isolation is critical for selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of the dehydrogenation mechanism to chromium's local structure, essential for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements such as V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity and Cr maintains high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, showing potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals influence selectivity, and catalyst design, including site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and affecting active site distribution, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, a mechanism with high activation energy, making dehydrogenation unlikely. The unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex necessitates β-hydrogen transfer for catalysis. Site isolation, as demonstrated by the reactivity differences between Cr(III)silica sites with two and three oxygen bridges, plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, excel in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are crucial for reactivities, especially in bimetallic oxides and catalyst interfaces. Well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation highlight the importance of site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems (unsupported [3] and supported [4]), promoters, and conditions impacting activity and selectivity [13]. It discusses factors affecting both activity and selectivity, including catalyst composition, operating conditions, catalyst reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and the nature of oxygen species [6-9]. The nature of active and selective sites [15] and reaction mechanisms [17] are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends [18].", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as highlighted by industrial and academic researchers (Quote 1). Efficient catalysts, notably VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step of alkanes, a critical process component (Quote 2). However, achieving high selectivity and conversion remains challenging due to the complexity of multiple simultaneous reaction pathways (Quote 3). Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism is universally applicable (Quote 4). The goal is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts for light alkane selective oxidation (Quote 5). Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates between lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen species. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by residence time, proceeds via reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various supports and oxides, indicating a general mechanism for ODH catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies significantly affect propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion rise with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in the high stability of alkanes, which hinders their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is difficult due to their stability, leading to potential selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity, hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with vanadium-based catalysts showing promise for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with Te or Pd modifies catalyst performance, with Pd's high affinity for H2 enhancing ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, employing catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, varies in efficiency by alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, influence selectivity and conversion. Catalyst choice and reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, are critical. Acid-base properties and oxygen type affect ODH performance. Chlorine ions are essential for high ethene yield, while the coordination number and environment of the active center impact the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the formation of acid and basic centers depends on the support and additive basicity, influencing olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, reacting with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character significantly impacts vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites influence supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Selective catalyst development in ODH reactions hinges on these factors. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides boosts bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. Reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxides, with optimized VOx domain size, enhance activity and selectivity to olefins. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH affects catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Incorporating acid and redox sites, as in VCoAPO-18, is crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and MoOx domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, enhancing electronic and catalytic properties, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkene production, encounters the issue of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 exhibit low yields, whereas supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide shows high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives without affecting activity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a key factor in preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, leading to ethane and further oxidization to ethylene. High C2 selectivities and conversions are achieved, with low surface areas favoring C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst, distinct from traditional oxidation catalysts due to the absence of metal ions with variable oxidation states.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with challenges in selectivity and conversion addressed through understanding mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Active sites, not isolated metallic ions, are crucial, with the metal ion's nature and environment determining the oxygen ion's electrophilic or nucleophilic properties, affecting C-H bond activation. Structure sensitivity, where the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts impacts catalytic properties, is key. Active sites are 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and electronic properties significantly influence selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions and optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies, requires BrSnsted acid sites. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical, with pathways sensitive to acid-base properties. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and the number of such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity, conversion, and selectivity are enhanced with increased copper concentration in thoria. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion and ethane/ethylene selectivity. The reaction mechanism involves methane activation on metal oxides and free-radical chemistry, with ethane production from CH3 radicals coupling in the gas phase. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chloride ions demonstrates the role of catalysts in process optimization, achieving high C2H4 selectivity at substantial C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal in selective oxidation during ODH, with MO bond strength and energy gap affecting catalyst reactivity. Optimizing these properties enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity by avoiding unwanted products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, with OH groups recombining to form water. Site isolation of active sites enhances selectivity and process efficiency, addressing key challenges in the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with the process's efficiency and selectivity influenced by the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is pivotal for addressing selectivity issues, impacting the overall process efficiency. The reaction proceeds through C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, with H2 evolution, underscoring the significance of chromium site structure in mechanism and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements. Notably, Cr retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making NiCo molybdates a competitive alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, affecting active site distribution, and improving selectivity. Surface-generated radicals play a key role in reaction pathways and product selectivity, with catalyst design playing a crucial role in their management.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "Exploring ODH mechanisms, CH activation over Cr(III)silica is unlikely due to high activation energy. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surfaces, crucial for selectivity, highlights the need for optimized catalyst design to overcome challenges in achieving high conversion and selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), emphasizing the role of high surface areas and homogeneity in enhancing heterogeneous process performance. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, significantly improving selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, optimizing site structure and generating site-isolated catalysts. Site isolation is critical in the reactivities of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity, as seen in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, with a focus on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It explores the activation of hydrocarbons and factors impacting catalytic efficiency, including catalyst types (unsupported and supported), promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Key aspects like catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity are analyzed. The nature of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms, are examined to optimize the process. Insights into future trends conclude the review.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with the search for efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems being a promising yet difficult endeavor. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions stems from the multitude of possible simultaneous pathways. While various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, no single mechanism stands out as universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step of alkane transformation involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for activation. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species. Catalysts' properties and the dynamic nature of oxide surfaces significantly influence process efficiency, highlighting the need for a comprehensive understanding of surface dynamics and adsorbed species. Electrical conductivity measurements can help identify the conduction mechanism and charge carrier concentration, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states for CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electron density. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials for optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Lower LUMO energies correlate with higher catalytic turnover rates, as observed in UV-visible absorption edge energies. These trends are consistent across various oxide domains and reducible supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 exhibit a sequence in activation energies and reaction rates for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, with VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2 (Quote 2). Higher Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < WOx) increases the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion (Quote 4). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O over O2. Li/MgO shows high activity for H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds in high yields under conventional conditions, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives research into converting abundant but less reactive alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) for valuable products. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical production. Activation of alkanes is challenging due to their high stability, requiring specific conditions that can limit selectivity. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is harder than for other hydrocarbons, leading to potential non-selective oxidation. The CH bond's high stability necessitates a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface for activation. Catalyst reactivity, hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, and surface hydrocarbon species stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with site isolation improving selectivity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion, with the nature of the VOS bond critical for ethane oxidation. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation proving beneficial for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type. Site isolation aids selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Efficiency is affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The nature of alkane and reaction conditions dictate catalyst selection, with chlorine ions crucial for high ethene yield. Active center coordination and environment influence the reaction path, and vanadium species correlate with catalyst behavior. Acid and basic centers' strength and reducibility play a role, affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions display high reactivity with various molecules, influenced by the support type and composition, favoring reduction on softer supports. Polychromate formation is enhanced by higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas, anchoring chromium oxides onto the surface post-calcination. Redox properties are controlled by the oxide support, with Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ present under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, critical for C2-C4 alkanes' catalytic performance. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Vanadium oxide's coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites impact catalysis. Supported metal oxides offer higher strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior, enhancing bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion, with vanadia catalysts' properties linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, with vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior dependent on the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting the number of catalytically significant reduced centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. The formation of binary dispersed structures can significantly affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives can enhance propane activation to propylene. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties, and can inhibit the reduction of MoOx, affecting the CH bond activation step and leading to higher selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5, offering higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is catalyzed by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide, respectively. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, further enhanced by incorporating V, Cr, or Mo. Site isolation, particularly niobium's resistance to reduction, boosts selectivity in VNbO catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to 700°C. High C2 selectivities are favored by low surface areas, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Active site size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH. For instance, isolated metallic ion sites cannot account for all transformations in the reaction, as several steps like oxygen anion vacancy replenishment, H atom extraction, and electron transfer are involved. The size of 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is crucial, with low-size polymeric species exhibiting better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than large-size species or bulk-type oxides. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts, with peculiar fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules required for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated in MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios, with higher copper content enhancing ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxides catalyze C-H bond activation, achieving 20% methane conversion and 80% selectivity for ethane/ethylene. O2 favors C2H4 over coupling reactions, with CH3 and C2H5 radicals as intermediates. Site isolation on Li/MgO with chloride boosts selectivity to 77% C2H4 at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of catalyst design in addressing selectivity and conversion issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength dictating reactivity and the energy gap between bands affecting electron transfer and catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength boosts selective oxidation. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, enhances selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, involving irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, exemplified by ethane over Cr(III)silica, involves C-H activation leading to ethene and chromium site regeneration. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, highlights chromium's local structure role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates provide a stable system for optimization, offering an alternative to V-based catalysts and potential for direct conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and product selectivity. Catalyst design, notably site isolation in supported systems, limits radical formation and unwanted side reactions, enhancing selectivity by controlling radical interactions and restricting reactive sites for intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis reveals CH activation over Cr(III)silica surfaces with high activation energy, making it an unlikely dehydrogenation route. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, enhances selectivity, as evidenced by the comparison of different Cr(III)silica surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are key for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts. Support materials such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a critical role in selective oxidation by well-defined iron sites, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, discussing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors influencing catalytic efficiency, with a focus on catalyst types and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms are analyzed, leading to conclusions on future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems offering unique mechanisms to overcome the activation step (Quote [2]). Selective oxidation reactions are complex due to multiple simultaneous pathways (Quote [3]). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote [5]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote [6]), with various proposed mechanisms for light alkane activation. Efficient catalysts have sites that allow two methylene H abstraction, explaining the selectivity observed (Quote [20]). The activation can be related to the p-type semiconducting properties of the solids, likely through hydrogen abstraction by a surface O) species. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Process optimization requires understanding the interplay between catalysts, selectivity, conversion, and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by residence time effects on alkenes and COx formation, proceeds via reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing propane ODH rates. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with decreasing LUMO energies and increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with tailored electronic properties and catalytic functions, as evidenced by the exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity impacts CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propene and propane rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) raises the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, along with acid-base properties, influence k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, hindering selective poisoning for improved yields. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are anticipated on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance with Mo oxides. The apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, affect k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to ethylene and C2 compounds faces low yield challenges, sometimes favoring N2O over O2. Recent studies show Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production through radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, as demonstrated in our recent work.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The challenge lies in their high stability, which complicates industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, underscoring the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is hindered by their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Primary carbons have the highest CH bond energy, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and surface hydrocarbon stability determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties and oxygen type affect ODH performance. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process. The nature of alkane influences catalyst choice, and chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield. Acid-base properties of the catalysts affect olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high mobility and reactivity to various molecules, with redox behavior influenced by the support type. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, acting as ligands that control redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, dependent on support composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. Post-calcination, Cr oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, while the coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area, with catalytic behavior influenced by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides (VMgO) and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane's oxidation. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' different properties relating to V-species' coordination and environment modifications. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence, while the reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: agglomeration degree, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and additives can enhance propane activation. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity increasing with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength and ODH activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues, as highlighted in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, critical for industry, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quotes 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quotes 4, 5). Catalysts like MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise for high selectivity (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). High temperatures above 600 C are required, favoring gas phase reactions. Selectivity is enhanced by site isolation, correlating with site distance (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high selectivity. Propane's ODH to propylene benefits from niobium oxide's selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, Mo additions. Niobium's resistance to reduction in VNbO catalysts boosts selectivity by preventing facile reduction, which often causes low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to 700°C enhances C2 selectivity and conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a pivotal role, with isolated sites stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Oxygen species transfer and the nature of metal ions are crucial, with metal-oxygen bonds affecting the electrophilic or nucleophilic properties of the oxygen ions. This, in turn, influences the interaction with reactant molecules, affecting the efficiency of the ODH process. Site isolation facilitates better control over selectivity, optimizing the process by stabilizing desired active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, critical in oxidative dehydrogenation, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalyst studies reveal. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and ethylene selectivity increase with copper concentration in thoria, peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation is critical for controlling active sites and enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity, utilizing C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. C2H4 yields are enhanced in ODH due to the absence of a stable product route for CH3 radicals. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions exemplifies process optimization, achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 compared to CH4 accelerates reaction rates, showcasing bond strength's impact on ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, notably MO bond strength, enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, is key to addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, aiding the redox cycle. This mechanism addresses selectivity and conversion challenges, highlighting site isolation's role in enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models activate C-H bonds, form M-alkyl intermediates, and abstract 2H. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, is sensitive to the local structure around chromium, highlighting its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, and redox elements, particularly Cr, enhance activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdate serves as an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, demonstrating potential in propane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Supported catalysts and site isolation control radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation optimizes the process by managing radical interactions and reactive site availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "Exploring oxidative dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, a high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) suggests the oxidative addition mechanism is unlikely, involving a double oxidation of chromium and a crossing point between spin potential energy surfaces. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surfaces, particularly those with two and three oxygen bridges, is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts in propane ODH highlight the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity by introducing isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports. This strategy impacts the reactivity of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review contrasts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane with direct dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems and reaction mechanisms. It discusses catalysts' impact on activity and selectivity, emphasizing composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties. Active site nature and kinetic studies are analyzed, offering insights into hydrocarbon activation. The review concludes with an outlook on optimizing the process for enhanced efficiency, integrating future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is a significant challenge in catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO overcoming activation hurdles. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed, including the role of Bronsted and Lewis acid sites. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions, characterizing structure defects and active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [Quote 2] highlights the efficiency of VPO or VSbO-based systems, while [Quote 3] emphasizes the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions. [Quote 5] aims to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts, and [Quote 17] shows that several mechanisms involving different sites have been proposed for the first step of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with catalytic functions independent of chemical composition, as evidenced by the exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity on VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 structures impacts pathways, with activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increasing from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) influences propane ODH and propene combustion rates, with activation energy differences increasing as acidity increases. Selective ODH is hindered by shared CH bond activation sites for alkane ODH and alkene combustion. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to this shared requirement. For selective ODH, intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. Activation energies correlate with CH bond cleavage, influenced by metal oxide reducibility, and adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting Lewis acidity, also affect reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2-rich conditions effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, preserved due to low reactivity, are economically significant for conversion into valuable products. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is challenging due to the difficulty in activating alkanes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising, highlighting the need for advanced catalysts. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, underlining the importance of in situ characterization. Reducible oxides and dopants are crucial for molecular oxygen activation. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen, and its activation is linked to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports are more effective. Catalysts' redox properties and acidity affect ethane conversion, and site isolation improves selectivity. Doping with niobia modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. The affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity. Catalysts' bulk reduction vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule influence activity and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness with different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters affect ODH performance. Catalyst selection is crucial, influenced by alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role, as does the nature of the support and additives. The acid-base character of catalysts influences olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility, interacting effectively with alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water (Quote 2). Its redox behavior is significantly influenced by the support type and composition, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports (Quote 3). Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor the formation of polychromates (Quote 6). After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with their structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is significantly influenced by the acid-base character of metal oxide supports, which affects vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are identified as active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state, and presence of acid/base sites significantly impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages in mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the metal oxide support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity to olefins and oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, emphasizing the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, particularly vanadium oxide, show increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, with optimal performance at intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures can affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene can be correlated with work function values. Incorporating high vanadium contents can lead to structural instability. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for alkene production, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield lowly, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit promising selectivities. CH bond activation is rate-determining, requiring high temperatures for ethane ODH, favoring gas phase reactions. Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates decomposing to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction, with an alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism. Selectivity correlates with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide enhances activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts vanadium sites' selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion peak at an optimal temperature. Lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivity by minimizing CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, improves selectivity in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), bulk metal oxides and supported systems serve as catalysts, activating C-H bonds to form M-alkyl intermediates and undergo 2H-abstraction. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging, requiring optimization of catalysts and reaction mechanisms. Active sites' size and properties significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates, with oxygen ions exhibiting electrophilic or nucleophilic character influencing catalytic properties. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions over side reactions, which is crucial for process efficiency. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than larger species or bulk oxides. The size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is critical, depending on the reaction and support used. Techniques such as XANES, EXAFS, and RED can be used to better characterize these clusters on the surface. Oxidation catalysts must be considered dynamically under reaction conditions, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, influenced by preparation procedures, and regulated by additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also needs BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion with high ethane/ethylene selectivity, highlighting the role of C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane's OXD is more efficient than methane's due to distinct radical pathways, with a Li/MgO catalyst achieving high C2H4 selectivity at substantial C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength to intermediate levels boosts selective oxidation. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, enhances selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps address selectivity issues, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with site isolation impacting selectivity. The mechanism includes H transfer to chromium, ethene release, and site regeneration under H2 evolution, highlighting the sensitivity to chromium's local structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr), offer stable systems for optimization, particularly Cr for high selectivity at improved conversions, making them viable alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and managing radical interactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for intermediates, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica sites is characterized by a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex and the necessity of β-hydrogen transfer. Comparing Cr(III)silica sites with varying oxygen bridges reveals insights into catalyst efficiency and selectivity issues, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneity are superior, and site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, is pivotal for enhancing selectivity and controlling catalytic site structures. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, improving site structure control and generating site-isolated catalysts, crucial for selective oxidation at well-defined iron sites and reactivities in bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity influence the process. The text also explores the nature of active and selective sites, detailed kinetic studies, and proposed reaction mechanisms, concluding with future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, demanding efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion are major challenges due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single theory stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. Site isolation plays a crucial role in stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts exhibit specific properties, such as strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species, which are crucial for alkene oxidation. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests localized active sites may not fully explain the process. A complete model must consider surface dynamics, adsorbed species, and collective properties of the solid. Electrical conductivity measurements can identify the conduction mechanism and charge carrier concentration, aiding in the identification of active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains with lower LUMO energies enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons and stabilize transition states. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions, impacting ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity in VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 affects pathways, with activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increasing from VOx to WOx, correlating with decreasing rates. Rates depend on CH bond energies and adsorption enthalpies, reflecting Lewis acidity. Activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion increase with cation Lewis acidity. CH bond activation in ODH requires the same sites as alkene combustion, impacting selectivity. Propene's reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Limited data suggests similar ODH mechanisms for Mo and W oxides. Apparent activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption and transition state enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, affecting propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with cation Lewis acidity, impact k3/k1 ratios. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst successfully converts CH4 to C2 compounds in high yields under conventional conditions, addressing the challenge of low product yields.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, with vast reserves, are economically significant for selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules. Their high stability poses a challenge for industrial processes, making direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial for catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, affecting selectivity as products may oxidize under activation conditions. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond, and their reactivity determines selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Catalyst affinity, surface properties, and reduction vs. surface reduction are critical for activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like reducible transition metal oxides and systems including B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type and reaction conditions. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield. Efficiency is collectively influenced by these factors, requiring careful catalyst selection and optimized reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water, with similar surface chemistry. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. Post-calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface by reacting with hydroxyl groups, with their structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports affecting vanadium dispersion and species, critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    