Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate vanadium loadings. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction leading to higher propylene selectivity. Additives like alkali metals influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity. The presence of both acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Site isolation plays a key role in achieving high selectivity by controlling the interaction between active sites and reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products than starting alkanes, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities. Supported systems outperform bulk metal oxides like V2O5, offering higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high activity and selectivity compared to other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, catalyzed by niobium oxide, exhibits high selectivity but low conversion, improved by incorporating V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature. Lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. This Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst, demonstrating the interplay between catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which impact selectivity and conversion. Challenges are addressed through understanding mechanisms like C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, their size, and electronic properties significantly affect ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, favoring desired reactions. Catalysts must be considered dynamically under reaction conditions, as the size of active sites is regulated by reactants and preparation methods. Supported oxide catalysts exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and nature of the active sites, with low-size polymeric species showing better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions than bulk-type oxides. The interplay between these factors collectively influences process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific Cu/Th ratios, influenced by copper(II) sites. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. For propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts are pivotal, achieving up to 20% methane conversion and 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, with ethane production from CH3 radicals, and ethane OXD yields exceeding methane oxidative coupling due to differing radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions demonstrated 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, underscoring the significance of catalyst choice in optimizing the process. Site isolation in catalyst design addresses selectivity issues, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, d0 transition metal oxides' MO bond strength is pivotal, with optimized electronic properties enhancing efficiency. Site isolation boosts selectivity by preventing secondary reactions. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands affects metal oxide reactivity, impacting electron transfer for selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, the Mars-van Krevelen redox pathway is followed, where lattice oxygens irreversibly activate CH bonds, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, addressing high selectivity and conversion challenges. This mechanism highlights irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with efficiency sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites. Site isolation plays a critical role in addressing selectivity issues, enhancing the process's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation, with molybdenum influencing activity. NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements, particularly Cr, offer stable systems for optimization, serving as alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. This system shows promise for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly site isolation in supported systems, limits radical formation and unwanted side reactions, improving selectivity. Site isolation prevents radical-radical interactions, enhancing selectivity and impacting active site distribution, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, forming an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy necessitates β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle, making this mechanism unlikely. Site characteristics, like oxygen bridges in Cr(III)silica, play a critical role in reactivity, highlighting the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, noted for high surface areas and homogeneities, outperform others. Site isolation, critical for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method aids in producing high-performance catalysts, impacting propane ODH efficiency. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, with site isolation, significantly influence the reactivities of bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights hydrocarbon activation and factors influencing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the role of composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity in activity and selectivity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms are analyzed, concluding with insights into future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, where the first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide particular mechanisms of hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from the number of possible reaction pathways. A common activation site could be proposed for several efficient catalysts. The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation. Different mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising challenge. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. The activation of the first CH bond of an alkane involves very reactive oxygen that is weakly bound. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested. The VSbO catalysts can contain several phases, but the active phase is the VSbO4 phase. The structure of the active M1 phase has been solved, and its detailed composition determined. The activation of the alkane molecule occurred on the vanadium sites located in M7 position in the structure. The M1 phase is, and remains in the conditions of catalytic test, n-type semiconductor. The direct charge transfer proposed may not be the only way to generate active O) sites at the surface of the M1 phase.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2 showing lower activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion than WOx/ZrO2, impacting reaction rates inversely. Lewis acidity and adsorption enthalpies significantly influence ODH and combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increasing with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective ODH is complicated by the requirement for the same sites for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Optimal ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent findings highlight Li/MgO's efficacy in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst promotes C2 compound synthesis via radical coupling, achieving high yields under standard conditions, addressing the selectivity and conversion challenges in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to vast reserves, making their conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules crucial. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, leading to selectivity issues. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Vanadium-based catalysts are applicable for ethane conversion. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, crucial for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or oxidize further. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with distinct behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support influence acid and basic centers, affecting olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves exhibit high reactivity and mobility with various molecules, showing similar surface chemistry. Their redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports, influenced by the support acting as a ligand. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, dependent on support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment. Surface chemistry is influenced by the isoelectric point, surface area, and Cr loading.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character affects vanadium dispersion and species, impacting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites influence catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages, but their nature and vanadium loading modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide boosts bulk V2O5 selectivity in ODH of short chain alkanes. VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides exhibit high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves enhance selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites remain under discussion, influenced by V-species coordination and environment affecting redox properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, show enhanced performance with intermediate-sized VOx domains, peaking selectivity at monolayer structures. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species, while vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Catalyst reactivity is significantly affected by the support, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, crucial for high selectivity to ethylene, as seen in VCoAPO-18. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, and alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties. Site isolation is a key factor in the design of efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster oxidation of alkene products, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity compared to bulk metal oxides like V2O5. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity in propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Incorporating V, Cr, Mo boosts activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium site selectivity, crucial for high-efficiency ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting the pathway to CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system, without variable oxidation state metals, addresses selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, making it a novel catalyst for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from mechanisms such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Active sites, often molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, play a critical role, with size impacting catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- favor total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with properties changing over time, influenced by reactants and preparation procedures. This dynamic nature is essential for understanding catalyst functioning in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts (Moro-oka and Ueda). Pathways vary in sensitivity to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios, correlating with copper(II) sites. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. For propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, while substitutional sites determine propene selectivity. Site isolation, by controlling active site distribution, optimizes selectivity, addressing key process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO with chloride ions effectively catalyzes ethane over methane, achieving high C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion. The mechanism involves alkyl radical formation, with C2H5 radicals reacting preferentially over coupling in O2 presence, unlike CH3 radicals, leading to higher C2H4 yields in ethane OXD. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates compared to CH4, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with the OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting electron transfer and catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, notably the MO bond strength, enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, significantly improves selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 from secondary combustion. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, involving irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination steps, using two lattice oxygens for propane activation, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, highlighting the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate a mechanism involving C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, crucial for H transfer and chromium site regeneration. Reaction efficiency is highly dependent on the local structure of chromium surface sites, underscoring the significance of site isolation for selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, offer high selectivity and conversion, making them a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. These catalysts show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably site isolation in supported systems, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Active site distribution, influenced by design, prevents intermediates from accessing reactive sites, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, CH activation by Cr(III)silica faces a high barrier of 220 kJ mol-1, making it an unlikely dehydrogenation route. Different Cr(III)silica surface sites exhibit varying reactivities, influenced by the number of oxygen bridges to the silica surface. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, especially those with high surface areas and homogeneities, outperform others. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method yields high-performance catalysts, and strategies for site isolation improve control over catalytic sites on oxide supports. The spatial arrangement of metal atoms on catalyst surfaces, particularly in bimetallic oxides and at catalyst support interfaces, is pivotal for reactivity. Site isolation enables selective oxidation of hydrocarbons by well-defined iron sites, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines how catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity impact process efficiency. Active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms, are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends. The review highlights the importance of hydrocarbon activation and factors governing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging area in heterogeneous catalysis, as noted by researchers (quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems (quote [2]), are crucial for overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple simultaneous reaction pathways (quote [3]), with various activation mechanisms proposed (quote [7]). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (quote [5]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation (quote [6]). Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts involve two hydrogens abstraction and electron transfer (quote [20]), with the first CH bond activation involving rupture of a methylene CH bond (quote [25]).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles affecting lattice oxygen atoms, is rate-limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains accept more electron density. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Stoichiometric reduction rates correlate with MoOx and VOx surface densities and LUMO energy decreases. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to oxide domains' electron acceptance during reduction events, highlighting the role of electronic properties in ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting selectivity. Selective poisoning is ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to weaker allylic CH bonds. Activation energies for propane ODH and propene combustion correlate with adsorption enthalpies and transition state species. Lower activation energy for propene combustion decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, with N2O often favored over O2. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically valuable due to their vast reserves (1). Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial (2). Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, leading to selectivity issues (6). The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds in alkanes contributes to their stability (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst-alkane affinity is essential for CH bond activation (11, 31). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic supports like alumina enhance activity (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion (23). Site isolation improves selectivity (50). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance (25, 29). Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26, 30).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is optimized by selecting appropriate catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, tailored to specific alkanes. Catalyst performance is influenced by alkane type, reaction conditions, and promoters. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are critical for high selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing unwanted reactions. Acid-base properties and oxygen type impact ODH efficiency. Catalyst choice and reaction conditions must align with alkane type. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, and ethoxide ions affect olefinic intermediate formation. The coordination number and environment of the active center influence the ODH reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with vanadium species, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions are significant. The acid-base character of catalysts affects olefinic intermediate formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibits similar surface chemistry, showing high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox properties are support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox behavior. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions, addressing the role of catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with the acid-base character, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, highlighting the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like supported metal oxides, with properties like agglomeration degree, valence state, and electronic characteristics, significantly impact performance. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with optimized VOx domains, balance activity and accessibility, affecting olefin selectivity. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Reduced vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, with the number of reduced centers influenced by the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Site isolation is pivotal for efficient catalyst design. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 enhance ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts. Alkali additives modify MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkene production, encounters the hurdle of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields (Quote 4), whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 5). Notable catalysts include MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, showcasing promising selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by V, Cr, and Mo additives without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion are optimal around 700°C. Lower surface areas favor C2 selectivities due to CH3 reacting with surface O2- ions, producing CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, offering a unique approach to ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, including cationic and dioxygen reduction sites, play a critical role in the reaction mechanism. Site isolation stabilizes specific sites that favor desired reactions, impacting selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, leading to optimal VS+/V4+ ratios. Supported oxide catalysts require characterization techniques like XANES and EXAFS to understand the local symmetry and coordination number of active sites. The optimization of ODH processes involves monitoring the right size of active sites, adjusting material morphology, and regulating the site size and ion ratios through the addition of elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by MoMgO catalysts, promoting selectivity. C-H bond activation yields a propyl radical, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures/reducible catalysts promoting surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation. These factors collectively optimize the process, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene peak at specific ratios, with higher copper content boosting ethane conversion but potentially inhibiting ethylene formation. Selectivity for ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in managing active site distribution for optimized selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, C-H bond activation on metal oxides drives radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. Ethylene yields are higher in ethane OXD due to distinct radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% ethylene selectivity at 75% ethane conversion, showcasing catalysts' role in optimizing the process. The lower C-H bond strength in ethane accelerates reaction rates compared to methane, impacting selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength influencing process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing secondary reactions and avoiding the formation of undesired products, crucial for optimizing the overall process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination aids in water formation and catalyst regeneration. Site isolation enhances selectivity and process efficiency, addressing key challenges in the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. The mechanism includes ethane's C-H activation, H transfer to chromium with ethene release, and site regeneration under H2 evolution. Chromium's structure significantly influences the process, with site isolation enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity, are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance activity and selectivity, making NiCo molybdates a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing the question on catalysts, mechanisms, and optimization in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, improving selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents unwanted interactions, enhancing selectivity and impacting efficiency by affecting active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, CH activation by Cr(III) on silica surfaces is a key mechanism, despite its high activation energy. The reactivity of Cr(III) sites, influenced by their oxygen bridge count to silica, underscores the importance of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are crucial for improved performance. Site isolation, achieved through methods like the TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures, introducing isolated centers onto oxide supports. This strategy is particularly important for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, affecting reactivity through the spatial arrangement of metal atoms. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, demonstrating the significance of site isolation in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review analyzes n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It emphasizes factors governing catalytic efficiency, including catalyst types and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Active site nature, kinetic insights, and proposed mechanisms are critical, with conclusions on field trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging process in heterogeneous catalysis, requiring efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems to overcome activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, emphasizing the importance of identifying a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with mechanisms suggesting the involvement of specific sites with properties like strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species. Electrical conductivity measurements reveal insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the initial activation step. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible pathways, each with several steps occurring on the adsorbed phase. Different mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, involving various sites and species. The primary activation of n-butane involves rupture of a methylene CH bond, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested from thermodynamic considerations. The role of a superoxide or peroxo species had been proposed, although they should not be stable in the presence of the alkane. The O) species proposed to be involved in the activation of n-butane should be more strongly bound and have a much lower mobility. The VSbO catalysts contain several phases, with the active phase being VSbO4, which undergoes redox properties changes under different conditions. The M1 phase, with a network of MO6 octahedra, is active for alkane activation, with the vanadium sites in M7 position undergoing charge transfer leading to a surface O) capable of H abstraction. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, enhancing selectivity, and electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by residence time. MoOx and VOx catalyze through reduction-oxidation cycles, with lattice oxygen atoms playing a critical role. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond, requiring significant electron density in oxide domains. The position of the LUMO energy level affects the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons, impacting catalytic efficiency. Larger domains with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity stabilize transition states, enhancing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize materials for catalysis beyond chemical composition. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies correlate with higher turnover rates, indicating the importance of electron affinity in catalytic functions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity, ascending from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies. Selectivity issues emerge as CH bond activation sites for ODH and alkene combustion are identical, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Metal center reducibility and active lattice oxygen species basicity are critical for catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, with some processes using N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies on Li/MgO show high activity for H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. These radicals couple to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis. The high stability of alkanes, attributed to their electronic structure, poses challenges in industrial processes, making direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, leading to selectivity issues due to the ease of product oxidation. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Site isolation improves selectivity, and the addition of niobia modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, and Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalyst type, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Understanding these factors is crucial for optimizing the ODH process. Catalyst selection must consider the type of alkane and reaction conditions, as the best systems for ethane may be poor for higher alkanes. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing unwanted product formation. Vanadium-based catalysts show different behaviors depending on vanadium species, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role. Reaction conditions, such as feed mixture, temperature, and contact time, also influence selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with high mobility and reactivity toward various molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are pivotal for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites affect catalytic behavior, crucial for selective catalyst development. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide boosts bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, enhancing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides exhibit high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves show high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, notably the degree of metal cation agglomeration and valence state, with supported metal oxides showing improved performance when Me cations are isolated. Vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit lower reduction during ODH than stoichiometric reduction, impacting activity. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. Site isolation is critical for high selectivity, as in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity. Additives like P, K, and alkali metals modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density affecting ODH rates. CH bond activation through alkoxide formation is key to ethylene production. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure, impacting electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical industrial process, faces the challenge that alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Among these, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promise (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized with Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides, and niobium oxide for propane, showing high selectivity. Enhancing niobium oxide with V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium sites' selectivity by being harder to reduce, preventing facile reduction that can lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation, producing ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature, favoring high C2 selectivities at lower surface areas due to CH3 reacting with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. This Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst for oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, impacting process efficiency. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions. Active site size and properties significantly affect selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Active sites for oxidation are 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size influences catalytic properties. Supported oxide catalysts require dynamic consideration under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants and preparation procedures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, facilitated by BrSnsted acid sites as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts, is sensitive to acid-base properties. C-H bond breaking forms propyl radicals homolytically, while alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites for propene production. High temperatures promote alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts favor surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. These factors optimize oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly impact the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity and conversion of alkanes, with selectivity for ethylene and propene peaking at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with propene selectivity linked to substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, as evidenced by studies showing catalytic activity increases with copper concentration up to a point, then remains constant, and selectivity in propene increases rapidly with copper content to a maximum at Cu/Th=0.1.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalysts like Li/MgO achieve 75% C2H6 conversion with 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting their role in process optimization. The mechanism involves CH3 and C2H5 radical formation, with C2H4 yields being higher due to different pathways. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, demonstrating the interplay between catalysts, mechanisms, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength optimization enhancing efficiency. Site isolation boosts selectivity by curbing secondary reactions, addressing high selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The process follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination occur, involving two lattice oxygens for CH bond activation, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, specifically ethane over Cr(III)silica, the reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H abstraction. This process, including H transfer to chromium and site regeneration, is sensitive to the local structure of chromium, underscoring the importance of site isolation in achieving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr), offer a stable system for optimization, with Cr showing potential for high selectivity and conversion. NiCo molybdate serves as an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion, addressing process optimization in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents interactions between radicals, improving selectivity and impacting active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica involves CH activation by oxidative addition, potentially crossing energy states between Cr(III) and Cr(V). However, the high activation energy (around 220 kJ mol-1) for β-hydrogen transfer makes this mechanism unlikely. Site isolation plays a role in selectivity, as evidenced by comparisons of Cr(III)silica surface sites with different oxygen bridges.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneity, excel in propane ODH, highlighting the TMP method's role in developing high-performance catalysts. Site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, enhances selectivity by managing metal atom arrangement, particularly at well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, facilitating selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights factors governing catalytic efficiency, discussing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and conditions affecting activity and selectivity. Key aspects include the nature of active sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, with conclusions on future trends in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems offering unique mechanisms to overcome activation barriers. Selectivity and conversion issues arise due to multiple reaction pathways. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, involving oxidative dehydrogenation as the first step. Different mechanisms have been proposed, including hydrogen abstraction and the involvement of lattice oxygen. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, crucial for selectivity. Catalysts' properties, such as electrical conductivity, help identify active oxygen species. Efficient catalysts, like VPO, are p-type semiconductors, while VSbO is n-type, transforming to p-type under propane. The active site often involves isolated vanadium species near cationic vacancies, stabilizing O) species for alkane activation. The M1 phase, with a network of MO6 octahedra, activates alkanes on vanadium sites, with resonance leading to surface O) for hydrogen abstraction. The interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and reaction mechanisms significantly influences process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, sees reaction rates affected by residence time (Quote 1). MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles (Quote 2), with rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond (Quote 4). Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity (Quotes 7, 22). Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy (Quote 10), paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates (Quote 16). Quantum confinement effects enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition (Quote 28). Turnover rates for ODH increase monotonically as LMCT energies decrease (Quote 20). These findings highlight the interplay between catalyst properties and ODH efficiency, emphasizing the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by cation identity, with activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increasing in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion rises with increasing Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Similar ODH mechanisms are expected on WOx/ZrO2 due to chemical resemblance with Mo oxides. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state species formation enthalpy. Propene combustion has lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, increasing with Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Li/MgO shows high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional conditions, we've achieved high C2 compound yields, addressing the selectivity and conversion challenges in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives the conversion of abundant but less reactive alkanes into valuable products through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The high stability of alkanes, due to their electronic structure, makes their activation challenging, limiting selectivity. Catalysts are crucial, with the initial activation of the C-H bond requiring affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Reducible oxides or dopants are necessary for molecular oxygen activation. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Using N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Catalyst properties, such as the presence of Te or Pd, significantly influence performance and selectivity, with Pd's high affinity for H2 contributing to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane nature. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness based on the alkane type. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates determine selectivity and conversion. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions for optimal efficiency. Site isolation aids in selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. The interplay between these factors is critical for process optimization, as shown by the role of chlorine ions in achieving high ethene yield and the effect of the coordination number of the active center on the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibits similar high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ states emerge, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports affecting vanadium dispersion and species, crucial for catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Active and selective sites in ODH reactions are influenced by vanadium species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. Reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' activity is enhanced with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (Quote 2). Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species being more extensively reduced. The support significantly influences the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH (Quote 4). The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains (Quote 5). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7). In VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (Quote 8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (Quote 9). The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates (Quote 10). Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is rate-determining, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the need for site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by the Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst, which excels in activity and selectivity over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity in propane conversion, with enhanced activity through the addition of V, Cr, and Mo, without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction relative to vanadium promotes selectivity, crucial for efficient alkene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature up to an optimal point, and low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which play a critical role in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are essential for understanding the process. Active sites, particularly isolated sites, are crucial for selectivity, with their size and properties significantly impacting selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 exhibit different catalytic properties depending on their size and structure, with monomeric species often showing acidic features and polymeric species exhibiting redox properties. The size of active sites is important in oxidation catalysis, as demonstrated by the selective oxidation of propene to acrolein or propanal. Structure sensitivity and the size of active sites are key factors in optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalyst studies. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition, needing BrSnsted acid sites, correlates with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are significantly influenced by varying Cu/Th ratios. EPR studies reveal that catalytic activity rises with copper concentration in thoria, peaking at specific ratios. Selectivity for ethylene and propene increases with copper content, reaching maxima before declining. Higher copper contents boost ethane conversion, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the role of site isolation in optimizing the process and addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, critical for ethane and methane conversion, is influenced by catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and optimization. Best catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity. C-H bond activation and radical pathways, like 2H-abstraction, are key mechanisms. Ethane's lower C-H bond strength accelerates reactions, affecting efficiency and selectivity. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "High-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal in selective oxidation of lower alkanes, with MO bond strength and electronic properties, particularly the energy gap between valence and conductive bands, impacting reactivity and ODH process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity. Optimizing MO bond strength and electronic properties is key to improving ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens produces propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, with reversible OH recombination forming water. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, addressing high conversion and selectivity challenges in alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with efficiency sensitive to chromium surface site structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance activity, notably Cr for maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate systems offer a stable optimization alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, potentially enabling direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially improving selectivity and affecting active site distribution, crucial for overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, faces challenges due to high activation energy, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues, as demonstrated by comparisons of different Cr(III)silica surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneities for improved performance. Site isolation, critical for controlling catalytic site structures, boosts selectivity. The TMP method aids in producing high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, affecting the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials, including Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, have been studied, with site isolation playing a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the influence of catalyst composition, reducibility, and oxygen reactivity on efficiency. The nature of active and selective sites, along with reaction mechanisms, is analyzed, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, where the first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficient catalysts feature properties that facilitate alkene oxidation, such as strong Bronsted acidity or electrophilic species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves primary and secondary reactions. MoOx and VOx catalysts undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in VOx and MoOx domains. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity dictates pathway efficiency, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibiting increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity, reflected in adsorption enthalpies, influences ODH vs. combustion rates, with the difference in activation energies increasing as cation acidity increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties affect alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires identical sites, complicating selective poisoning. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors MoOx/ZrO2. Activation energy for propane ODH is the sum of adsorption and transition state formation enthalpies. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than dehydrogenation, impacting k3/k1 ratios. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values, reflecting Lewis acid strength, influence k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is due to metal reducibility and active oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's conversion to valuable chemicals like methanol and ethylene faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's effectiveness in hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This process facilitates C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, significant due to their vast reserves (1), pose challenges in selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules (2). Their low reactivity, especially in lower alkanes, has limited industrial use, yet direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising (3). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, affecting selectivity (6). Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, aiding C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst-alkane affinity is essential for CH bond activation (11). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but enhances selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support is more effective (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion (23). Site isolation improves selectivity (50). Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing ethylene selectivity (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influence vanadium oxidation state, impacting performance (25). Metallic Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with alkane nature affecting catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, determine selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids selectivity. Catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features impact ODH efficiency. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect performance. Chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield, and the coordination number of the active center influences the reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high mobility and reactivity to alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water, with redox behavior dependent on the support type. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. Reducing conditions yield Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ ions, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. Calcination anchors Cr oxides via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are crucial for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites significantly affect supported vanadium oxide catalysts' behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxide shows enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The support significantly affects vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting selectivity. Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design, affecting selectivity to propylene and ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density and domain size. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, and can enhance selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivities (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, offers efficient alkene production. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors boost selectivity by resisting reduction, a common cause of low selectivity, illustrating the role of site isolation in optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature to a certain point. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by facilitating CH3 reaction with surface O2- ions. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, demonstrating the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, crucial for these reactions, can be cationic for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction, requiring efficient electron and oxygen species transfer. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, as it stabilizes specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, crucial for ODH efficiency, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as MoMgO catalyst studies demonstrate. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. Site isolation aids selectivity, impacting overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts significantly influence catalytic activity and selectivity. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts activity, with ethylene and propene selectivity peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity is linked to specific copper(II) sites, while propane activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to substitutional sites. Optimizing site isolation controls active site distribution, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion and ethane/ethylene selectivity, with mechanisms involving C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Site isolation, as demonstrated by a Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions, enhances selectivity, achieving high C2H4 yields at moderate C2H6 conversion. This highlights the role of catalysts, reaction mechanisms, and site isolation in optimizing ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, notably MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, which is essential for high conversion and selectivity in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane using ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, irreversible CH bond activation leads to propene formation, while reversible OH recombination follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism. Two lattice oxygens activate the CH bond, forming alkyl species that desorb as propene, and the remaining OH groups recombine to produce water, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models demonstrate a mechanism involving C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, crucial for process efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by sensitively influencing the local structure of chromium surface sites, impacting reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with Mo content impacting activity and yields. NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, offer high selectivity and improved conversions, making them a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing ODH challenges and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence pathways and selectivity. Supported catalysts and site isolation limit side reactions, enhancing selectivity by controlling radical interactions and active site distribution. Preventing undesired reactions and managing reactive sites for intermediates optimizes the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica surface sites, faces challenges due to a high activation energy (~220 kJ mol-1) and the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex, making dehydrogenation unlikely. β-hydrogen transfer is essential for the catalytic cycle. Catalyst reactivity is influenced by the number of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, with variations affecting the efficiency of ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, as site isolation through methods like TMP enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. Supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO facilitate site isolation, crucial for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces, improving reactivity of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review explores n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, emphasizing catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors such as composition, reducibility, and surface basicity that impact catalytic efficiency. Special focus is given to hydrocarbon activation, active/selective sites, and mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. The review integrates conclusions and future trends in ODH of alkanes, providing a comprehensive analysis.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems crucial for overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is challenging due to the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways. While various mechanisms have been proposed, identifying a common activation site for efficient catalysts remains a goal. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The search for efficient catalysts is a promising challenge in the field. The involvement of O) species for light alkanes activation has been suggested, with the role of superoxide or peroxo species proposed, although stability concerns exist. The activation of the first CH bond involves very reactive oxygen that is weakly bound, and weakly adsorbed O) can play a role, but may promote CC cleavage and total oxidation. The collective influence of catalysts, challenges, mechanisms, and process optimization is critical to the efficiency of the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity affects pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity influences CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. The activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with cation Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Adsorption enthalpy differences and acid-base properties of oxides and supports affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activity (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often requiring N2O over O2. Recent studies on lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) show high activity in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions, addressing the challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation, despite being challenging, is economically significant due to vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics or oxygenates is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has hindered industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to high stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability stems from their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and influences selectivity. Catalyst reactivity and surface intermediates' reaction speed are critical. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping affects vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 explains high ethylene selectivity. Acidic properties of oxides depend on cation charge and radius. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may relate to bulk vs. surface reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Efficiency is determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, and the nature of the support affects the formation of acid and basic centers, influencing olefinic intermediate formation and desorption. The type of alkane influences catalyst choice and reaction conditions (Quote 5), while chlorine ions are critical for high ethene yield (above 30%) (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves shows similar high reactivity and mobility toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with easier reduction on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, critical for C2-C4 alkane catalysis. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer enhanced properties but catalytic behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide boosts bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkane ODH, increasing olefin formation. Various mixed oxides and V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high olefin selectivity. Despite studies, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, with ongoing investigation into the reaction mechanism and selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    