Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by catalysts like supported metal oxides, shows performance affected by agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains, with selectivity to olefins correlating. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Vanadium reduction during ODH is substoichiometric. Both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active, with higher surface reduction boosting propylene selectivity. Supports significantly impact vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica enhancing selectivity. Binary dispersed structures affect VOx domains' reduction and catalytic properties. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides, decomposing to ethylene or oxidizing to oxygenates. Alkali additives modify MoOx domains' structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 are used, but supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes through β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is promising. Mo16V4Nb2 excels over other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity. Niobium oxide has high selectivity for propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Adding V, Cr, and Mo boosts activity without harming selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature up to a certain point enhances C2 product selectivity and methane conversion. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, demonstrating the catalyst's novelty for oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs various catalysts to address challenges in selectivity and conversion. Active sites, including isolated metallic ion sites, are pivotal, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Structure sensitivity is critical, as the fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules influences catalytic performance. Understanding the dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for optimizing their function, as the right size of active sites and ion ratios are monitored and regulated by reactants and preparation methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways are sensitive to catalyst acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also demands BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, with selectivity for ethylene and propene peaking at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts yield 20% methane conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity, involving CH3/C2H5 radical formation. C2H4 production from OXD is double that from methane oxidative coupling. Li/MgO with chloride ions achieves 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. C2H6's weaker C-H bond accelerates reaction rates, underlining C-H bond strength's role in ODH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are critical, with MO bond strength optimization enhancing efficiency. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, boosts selectivity by avoiding unwanted products, addressing a key challenge in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism is proposed, involving irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 dissociative chemisorption, with reversible OH recombination steps forming water, aiding the redox cycle. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions, enhancing selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models activate C-H bonds, facilitate H transfer, and regenerate sites, with mechanisms sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation boosts selectivity, tackling high conversion and selectivity challenges. Catalyst structure and reaction mechanisms interplay, emphasizing site isolation's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates provide a stable system for optimization, with redox elements like Cr enhancing selectivity and conversion, making them a competitive alternative to V-based catalysts for converting propane to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Supported catalyst systems and site isolation control radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and affecting active site distribution. Site isolation prevents radical interactions, improving selectivity, and supported systems manage reactive site availability for intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, leads to an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation on varying Cr(III)silica surface sites is crucial for addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), with high surface areas and homogeneity boosting performance. Site isolation, achieved via techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO highlight the critical role of site isolation in improving reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, spotlighting catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The review also delves into the nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, concluding with insights on future trends. [1] Emphasizes the catalytic conversion of n-butane, and [2] highlights the factors governing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis due to the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, notably VPO and VSbO-based systems, offer unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of possible pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, emphasizing the role of C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts, focusing on site isolation to address selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The search for catalysts for the partial oxidation of light alkanes is a difficult but promising challenge, as highlighted by industrial and academic researchers. A complete modeling of the reaction process would necessitate encompassing the dynamics of the surface and the adsorbed species, as well as the role of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles affecting lattice oxygen atoms, is rate-limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide surfaces. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO states and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity (V5+, Mo6+, W6+) significantly impacts pathways, with activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion following the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, inversely affecting reaction rates. Increased Lewis acidity from V5+ to W6+ enhances the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH is hindered by shared sites required for CH bond activation in both ODH and alkene combustion. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. The ODH mechanism on WOx/ZrO2 mirrors that of MoOx/ZrO2. Propene combustion has a lower activation energy than propene dehydrogenation, affecting k3/k1 ratios. The sequence of catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) is attributed to metal center reducibility and active lattice oxygen basicity. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to valuable chemicals faces low yield challenges, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies on lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence show high activity for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst efficiently couples two ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields of C2 compounds under conventional conditions, marking a significant success in methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to their vast reserves, making their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules crucial for chemical production. Activating alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, is challenging due to their high stability and low reactivity, hindering industrial processes. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is a promising alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization methodologies. Paraffin activation is more challenging than other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity due to the ease of product oxidation. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalyst-alkane affinity is crucial for CH bond activation, influencing selectivity and conversion. Catalyst reactivity determines the rate of surface intermediate reactions. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. The use of N2O enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates, related to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species, affecting activity dramatically. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater impact. Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst-alkane affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by the alkane's nature, catalyst type, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Kinetic models and mechanisms are crucial for understanding ODH, as they help in comparing experimental kinetic dependencies with theoretical equations. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by the catalyst, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also affect ODH performance, with the coordination number of the active center and the environment of the active center playing significant roles. The nature of the alkane influences not only reactivity but also the choice of catalyst, and catalyst selection must be linked to the type of alkane and the reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces exhibits high reactivity and mobility with various molecules, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Its redox behavior, as mentioned in quote [3], is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr ions can exist in different oxidation states, influenced by support type and composition. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility, structure, and coordination number, along with acid/base sites, are critical for catalytic properties. Supported vanadium oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity. V-containing molecular sieves are selective for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the influence of support on vanadium species and catalytic behavior. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, notably supported metal oxides, where agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence, and electronic properties are critical. Vanadium oxide catalysts' performance in propane ODH is optimized with intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. Active VOx domains' reduction and catalytic properties are affected by binary dispersed structures. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts for alkane ODH. In VCoAPO-18, acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 yield low results, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation, correlating with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is a promising alkene production method. Mo16V4Nb2 catalysts excel in ethane conversion, surpassing other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide shows high selectivity for propane conversion, albeit with low conversion rates. Incorporating V, Cr, and Mo into niobium oxide enhances activity without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction, unlike vanadium, boosts selectivity, addressing the challenge of low selectivity caused by facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, up to around 700°C. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation, coupling, and C2 product selectivity. Low surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation states, highlighting its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. Structure sensitivity and the nature of the support significantly impact catalytic properties. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The size and electronic properties of active sites are crucial for selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts (Moro-oka and Ueda). Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition needs BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact oxidative dehydrogenation efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, CuTh oxide catalysts' activity and selectivity are influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Activity rises with copper in thoria, peaking for ethylene and propene selectivity at specific ratios. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion with high ethane/ethylene selectivity, leveraging C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane production from CH3 radicals yields twice as much C2H4 compared to methane coupling, due to differing pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions exemplifies process optimization, achieving 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. The lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates over CH4, illustrating the role of catalysts and site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation, preventing secondary reactions, boosts selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process. Site isolation enhances efficiency, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with efficiency dependent on chromium site structure. Site isolation is critical for selectivity, significantly impacting process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 molybdates are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, enhanced by redox elements like Cr, retaining high selectivity at improved conversions. This system, an alternative to V-based catalysts, shows potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing process optimization in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, enhances selectivity by managing radical formation. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling radical interactions and limiting reactive sites for intermediates, thus preventing unwanted reactions and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, is explored. The formation of an ethylhydridochromium(V) complex is unlikely due to high activation energy. Site isolation plays a critical role in selectivity, as demonstrated by comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites. This analysis highlights the mechanism's limitations and the significance of site isolation for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are pivotal, as site isolation through methods like TMP enhances selectivity and conversion by controlling catalytic site structures. Well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation highlight the importance of site isolation in catalysis, particularly for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces where metal atom arrangement defines reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems, efficiency determinants, and reaction pathways. It underscores hydrocarbon activation and the impact of catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen availability, and surface properties on activity and selectivity. The nature of active sites and kinetic studies are analyzed, leading to insights on future ODH trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with a focus on achieving high selectivity and conversion. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the critical activation step. However, the complexity of selectivity arises from the multitude of possible reaction pathways. The search for a common activation site for efficient catalysts in light alkane selective oxidation is ongoing. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed reaction mechanisms. Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, as highlighted by Quote 2. The complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions, as mentioned in Quote 3, arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways. The goal, as stated in Quote 5, is to propose a common activation site for several efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes involves primary and secondary reactions, with reaction rates influenced by residence time and measurable through alkenes and COx formation (Quote 1). Catalyst turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles (Quote 2), with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond (Quote 4). Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as larger domains better accept electrons (Quote 10). Quantum confinement effects, through domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition (Quote 28).", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. The Lewis acidity of cations, notably V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, influences activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, reflecting cation Lewis acidity, affect relative ODH and combustion rates. CH bond activation in alkane ODH requires the same sites as in alkene combustion, impacting selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are critical for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Historically, methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has yielded poor results, with N2O sometimes favored over O2. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in the presence of O2, effectively abstracting hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates the coupling of two gaseous ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields of C2 compounds under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "The economic significance of converting alkanes, despite their challenging activation, highlights the need for selective conversion to valuable products. The high stability of alkanes limits selectivity under activation conditions, making catalysts essential. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Redox properties and reducible oxides are vital for molecular oxygen activation. Using N2O instead of molecular oxygen improves selectivity in C2-oxygenate formation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but enhances selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. Catalyst modifications, such as adding niobia or doping with Te or Pd, can boost selectivity and reactivity. Understanding the interplay between catalyst structure, reaction conditions, and alkane electronic structure is crucial for optimizing the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with the nature of the alkane dictating catalyst choice. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features collectively affect ODH efficiency. Acid-base properties and oxygen type also influence the reaction's performance. Selecting the right catalyst for the alkane and optimizing reaction conditions are key to process optimization, as shown by the critical role of chlorine ions in generating ethyl radical species for high ethene yield and the effect of the coordination number of the active center on the ODH reaction path.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows high reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water [2]. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports [3]. The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling redox properties [4]. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, influenced by support type and composition [5].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with catalysts' acid-base character, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. Vanadium oxide's catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high selectivity to olefins. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst characteristics, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, and electronic structure. Supported metal oxides, especially with isolated metal cations, enhance ODH performance. The support significantly affects reactivity, with additives modifying acid-base and redox properties, crucial for high selectivity. Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts, as in VCoAPO-18, where both acid and redox sites contribute to high ethylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, and alkali additives influence MoOx domains' electronic and catalytic properties, affecting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, provide higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating dehydrogenation with the formation of oxygenated products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. Niobium in VNbO catalysts enhances selectivity by stabilizing vanadium sites against facile reduction, a common cause of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature. Low surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, optimizing the process efficiency in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, influence process efficiency. Active sites, often molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, significantly impact ODH selectivity and conversion rates. Monomeric species often exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by favoring desired reactions over side reactions. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal ion ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts where propylene formation correlates with the number of such sites. C-H bond activation is homolytic, producing a propyl radical, and high temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition also requires BrSnsted acid sites, highlighting the role of acid-base properties in the process. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence activity and selectivity. Higher copper content boosts activity but affects selectivity differently for ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios. Ethane conversion is enhanced at high copper contents, possibly due to CuO crystallites, which may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a process for ethane/ethylene production, employs catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions, achieving 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity. Challenges include high selectivity and conversion, addressed by site isolation. Reaction mechanisms involve C-H bond activation, radical chemistry, and ethane production from CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 yields are higher in OXD than in methane coupling due to different pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals. Site isolation plays a key role in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal for selective oxidation, with OH bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges. Site isolation is crucial for process optimization, as highlighted by the mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models activate C-H bonds, forming M-alkyl intermediates and undergoing 2H-abstraction. The mechanism involves H transfer to chromium, ethene release, and site regeneration. Site isolation enhances selectivity, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure in process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are promising for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with Mo content impacting activity. Redox elements (V, Fe, Ce, Cr) enhance activity, notably Cr for high selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals are pivotal, affecting reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents unwanted interactions, improving selectivity, and the distribution of active sites impacts selectivity through managed radical-radical interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, leading to the formation of an ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site characteristics, including the number of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, play a critical role in reactivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts excel, particularly in propane ODH, due to high surface areas and homogeneity. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, enhances selectivity. The TMP method, by ensuring controlled site isolation, boosts propane ODH efficiency. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, influenced by site isolation, define reactivity at material and interface levels. Well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation also benefit from site isolation strategies, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, examining catalytic systems, efficiency determinants, and reaction pathways. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms are detailed, with conclusions on future trends. Emphasis is placed on catalytic conversion and factors governing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Efficient alkene oxidation requires specific properties that are not universally present in oxidation catalysts. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The process efficiency is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. [1] The search for catalysts for partial oxidation of light alkanes is a promising but difficult challenge. [2] Efficient catalysts provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step. [3] The complexity arises from multiple possible reaction pathways. [4] No single mechanism stands out. [5] The goal is to propose a common activation site. [6] The first step is oxidative dehydrogenation. [7] Different mechanisms have been proposed. [9] A complete modeling of the reaction process would necessitate encompassing the dynamics of the surface and adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, influenced by residence time, involves primary and secondary reactions. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons during reduction steps. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with increased reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can optimize materials for catalysis beyond chemical composition, impacting LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 exhibit rising activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates (VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2). Lewis acidity impacts CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, affecting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed in VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Historically, methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has faced low yields, with N2O favored over O2. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) in O2's presence efficiently abstracts hydrogen from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane activation, despite being challenging, is economically significant due to their large reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical production. Lower alkanes' low reactivity has preserved them but hindered industrial use. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Paraffin activation is harder due to their stability, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is due to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the first step. Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, while secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te promotes V5 oxidation state, and Pd results in 95% V4, affecting performance. Pd's high affinity for H2 enhances ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with effectiveness varying by alkane type. Reaction mechanisms like C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation addresses selectivity issues. Efficiency is determined by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. Catalyst choice must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield. The coordination number of the active center and its environment influence the ODH path. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, influenced by the support's nature and basicity of additives.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows similar high reactivity toward molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, various Cr states are present, influenced by support type and composition. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface, with structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, along with acid-base properties, are critical for catalytic properties in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impact catalytic behavior, essential for selective catalysts. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, better thermal stability, and larger surface area. Vanadium loading and support nature modify catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5 selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of active and selective sites in short chain alkanes' ODH remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, especially vanadium oxide, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active. Selectivity to propylene increases with higher surface reduction. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane's ODH to propylene, facilitated by niobium oxide, shows high selectivity but low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation and coupling. C2 product selectivity and methane conversion increase up to 700°C. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as CH3 reacts with surface O2- ions, leading to CO and CO2. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, addressing selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are tied to intricate reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, consisting of distinct cationic and dioxygen reduction sites, play a critical role in the reaction, with the transfer of electrons and oxygen species facilitating the process. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions over side reactions. The size and nature of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced for MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact ODH efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, CuTh oxide catalysts' efficiency is influenced by Cu/Th ratios. Higher copper content in thoria boosts catalytic activity, impacting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific ratios. Ethane conversion increases with copper, but excess may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and propene selectivity to Cu 2+ in substitutional sites, optimizing selectivity through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, top catalysts achieve significant methane conversion and ethane/ethylene selectivity, with mechanisms involving C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane production stems from coupled CH3 radicals, while C2H4 yields are capped by secondary reactions. Catalysts for methane oxidative coupling also facilitate ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with ethyl radicals following unique pathways. Li/MgO catalysts notably achieve high C2H4 selectivity at moderate C2H6 conversion, highlighting the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence metal oxides are critical, with MO bond strength affecting reactivity. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances ODH efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity, addressing high selectivity and conversion challenges, and optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as secondary combustion products. The reaction mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption and OH group recombination. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, consistent with the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, highlighting the role of site isolation in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration. Efficiency is sensitive to the local structure of chromium surface sites, underscoring the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation, with molybdenum influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by Cr for selectivity, offer an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation. They show potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process efficiency and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, potentially improving selectivity and affecting active site distribution, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism, involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica, is characterized by a high activation energy, making dehydrogenation unlikely due to the instability of the ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. Site isolation is pertinent to selectivity issues. Comparing Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges reveals differences in reactivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal, with high surface areas and homogeneities enhancing performance. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly boosts selectivity. The TMP method, which produces high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, is essential for propane ODH. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO have been explored. Site isolation is pivotal for the reactivities of well-defined iron sites in selective hydrocarbon oxidation, underscoring its role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and surface basicity impact catalytic efficiency. The text also covers factors affecting both activity and selectivity, detailing the nature of active and selective sites. Kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are analyzed, concluding with future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a challenging yet promising field in catalysis, aiming to efficiently convert alkanes to alkenes. Efficient catalysts, notably VPO and VSbO-based systems, have been pivotal in overcoming the activation barrier of alkanes. However, achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the complexity of multiple reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism is universally accepted. The search for a common activation site for efficient catalysts is ongoing. Site isolation plays a crucial role in stabilizing active species, enhancing selectivity. Lattice oxygen is involved in the primary activation of n-butane, and hydrogen abstraction is a probable mechanism. O) species are critical for alkane activation. Dopants significantly influence the catalytic properties of VPO catalysts. Efficient catalysts exhibit p-type and n-type semiconductor properties under different conditions, affecting the reaction mechanism. VSbO catalysts, containing VSbO4 as the active phase, undergo redox changes that impact their catalytic activity. Active sites on vanadium antimonate could be isolated vanadium species neighboring a cationic vacancy, stabilizing O) species for alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond, influenced by the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons. Larger domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity stabilize transition states in CH bond activation, enhancing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, as observed in various oxide domains. Quantum confinement effects, determined by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events, as evidenced by the correlation between UV-visible absorption edge energy and LUMO energy levels, impacting catalytic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx/ZrO2 catalysts are pivotal. Activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion rise from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2, inversely impacting reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, like V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, affects activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, affecting selectivity. Propene's reactivity stems from its weaker allylic CH bond. Reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities, with intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility essential for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has seen poor yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst promotes C2 compound production by coupling two gaseous ·CH3 radicals, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Economic interest drives the conversion of alkanes, despite their challenging activation compared to unsaturated hydrocarbons, due to their vast reserves. Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. The low reactivity of lower alkanes has preserved them but also hindered their industrial use, making direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts catalytic performance, emphasizing the need for in situ characterization. Surface interactions between hydrocarbons and catalysts are critical for activation and selectivity, with catalyst reactivity and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species determining selectivity. Reducible oxides are essential for molecular oxygen activation, while dopants provide reducible sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with site isolation improving selectivity. Modifying catalysts with niobia, Te, or Pd alters redox properties and acidity, affecting selectivity to ethylene. The initial activation of the C-H bond requires affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface. Acidic properties of oxides are influenced by the cation's charge and radius. Discrepancies in catalyst activity and reducibility are related to bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness with alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions enhance ethene yield by generating ethyl radicals, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or be further oxidized. The coordination number and environment of the active center affect the ODH path. For vanadium-based catalysts, different vanadium species correlate with varying catalyst behaviors. The strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions and the nature of the support influence acid and basic centers, affecting olefinic intermediate formation and olefin desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, reacting with various molecules. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with chemically softer supports facilitating reduction. Cr ions can exist in multiple oxidation states under reducing conditions, influenced by support type and composition. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor to the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions. The oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties, and Cr chemistry is determined by the isoelectric point, surface area, and Cr loading.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character significantly impacts vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are crucial for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of surface vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer higher mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area, modifying catalytic behavior based on the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The catalytic properties of bulk and supported vanadia catalysts are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, crucial for olefin production, is influenced by catalyst properties, including agglomeration degree, acid-base characteristics, metal cation valence state, and electronic properties. Vanadium oxide catalysts' activity in propane ODH rises with higher V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate-sized VOx domains, correlating with monolayer structure development for optimal selectivity. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric, with catalytic activity linked to the alkane-to-oxygen ratio. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced, leading to higher selectivity to propylene with greater surface reduction. The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective than alumina or titania. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are vital for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts. Ethane CH bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Alkali additives modify MoOx domains' structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity. Among various systems, MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step. High temperatures, required for ethane ODH, favor gas phase reactions. Proposed mechanisms involve Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction. Selectivity is correlated with site distance, highlighting the need for site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity, though with low conversion, improved by adding V, Cr, and Mo without affecting selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium enhances selectivity by resisting reduction, preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivity by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking metal ions with variable oxidation states, highlighting its uniqueness in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Active sites, often molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, significantly influence catalytic properties, with size impacting selectivity and conversion. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features, favoring total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity by minimizing side reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. The Mars and van Krevelen mechanism, involving lattice oxygen ions with electrophilic or nucleophilic character, is crucial. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the mobility of the oxide lattice, is essential for understanding their functioning. Active sites' size and electronic properties are monitored by reactants and preparation procedures, leading to optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective oxidation of propane to propylene, a critical process in oxidative dehydrogenation, is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated with MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are influenced by the acid-base properties of catalysts, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "Varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, enhancing catalytic activity with increased copper concentration in thoria. Selectivity for ethylene and propene peaks at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites that may inhibit ethylene formation. Ethylene selectivity correlates with copper(II) sites, while propane activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions boost conversion and selectivity, underlining site isolation's role in selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals, with ethane's lower C-H bond strength enhancing reaction rates. Challenges include secondary reactions that limit yields. Optimizing the process entails controlling radical chemistry and minimizing surface interactions that lead to undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength dictating reactivity and selectivity. Optimizing electronic properties, notably MO bond strength, boosts efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity by curtailing undesired product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, demonstrated over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts, involves irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to alkene formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, while reversible OH recombination steps form water, affecting selectivity. This mechanism addresses high conversion and selectivity challenges in alkane dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediate formation, and 2H-abstraction, with site isolation playing a critical role in enhancing selectivity. The mechanism's sensitivity to the local structure around chromium underscores the importance of site isolation in optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 metal molybdates are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance selectivity and conversion. NiCo molybdate systems offer an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, with potential for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably site isolation in supported systems, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and affecting active site distribution, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "Exploring oxidative dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica, CH activation by oxidative addition is considered, involving a double oxidation of chromium. The resulting ethylhydridochromium(V) complex's instability necessitates β-hydrogen transfer, but the high activation energy makes this mechanism unlikely. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with varying oxygen bridges, plays a critical role in selectivity, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in achieving high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are key in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), with high surface areas and homogeneities boosting performance. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity. Supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO play a crucial role in site isolation, optimizing the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides. Well-defined iron sites for selective oxidation also benefit from site isolation, streamlining the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing catalytic systems, kinetics, and mechanisms. It covers unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and key factors impacting catalytic efficiency, such as composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface properties. The nature of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and reaction mechanisms, are analyzed to optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems crucial for overcoming the activation step (Quote [2]). Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multitude of possible reaction pathways (Quote [3]). Various mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism stands out (Quote [4]). The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote [5]). The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. Electrical conductivity measurements help identify active oxygen species. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx via reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with the ability to accept electrons. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design beyond chemical composition, impacting LMCT absorption edge energy and turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 exhibit increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity affects CH bond energy differences and adsorption enthalpies, impacting propane ODH and propene combustion rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) raises the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion shares sites, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond compared to propane's methylene group. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of active lattice oxygen species explain the catalytic activity sequence (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane, forming ·CH3 radicals. These radicals couple to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, with vast reserves, are economically valuable for conversion into aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules. Their high stability makes activation challenging, particularly for paraffins, leading to selectivity issues due to the ease of product oxidation. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising, emphasizing the need for catalyst development. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions affects performance, highlighting the importance of in situ characterization. The activation of alkanes requires a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface, influenced by the CH bond's high energy, especially in primary carbons. Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity and conversion. Molecular oxygen activation needs reducible oxides, with N2O being more selective for C2-oxygenate formation. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports and reducibility enhance activity, with higher reducibility correlating to higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties of supports, like alumina and vanadium oxide, influence ethane conversion. Site isolation improves selectivity, and modifications like niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts enhance redox properties and selectivity to ethylene. Doping with Te or Pd affects the oxidation state of vanadium, impacting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity. Catalyst surface properties, including acid-base features, are critical for alkane activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type, and site isolation aids in selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively affected by catalyst type, reaction conditions, and alkane features. As shown, vanadium-based catalysts exhibit different behaviors based on vanadium species, and the presence of chlorine ions is essential for high ethene yield. Understanding these factors is key to optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr exhibits high reactivity and mobility with molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water, showing similar surface chemistry on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves. Its redox behavior, more easily reduced on softer supports, is controlled by the oxide support acting as a ligand. These factors are pivotal for understanding the catalyst's role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, impacting process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character impacts vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are crucial for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective. The coordination number, aggregation state of vanadium oxide species, and acid/base sites' presence significantly influence catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages, but their catalytic behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support, with ongoing research on the reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium oxide, exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH stems from adsorbed oxygen species. Vanadium reduction during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction boosts selectivity to propylene. The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Binary dispersed structures affect the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene aligns with work function values. Alkali metals modify the structure of MoOx domains, influencing electronic and catalytic properties. C-H bond activation forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates. Site isolation is critical for efficient catalyst design in alkane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces a key challenge: alkene oxidation is faster than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 perform ODH but with low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity, with MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO showing promise. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and β-H abstraction mechanisms. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, correlating with the distance between sites, as observed in supported systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene at low temperatures, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide shows high selectivity, with low conversion, enhanced by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction promotes selectivity, preventing facile reduction that can lead to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature and lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivity and methane conversion, limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion. Challenges arise from complex reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity, stabilizing active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of active sites impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, MoO3 and V2O5 exhibit different catalytic properties based on their structure and size, with monomeric species often showing acidic features and polymeric species displaying redox properties. The role of the support, such as silica or alumina, also affects catalytic behavior by influencing the adsorption of anions and the pH of the solution. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, with the best catalysts often requiring a specific fitting between the solid surface and reactant molecules. Active sites for oxidation reactions are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and composition significantly influence catalytic properties. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can be used to better characterize these clusters. Oxidation catalysts are dynamic under reaction conditions, with the right size of active sites monitored by reactants leading to optimal VS+/V4+ ratios and regulated by preparation procedures and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Propane's selective oxidation to propylene, optimized by BrSnsted acid sites as demonstrated by MoMgO catalysts, is sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed, enhancing process efficiency. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlating with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity and selectivity for ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, and for propane, activity is linked to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, with selectivity in propene attributed to substitutional Cu 2+ ions. These findings highlight the role of site isolation in optimizing selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalysts achieve significant conversion and selectivity, with methane oxidative coupling yielding 20% conversion and 80% C2 selectivity. The mechanism involves radical chemistry, with ethane production via CH3 radical coupling. Secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. Catalysts for methane oxidative coupling are also effective for ethane OXD, with alkyl radical formation as the initial step. Pathways for methyl and ethyl radicals differ, enhancing ethane OXD efficiency. A Li/MgO catalyst achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with optimized electronic properties, particularly intermediate MO bond strength, crucial for selective oxidation. Site isolation boosts selectivity by curtailing secondary reactions, leading to improved process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, involving irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism includes C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, crucial for ethane conversion to ethene. Efficiency is governed by chromium site structure, with site isolation enhancing selectivity. The process involves C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration under H2 evolution.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective in propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr enhance the binary NiCo molybdates, with Cr maintaining high selectivity at improved conversions. NiCo molybdate serves as an alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, suitable for direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation specifically manages radical interactions, preventing undesired reactions and optimizing active site distribution, crucial for process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis reveals CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica, with high activation energy, making it an unlikely dehydrogenation route. Site characteristics, including the number of oxygen bridges to the silica surface, significantly impact process efficiency and selectivity, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, excel in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures and enhancing selectivity, is achieved through methods like TMP, particularly important for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Studies on Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO supports highlight the vital role of site isolation in selective hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing ODH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, detailing unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and how catalyst composition, reducibility, and surface properties impact efficiency. It discusses the nature of active sites and the role of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. Kinetic studies and mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are analyzed, with conclusions on future trends in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO systems overcoming the activation step. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complex due to multiple simultaneous reaction pathways. Various mechanisms have been proposed, emphasizing the need for a common activation site for efficient catalysts. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, crucial for selectivity. Electrical conductivity measurements reveal insights into the existence of oxidizing species, aiding in identifying active oxygen species. The first step often involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with lattice oxygen playing a key role in alkane activation. Different sites and mechanisms have been proposed, including hydrogen abstraction and electron transfer, as illustrated by the (VO)2P2O7 phase's p-type semiconducting properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity enhance electron acceptance, stabilizing transition states and increasing reactivity. Propane ODH rates rise with higher surface density and lower edge energy. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. These trends are consistent across various reducible oxide domains and supports, reflecting the importance of LUMO energy levels in catalytic turnover rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. The Lewis acidity of cations, from V5+ to W6+, enhances the activation energy difference between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. The reducibility of metal centers and basicity of lattice oxygen species are crucial for catalytic activities, highlighting the importance of intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility for selective ODH.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show Li/MgO's high efficiency in H abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst facilitates C2 compound production via ·CH3 radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional conditions, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, abundant but less reactive, are economically significant for conversion. Selective paraffin conversion to aromatics, unsaturates, or oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical synthesis. Alkane activation is challenging, limiting industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is promising. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization. Alkanes' high stability, due to their electronic structure, makes activation harder, affecting selectivity. Catalyst affinity with hydrocarbons promotes activation and selectivity, influenced by the catalyst's reactivity and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides, with dopants providing sites for non-reducible oxides. N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers. Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Niobia addition modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene. Te and Pd doping influence oxidation states, affecting performance. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for C-H bond activation. Surface acidity is influenced by cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by the nature of the alkane and reaction conditions. Effective catalysts for specific alkanes include B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P, alongside reducible transition metal oxides. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are crucial. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters impact ODH performance. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions decompose to ethene or further oxidize to CO and CO2. The coordination number of the active center and the environment of the active site affect the reaction path. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the strength and reducibility of bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves exhibit high reactivity and mobility, with redox behavior influenced by support type and composition. Softer supports ease reduction, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas favor polychromate formation. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor to the surface via reactions with hydroxyl groups, with molecular structure determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports significantly impact vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination and aggregation, along with acid/base sites, are crucial for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their catalytic behavior is modified by the nature of the support and vanadium loading. Mixing vanadium oxide with other metal oxides, such as in VMgO and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, enhances selectivity for olefins in the ODH of short chain alkanes. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties related to V-species' coordination and environment. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, and the nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for ODH of short chain alkanes are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    