Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive analysis of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes: catalysts, challenges, reaction mechanisms, and process optimization'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, supported metal oxides' performance is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Vanadium oxide catalysts, with their reduction and catalytic properties affected by the support and binary dispersed structures (Quotes 2, 4, 5), show increased activity with intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (Quote 3). Additives modify acid-base and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide (Quote 6), while site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkane-to-alkene conversion, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity (Quote 2, 3). Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, whereas supported systems provide higher activity and selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Specific systems like MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO show promising selectivities (Quote 6). CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes (Quote 7, 9). An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed (Quote 10). Site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites, is crucial for selectivity (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene, outperforming other mixed-metal oxides. Propane to propylene conversion benefits from niobium oxide's high selectivity, enhanced by V, Cr, and Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction boosts selectivity, crucial for preventing low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity for C2 products and methane conversion increase with temperature. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst lacking variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion. Active sites, crucial for ODH, can stabilize reactions over side reactions, enhancing selectivity. Site isolation plays a key role in addressing selectivity issues. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic features leading to total oxidation, whereas low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. Oxidation reactions are structure-sensitive, depending on the local and surface structure of oxide catalysts. Active sites are molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms, whose size and composition influence catalytic properties. Techniques like XANES, EXAFS, and RED can be used to better characterize these 'clusters' on the surface, aiding in understanding their role in catalytic reactions. The dynamic nature of catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, a key process in oxidative dehydrogenation, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Reaction pathways are influenced by acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding propyl radicals. High temperatures promote alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts favor surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition, which requires BrSnsted acid sites, correlates with propylene formation in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact process efficiency, with site isolation addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts impact catalytic activity and selectivity. Higher copper content in thoria boosts activity but affects selectivity, peaking for ethylene and propene at specific ratios. Ethane conversion increases with copper, potentially inhibiting ethylene. Selectivity for ethylene is linked to copper(II) sites, while for propene, it's due to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO with chloride ions boosts C2H4 selectivity and C2H6 conversion, exploiting C-H bond activation to form alkyl radicals. C2H5 radicals, identified by MIESR, follow distinct pathways with O2, yielding higher C2H4 compared to methane oxidative coupling. The weaker C-H bond in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates. Challenges arise from secondary reactions that limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields, particularly on the catalyst surface and in the gas phase, hindering process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with intermediate MO bond strength crucial for selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, enhancing selectivity. Optimizing catalysts' electronic properties, specifically MO bond strength, improves process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, addressing selectivity and conversion challenges, thus optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over Cr(III)silica, the mechanism involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H abstraction, with site isolation playing a critical role in selectivity. The process includes C-H activation, H transfer, and chromium site regeneration, highlighting the sensitivity of dehydrogenation to the local structure of chromium surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing activity and yields. Redox elements, notably Cr, enhance selectivity and conversion, making NiCo molybdates a competitive alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation, addressing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, is pivotal for controlling radical formation and improving selectivity by limiting unwanted side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired interactions, enhancing selectivity by managing active site distribution and restricting reactive sites for certain intermediates, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) mechanism involving CH activation over Cr(III)silica is explored, revealing high activation energy and instability of intermediates, making it unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, contributing to ODH process optimization by identifying less effective mechanisms and emphasizing the importance of selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, with high surface areas and homogeneities, excel in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Site isolation, achieved through methods like TMP, enhances selectivity by controlling catalytic site structures. Supports such as Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO are pivotal for selective hydrocarbon oxidation at well-defined iron sites, impacting the reactivities of materials like bimetallic oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review centers on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms that govern hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and the impact of composition, conditions, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity on activity and selectivity. The analysis delves into active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and mechanisms, concluding with insights on process optimization and the role of site isolation in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) poses a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, as noted by researchers (Quote 1). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, have been developed to overcome the activation step, a critical process component (Quote 2). Achieving high selectivity and conversion remains difficult due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways (Quote 3). Various mechanisms have been proposed for alkane activation, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to propose a common activation site for efficient catalysts. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The first step of alkane transformation is oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by residence time effects on alkenes and COx formation. Catalytic turnovers for MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with optimized electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, inversely affecting reaction rates. Higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) increases the activation energy difference between ODH and combustion, influencing ODH and combustion rates. Adsorption enthalpy and entropy differences, and acid-base properties, affect k3/k1 ratios and alkene yields. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, hindering selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its weaker allylic CH bond. Activation energy for ODH is the sum of adsorption enthalpy and transition state formation enthalpy. Lower propene combustion activation energy decreases k3/k1 ratios, enhancing propene yields. ΔE1 - ΔE3 values correlate with Lewis acid strength. Reducibility and basicity of metal centers and lattice oxygen species determine catalytic activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2). Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields and sometimes uses N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's efficiency in hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This process enables C2 compound production via radical coupling, achieving high yields under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their challenging activation, are economically significant due to their vast reserves, making their conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules crucial for chemical production (Quote 1). Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive industrial alternative (Quote 4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (Quote 5). Paraffin activation is harder due to their high stability, limiting selectivity (Quote 6). Alkanes' high stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial step (Quote 7). Primary carbons have the highest CH energy bond, whereas secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive (Quote 8). Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for CH bond activation (Quote 9). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (Quote 10). Reducible oxides are required for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing reducible sites for non-reducible oxides (Quote 12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenates than molecular oxygen (Quote 35). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity (Quote 38). Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (Quote 39). Acidic support increases activity, but reducible support has a greater effect (Quote 20). Higher reducibility leads to higher TOF numbers (Quote 21). Acid-base and redox properties affect ethane conversion (Quote 49). Site isolation improves selectivity (Quote 50). Niobia addition modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity (Quote 28). Te promotes V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, explaining different performances (Quote 29). Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (Quote 30). Catalyst affinity and surface acid/base features are critical for alkane activation (Quote 31).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalysts, reaction conditions, and alkane type. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, are critical for selectivity and conversion. Different alkanes require specific catalysts for optimal performance. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are essential for understanding selectivity issues. Acid-base properties, type of oxygen, and promoters significantly affect ODH performance. The efficiency of the ODH process is a collective result of these factors, with conditions like temperature and contact time also impacting selectivity and activity. Understanding these interactions is crucial for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows similar high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water, as per quote [1] and [2]. Its redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports (quote [3]). The oxide support acts as a ligand, controlling Cr's redox properties, crucial for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes and addressing selectivity and conversion challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, the acid-base character of metal oxide support significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties for C2-C4 alkanes. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in ODH of short chain alkanes. The coordination and environment of V-species modify redox properties, influencing catalytic behavior. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, highlighting the ongoing investigation into reaction mechanisms and selective sites for ODH of short chain alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties (Quote 1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts' reactivity is significantly affected by the support (Quote 4), with binary dispersed structures impacting reduction and catalytic properties (Quote 5). Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties (Quote 6). Site isolation is key in designing efficient catalysts (Quote 7), as seen in VCoAPO-18, where acid and redox sites enhance ethylene selectivity (Quote 8). Vanadia-based catalysts are generally more active (Quote 9), and alkali additives affect MoOx domains' structure and catalytic properties (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates and 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. Site isolation is crucial for selectivity between dehydrogenation and oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, specifically ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized by Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion over other mixed-metal oxides. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity for propane conversion, further enhanced by V, Cr, or Mo additives. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction, unlike vanadium, improves selectivity by preventing facile reduction that typically causes low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Li/MgO catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation and coupling. Lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities, as reacting CH3 with surface O2- ions predominantly leads to CO and CO2, highlighting a selectivity challenge. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, which play a critical role in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction are pivotal. Active sites, often involving metal ions and oxygen species, are essential, with site isolation stabilizing specific sites that favor desired reactions. The size and electronic properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5, exhibit different catalytic properties depending on the nature of the support, with monomeric species often showing acidic features and polymeric species exhibiting redox properties. Optimization strategies include careful control of the active site size and the environment to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, as demonstrated by Moro-oka and Ueda's MoMgO catalyst study, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways' sensitivity to acid-base properties varies, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts indicates. These factors collectively enhance the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes' efficiency, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene peak at specific copper concentrations. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, surface Cu 2+ ions drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, employing metal oxides for C-H bond activation, faces challenges in achieving high conversion and selectivity. Methane's best catalysts reach 20% conversion with 80% ethane/ethylene selectivity, while ethane production is mainly via CH3 radical coupling. C2H4 and C2H6 yields are limited by secondary reactions. Ethane OXD over Li/MgO with chlorides achieved 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion. Weaker C-H bonds in C2H6 than in CH4 lead to faster reaction rates. Site isolation enhances selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, where MO bond strength dictates reactivity and process efficiency. Optimizing electronic properties, especially MO bond strength, enhances performance. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, boosting selectivity. The energy gap between valence and conductive bands influences electron transfer, impacting catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens leads to propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, highlighting the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models activate C-H bonds, transfer H, and regenerate sites, with mechanisms sensitive to chromium's local structure. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, impacting process efficiency. The reaction involves C-H activation, ethene loss, and chromium site regeneration with H2 evolution, highlighting the interplay between catalyst structure and reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective in propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, optimized with redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, show promise. Notably, Cr in NiCo molybdate systems retains high selectivity at enhanced conversions, making them a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation, by managing radical-radical interactions and active site distribution, prevents undesired reactions, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The ODH mechanism involving Cr(III)silica's oxidative addition to activate CH bonds is discussed, with a high activation energy suggesting its improbability for dehydrogenation. Site isolation's role in enhancing reactivity and selectivity is highlighted, crucial for overcoming selectivity issues in ODH processes. This analysis underscores the interplay between catalysts and mechanisms in achieving high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, vanadium-based catalysts with high surface areas and homogeneities are key, as site isolation, achieved by methods like TMP, optimizes catalytic site structures, enhancing selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, efficiency factors, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and analyzes catalyst composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, nature of oxygen species, electrical conductivity, and surface basicity. The review also explores active and selective sites, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, concluding with future trends, as highlighted in [1] and [2].", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO and VSbO-based systems playing a crucial role in alkane activation. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is a significant challenge due to the multitude of possible reaction pathways. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism stands out as universally applicable. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, which could be related to the p-type semiconducting properties of the solids, allowing hydrogen abstraction by a surface O) species. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of ODH is influenced by the interplay between catalyst properties, selectivity challenges, conversion rates, and proposed mechanisms. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, provide mechanisms that overcome the activation step, and the complexity of selective alkane oxidation reactions arises from the number of possible simultaneous reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is influenced by residence time on alkenes and COx formation. MoOx and VOx catalysts operate via reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by CH bond activation on lattice oxygen atoms. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance, stabilizing transition states for CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, paralleling trends in stoichiometric reduction rates. Quantum confinement effects, influenced by domain size and electronic isolation, enable the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx/ZrO2 exhibits lower activation energies and higher reaction rates than MoOx/ZrO2 and WOx/ZrO2, influenced by the cation identity. Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+) impacts activation energy differences between propane ODH and propene combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation sites are shared between alkane ODH and alkene combustion, affecting selectivity. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Catalyst properties play a crucial role in ODH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene yields are low, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies show lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) effectively abstracts hydrogen from methane to form ·CH3 radicals, which couple to produce C2 compounds. Under conventional catalytic conditions, high yields of C2 compounds from methane conversion have been achieved.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, though less reactive than unsaturated hydrocarbons, are economically significant due to their vast reserves (1). Selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is essential for chemical product synthesis (2). The low reactivity of lower alkanes has hindered their industrial use, but direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative (3). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions impacts catalytic performance, highlighting the need for in situ characterization (5). Alkane activation is challenging due to their high stability, leading to potential selectivity issues (6). The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds in alkanes protects carbon atoms, making CH bond cleavage the first step in hydrocarbon transformation (7). Secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive, facilitating C3 hydrocarbon activation (8). Catalyst affinity with alkanes is crucial for CH bond activation (11). Catalyst reactivity and hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction determine selectivity (10). Molecular oxygen activation requires reducible oxides or dopants for non-reducible oxides (12). N2O is more selective for C2-oxygenate formation than molecular oxygen (14). Surface electrophilic oxygen species cause non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation (16). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (17). Acidic supports like alumina increase activity, but reducible supports have a greater effect (20). Higher reducibility correlates with higher TOF numbers (21). Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion (23). Niobia addition to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties, increasing selectivity to ethylene (22, 24). Te and Pd doping influences vanadium oxidation states, impacting performance (25). Pd's high affinity for H2 contributes to ethylene selectivity (26).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalyst type, alkane nature, and reaction conditions. Catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, vary in effectiveness for different alkanes. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, impact selectivity and conversion. Site isolation aids selectivity by preventing undesired product formation. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters affect ODH performance. The efficiency of ODH is collectively determined by these factors. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the coordination number of the active center influences the reaction path. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions, as the nature of alkane influences not only reactivity but also the choice of catalyst. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr ions display high reactivity and mobility with various molecules on amorphous surfaces and molecular sieves, with redox behavior influenced by support type and composition. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr5+, Cr3+, and Cr2+ are present, with coordination and polymerization degrees dependent on the support. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. After calcination, Cr oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character significantly influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages like higher mechanical strength and thermal stability. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide on other metal oxides enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves are highly selective for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. The nature of vanadium species and catalytic behavior depends on the metal oxide support. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and support influence. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, metal valence state, and electronic properties. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with intermediate-sized VOx domains, enhance activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, affecting catalytic centers. Both isolated and polymeric vanadium species are active, with polymerized VO4 species more extensively reduced. Higher surface reduction leads to higher selectivity to propylene. The support significantly influences vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. The formation of binary dispersed structures affects the reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains. Selectivity to propylene correlates with work function values, and secondary surface metal oxide additives enhance propane activation. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are crucial for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity increasing with Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo-O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower ODH activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx electronic and catalytic properties, affecting CH bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a critical reaction, faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation than alkane conversion, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity compared to bulk metal oxides like V2O5. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to proposed Malkyl intermediates and 2H-abstraction mechanisms. Selectivity issues are addressed by site isolation, correlating with the distance between sites, to enhance dehydrogenation over oxygenated product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, converting ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is optimized using Mo16V4Nb2 and niobium oxide catalysts. Mo16V4Nb2 excels in ethane conversion, while niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane. Adding V, Cr, and Mo to niobium oxide boosts activity without sacrificing selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity by resisting facile reduction, which often leads to low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and further oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion increase with temperature, peaking at around 700°C. Lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation, making this system a novel oxidation catalyst that addresses selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, to overcome challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, are pivotal. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites that favor desired reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported catalysts, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/TiO2, exhibit different catalytic properties based on the size and nature of the active sites. Monomeric species often show acidic features, leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is crucial for understanding their functioning, as the right size of active sites is monitored by reactants, preparation procedures, and additive elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is significantly influenced by BrSnsted acid sites, as demonstrated by the correlation between propylene yield and the number of these sites in MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to the acid-base properties of the catalyst, with C-H bond breaking being homolytic, leading to a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed to enhance efficiency. Propene production from the decomposition of alkoxy species requires BrSnsted acid sites, underscoring the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts influence activity and selectivity. Increased copper in thoria boosts catalytic activity, with selectivity in ethylene and propene peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper contents enhance ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation due to CuO crystallites. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional sites enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by controlling active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, catalysts like Li/MgO with chloride ions achieve 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, highlighting the importance of radical chemistry and C-H bond activation. The initial step for CH4 and C2H6 is alkyl radical formation, with subsequent pathways influenced by O2 presence. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues, while secondary reactions limit C2H4 and C2H6 yields. The MIESR system identifies C2H5 radicals, and the lower C-H bond strength in C2H6 accelerates reaction rates, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with MO bond strength and energy gap between valence and conductive bands dictating reactivity. Optimizing electronic properties, especially the MO bond, boosts ODH efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by preventing secondary reactions and avoiding the formation of undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination, where two lattice oxygens activate CH bonds in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, following a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "Ethane's oxidative dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica involves C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, with the mechanism sensitive to chromium surface sites' local structure. Site isolation enhances selectivity, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum influencing catalytic activity. Redox elements, particularly Cr, boost activity and selectivity. NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization and are a promising alternative to V-based catalysts for propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing selectivity issues through site isolation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated radicals significantly impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, notably supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for certain intermediates, optimizing the process and addressing selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), the mechanism involving CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica is improbable due to a high activation energy of around 220 kJ mol-1. Comparing different Cr(III)silica surface sites, including those with two and three oxygen bridges to the silica surface, indirectly addresses selectivity issues through site isolation, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others, highlighting the importance of high surface areas and homogeneity for enhanced performance. Site isolation, critical for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly improves selectivity. The TMP method enables the creation of high-performance catalysts with controlled site isolation, impacting propane ODH efficiency. Studies on Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO supports reveal that site isolation plays a key role in the reactivity and selectivity of iron sites for hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, focusing on catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It highlights factors governing catalytic efficiency, including catalyst composition, reducibility, and surface basicity. Active and selective site nature, along with reaction pathways, are analyzed, emphasizing the interplay between activity and selectivity. Kinetic insights and future trends are also discussed, providing a comprehensive analysis of the process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) presents a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming activation barriers. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is complicated by the multiplicity of simultaneous reaction pathways. While various mechanisms have been proposed, identifying a common activation site for efficient catalysts is the goal. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes intermediates between lattice and adsorbed oxygen species, addressing selectivity issues. Efficient catalysts provide unique mechanisms for hydrocarbon activation, overcoming the activation step. The complexity arises from multiple reaction pathways without desorption. A common activation site could improve light alkane selective oxidation. The process efficiency is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity by stabilizing active species intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, involves reduction-oxidation cycles in MoOx and VOx catalysts, impacting lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates, limited by the reduction step, activate the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, stabilize transition states, enhancing reactivity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, indicating the reactivity of MoOx surfaces as larger domains become increasingly able to accept electron density. Quantum confinement effects, by controlling domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design beyond chemical composition, affecting LMCT energies and turnover rates. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to electron acceptance during reduction events, crucial for alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 show that activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion increase in the sequence VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity of cations, adsorption enthalpies, and CH bond energies significantly influence ODH and combustion rates. The difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion increases with higher Lewis acidity (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+). Selective poisoning strategies are ineffective due to shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and combustion. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to useful chemicals faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from CH4, forming ·CH3 radicals. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals to produce C2 compounds, achieving high yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, with vast reserves, are economically significant for selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules. Their activation is challenging due to high stability, making ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenates an attractive alternative. Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is crucial for performance, underlining the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is hindered by their stability, affecting selectivity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but enhances selectivity to oxygen-containing species. Acidic supports increase activity, but reducible supports have a more significant impact. The addition of niobia modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Site isolation improves selectivity. The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% of V4, affecting performance. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, impacting selectivity and conversion. Catalyst choice is critical, varying with alkane type. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Site isolation aids in selectivity. Reaction conditions and specific alkane features affect process efficiency. Vanadium-based catalysts' behavior correlates with different vanadium species, and the environment of the active center influences the reaction path. Chlorine ions are crucial for high ethene yield, and ethoxide ions can decompose to ethene or further oxidize. Catalysts' acid-base character affects olefin formation and desorption.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high mobility and reactivity to alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water, with redox behavior influenced by the support type. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, and the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Support type and composition determine the presence of various Cr states under reducing conditions and affect polychromate formation at higher loadings and lower surface areas. After calcination, chromium oxides anchor via reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside acid-base characteristics, are crucial for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective, with coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites impacting catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides enhance bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, exhibit high selectivity. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion, with catalytic behavior modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing the dependence of vanadium species and catalytic behavior on the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties: metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties of supported metal oxides. Selectivity and conversion are major challenges, with site isolation crucial for selectivity. Reaction mechanisms include C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Vanadium oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain size, and COx formation in ethane ODH is linked to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is less than stoichiometric. Catalyst support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity, with silica-supported catalysts being more selective. Acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 are key for high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Alkali additives modify MoOx domain structure, influencing electronic and catalytic properties, enhancing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, pivotal for alkene production, encounters the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. While bulk metal oxides like V2O5 offer low yields, supported systems, including MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, exhibit higher activity and selectivity. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, correlates with the distance between sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2, efficiently converts ethane to ethene with high activity and selectivity. For propane to propylene conversion, niobium oxide's selectivity is enhanced by adding V, Cr, and Mo, improving activity without compromising selectivity. In VNbO catalysts, niobium promotes selectivity by making vanadium sites harder to reduce, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Increasing temperature enhances C2 selectivity and methane conversion, while lower surface areas limit CO and CO2 formation, favoring high C2 selectivities. The Li/MgO system is a novel catalyst without variable oxidation state metals, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process influenced by various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites play a critical role, with isolated metallic ion sites insufficient for the reaction's complexity. The presence of distinct active sites, one for substrate oxidation and another for dioxygen reduction, is crucial. Oxygen species transfer and electron transfer are facilitated by the material's structure. The nature of metal-oxygen bonds affects the reaction, with polarized bonds enabling electrophilic or nucleophilic properties. Site isolation enhances selectivity by stabilizing specific active sites. The size and electronic properties of active sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. Supported systems, like MoO3/SiO2 and V2O5/anatase, exhibit structure sensitivity, with monomeric species favoring acidic features and polymeric species showing redox properties. The role of the support material, such as silica or alumina, influences catalytic behavior through its isoelectric point, affecting the adsorption of anions and thus the size of active sites. These factors collectively optimize the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as studies on MoMgO catalysts demonstrate. Homolytic C-H bond breaking produces propyl radicals, with high temperatures favoring alkyl desorption and low temperatures/reducible catalysts promoting surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts, with varying Cu/Th ratios, significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria enhances catalytic activity, with selectivity for ethylene and propene peaking at specific ratios before declining. Higher copper content boosts ethane conversion, potentially due to CuO crystallites that may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity is attributed to Cu 2+ ions on the surface. Propene selectivity is linked to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites, highlighting the importance of site isolation for selectivity optimization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO catalysts with chloride ions achieve 75% C2H6 conversion and 77% C2H4 selectivity, highlighting site isolation's role in selectivity. The mechanism involves C-H bond activation forming alkyl radicals, with C2H5 radicals identified. Ethane's weaker C-H bond and distinct radical pathways result in higher C2H4 yields from OXD than from methane oxidative coupling. Challenges include secondary reactions limiting C2H4 and C2H6 yields, necessitating high selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal catalysts, with MO bond strength affecting reactivity and efficiency. Site isolation enhances selectivity by curtailing secondary reactions, leading to fewer undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts produce propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The mechanism involves irreversible CH bond activation and reversible OH recombination, with two lattice oxygens activating CH bonds in propane, leading to propene desorption and water formation. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 chemisorption, consistent with the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models facilitate C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the mechanism's sensitivity to chromium site structure impacting process efficiency. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, enhancing overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 molybdates are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with Mo content influencing catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer optimization potential and high selectivity, particularly with Cr for improved conversions. This system is a viable alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile, addressing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion in oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface radicals impact pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, including site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation restricts reactive sites for intermediates, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites is a key mechanism. This process, characterized by a high activation energy, involves the unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex, necessitating β-hydrogen transfer for the catalytic cycle. Comparing Cr(III)silica surface sites with varying oxygen bridges reveals differences in reactivity. Site isolation, though not explicitly discussed, is crucial for addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts, notably in propane ODH, are superior due to their high surface areas and homogeneity, which enhance performance. Site isolation on supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO is pivotal for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly affecting selectivity. Well-defined iron sites on these supports highlight the role of site isolation in improving reactivity and selectivity for hydrocarbon oxidation, optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation as an alternative process, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It examines unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and basicity that impact catalytic efficiency. The text discusses active and selective sites, detailing kinetic studies and mechanisms, summarizing conclusions and future trends in the field.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process with numerous reaction pathways, presenting a significant challenge in heterogeneous catalysis (Quote [1]). Efficient catalysts, such as VPO or VSbO-based systems, are crucial for overcoming activation barriers and achieving high selectivity and conversion (Quote [2]). The complexity arises from the simultaneous occurrence of multiple reaction steps on the adsorbed phase without desorption (Quote [3]). Various mechanisms have been proposed for the activation of light alkanes, but no single mechanism stands out (Quote [4]). The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts (Quote [5]). The process begins with oxidative dehydrogenation, and different mechanisms involving specific sites have been suggested (Quote [6]). Site isolation stabilizes intermediates, aiding selectivity (Quote [20]). The efficiency of ODH is influenced by catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms, with site isolation playing a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions, is measured by observing alkenes and COx formation rates. MoOx and VOx catalysts proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, with reaction rates limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond. Larger oxide domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states and accepting electrons. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting the reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, allow for the design of materials with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps is sensitive to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity, notably V5+, Mo6+, and W6+, significantly impacts pathways, with activation energies and reaction rates varying from VOx/ZrO2 to WOx/ZrO2. Lewis acidity affects adsorption enthalpies, influencing ODH and combustion rates. Selective ODH is complicated by shared sites for CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion. Intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility are key for selective ODH, as observed on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts, with VOx/ZrO2 showing the highest activity due to its reducibility and basicity of lattice oxygen, aligning with the trend in ODH rates and selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often necessitating N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) as an effective catalyst for hydrogen abstraction from methane to form ·CH3 radicals in the presence of O2. This catalyst enables the coupling of two ·CH3 radicals, yielding C2 compounds like ethylene in high yields under conventional conditions, marking a significant advancement in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically valuable due to their vast reserves. Their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen or nitrogen-containing molecules is crucial for chemical product synthesis. Activating alkanes, particularly lower alkanes, is challenging due to their high stability, which has historically limited their industrial use. Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative, yet catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions and its impact on catalytic performance are critical areas of research. The activation of paraffins is more challenging than other hydrocarbons, leading to potential selectivity issues as products may be readily oxidized under activation conditions. The high stability of alkanes is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage being the initial step in their transformation. Catalysts must have an affinity for alkanes to activate the CH bond, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface hydrocarbon species stability. Acid-base and redox properties of supports affect ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies redox properties and increases acidity, enhancing ethylene selectivity. Doping with Te promotes the V5 oxidation state, while Pd results in 95% V4, accounting for different performances. The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, affecting selectivity and conversion through mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is alkane-dependent, impacting reactivity and selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters are critical for ODH performance. Site isolation aids selectivity. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, are essential. Vanadium-based catalysts exhibit varying behaviors due to different vanadium species. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, key for high ethene yield. The environment of the active center influences the ODH path. Catalyst selection must consider alkane type and reaction conditions. Acid-base character impacts olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous or molecular sieve surfaces shows high mobility and reactivity toward alcohols, ethylene, CO, and water, with redox behavior dependent on support type and composition. Softer supports facilitate easier reduction of Cr ions, while the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Under reducing conditions, Cr exhibits various oxidation states influenced by support characteristics. Higher Cr loadings and lower surface areas promote polychromate formation. Post-calcination, Cr oxides bind to the surface via hydroxyl group reactions, with molecular structure influenced by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by metal oxide supports' acid-base character, affecting vanadium dispersion and species nature. Surface vanadium oxide species' reducibility and structure, alongside catalysts' acid-base properties, are critical for C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active, selective sites. Coordination number, aggregation state, and acid/base sites' presence impact catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support's nature and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Despite studies, active and selective sites' nature remains under discussion. Bulk and supported vanadia catalysts' properties are linked to V-species' coordination and environment, affecting redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, revealing support's influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites' nature for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes is influenced by catalyst properties, including metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. Supported metal oxides, notably vanadium and molybdenum, show enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, affected by the support and additives. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate vanadium loadings, while COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species. The reduction of vanadium during ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction, and both isolated and polymerized vanadium species are active. The presence of acid and redox sites in VCoAPO-18 is crucial for high selectivity to ethylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with activity influenced by Mo surface density. Alkali additives affect the structure of MoOx domains, influencing their electronic and catalytic properties. The activation of ethane CH bonds forms alkoxides that decompose to ethylene or are oxidized to oxygenates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, necessitating low conversions for high selectivity. Supported catalyst systems, like MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO, offer higher activity and selectivity compared to bulk metal oxides. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes via β-H abstraction. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is also proposed. Selectivity for dehydrogenation over oxygenated products correlates with site distance, highlighting the role of site isolation in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, notably ethane to ethene and propane to propylene, is a promising process for alkene production. The Mo16V4Nb2 catalyst outperforms other mixed-metal oxides in activity and selectivity for ethane conversion. Niobium oxide exhibits high selectivity in propane ODH, with conversion rates boosted by the addition of V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium's resistance to reduction enhances vanadium sites' selectivity, preventing low selectivity due to facile reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide catalyzes methane's partial oxidation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, involving methyl radical formation through hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers. Selectivity and conversion rates increase with temperature, and lower surface areas favor high C2 selectivities by limiting CO and CO2 formation. The Li/MgO system is a novel oxidation catalyst without variable oxidation state metal ions, addressing selectivity issues in ODH of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. Challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are addressed through understanding reaction mechanisms such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. Active sites, particularly isolated ones, enhance selectivity by stabilizing specific reactions over undesired side reactions. The size and properties of these sites significantly impact selectivity and conversion rates. For instance, monomeric species like MoO42- exhibit acidic features favoring total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species show better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions, influenced by the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and oxide lattice mobility, is essential for understanding their functioning. Supported oxide catalysts, like MoO3 and V2O5 on SiO2, Al2O3, or TiO2, demonstrate the importance of active site size and electronic properties in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene, as demonstrated for MoMgO catalysts, benefits from BrSnsted acid sites. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking producing a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, whereas low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by the correlation between propylene formation and such sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, varying Cu/Th ratios in CuTh oxide catalysts boost catalytic activity and selectivity in ethylene and propene, peaking at specific ratios. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may hinder ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, catalytic activity is due to Cu 2+ ions on the surface, and selectivity in propene is attributed to Cu 2+ ions in substitutional sites. Site isolation optimizes the process by controlling active sites, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, Li/MgO with chloride ions catalyze C-H bond activation, forming alkyl radicals like C2H5, which react preferentially with O2, boosting C2H4 yields. Site isolation optimizes selectivity and efficiency by minimizing secondary reactions, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are critical, with MO bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting reactivity. Optimizing these properties, particularly intermediate MO bond strength, enhances selective oxidation. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, improving selectivity by avoiding undesired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "ODH of propane over ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts primarily yields propene, with CO and CO2 as byproducts. The mechanism follows a Mars-van Krevelen redox process, involving lattice oxygens for CH bond activation, leading to propene desorption. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize through O2 dissociative chemisorption, highlighting the catalyst's role in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "Ethane dehydrogenation over Cr(III)silica follows a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with efficiency sensitive to chromium site structure. Site isolation is key for selectivity, highlighting catalyst structure's importance in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting activity. Binary NiCo molybdates, enhanced by redox elements like V, Fe, Ce, and Cr, offer a stable system for optimization. Notably, Cr maintains high selectivity at improved conversions, making NiCo molybdates a competitive alternative to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation and direct propane conversion to acrylic acid or acrylonitrile in a single reactor, addressing selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, surface-generated gas-phase radicals significantly influence reaction pathways and selectivity. Catalyst design, particularly supported systems and site isolation, controls radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions. Site isolation prevents undesired reactions by managing radical interactions and active site distribution, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica surface sites, leading to an unstable ethylhydridochromium(V) complex. The high activation energy suggests this pathway is unlikely for dehydrogenation. Site isolation on Cr(III)silica surfaces, with varying numbers of oxygen bridges, is crucial for addressing selectivity issues, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with high surface areas and homogeneity enhancing performance. Site isolation, achieved through techniques like TMP, controls catalytic site structures, improving selectivity. This strategy introduces isolated catalytic centers onto oxide supports like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, crucial for selective oxidation by well-defined iron sites, optimizing the process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review examines n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting catalytic systems, kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms. It discusses unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, species nature, conductivity, and surface basicity. The nature of active and selective sites, along with kinetic studies and mechanisms, is analyzed, emphasizing hydrocarbon activation and catalytic efficiency. The review provides a comprehensive analysis of the process, summarizing future trends.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with efficient catalysts like VPO or VSbO-based systems overcoming the activation step, as highlighted in Quote 2. Achieving high selectivity and conversion is hindered by the multitude of simultaneous reaction pathways, as emphasized in Quote 3. Various activation mechanisms have been proposed, but no single mechanism is universally applicable. The goal, as stated in Quote 5, is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts. The first step involves oxidative dehydrogenation, with different mechanisms proposed for light alkane activation. Site isolation stabilizes active species intermediates, addressing selectivity issues. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Understanding these factors collectively is crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx through reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies, enhance electron density acceptance and stabilize transition states, increasing catalytic activity. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, correlating with increased reactivity of MoOx surfaces. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, enable materials design with controlled electronic properties and catalytic functions, independent of chemical composition. Lower LMCT absorption edge energies and higher electron affinity lead to exponential increases in propane ODH turnover rates, highlighting the sensitivity of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps to the electron-accepting ability of oxide domains during reduction events.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, VOx, MoOx, and WOx on ZrO2 exhibit rising activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with declining reaction rates. The Lewis acidity of cations, increasing from V5+ to W6+, amplifies the observed difference in activation energies between propane ODH and propene combustion. Adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane, influenced by cation Lewis acidity, impact relative ODH and combustion rates. CH bond activation in ODH and alkene combustion requires similar sites, affecting selective strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is attributed to its weaker allylic CH bond. Catalyst activities (VOx/ZrO2 > MoOx/ZrO2 > WOx/ZrO2) are governed by metal reducibility and lattice oxygen basicity. Selective ODH necessitates intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene faces low yields, often requiring N2O as an oxidant. Recent studies highlight lithium-doped magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) with O2, effectively abstracting H from CH4 to form ·CH3 radicals, facilitating C2H6 and C2H4 production through radical coupling, achieving high C2 compound yields under conventional conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkane conversion, despite its economic importance, faces challenges due to their inherent stability. Selective paraffin conversion to various products is crucial for chemical goods production. Direct ethane conversion to C2-oxygenates is an attractive alternative, yet catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions significantly impacts performance, underscoring the need for in situ characterization. The activation of paraffins is more challenging than for other hydrocarbons, limiting selectivity. Alkanes' stability is attributed to their electronic structure, with CH bond cleavage as the initial activation step. Catalyst affinity with alkanes is essential for activation, and selectivity is influenced by hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, catalyst reactivity, and surface species stability. Reducible oxides are necessary for molecular oxygen activation, with dopants providing activation sites for non-reducible oxides. Using N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances C2-oxygenate selectivity, linked to the oxide's electron transfer capacity. Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, whereas nucleophilic species promote selectivity. Water in the feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygenates, significantly affecting activity. Acidic supports increase activity, and higher reducibility boosts TOF, though not correlating with oxidation state. Acid-base and redox properties impact ethane conversion, with site isolation improving selectivity. Catalyst modifications, such as adding niobia or Te/Pd, alter redox properties and increase ethylene selectivity. Catalyst affinity for H2 influences ethylene selectivity. Surface acid/base features depend on cation charge and radius, with more oxidized cations increasing oxide acidity. Discrepancies in activity and reducibility may stem from bulk vs. surface reduction and the nature of the reducing molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion determined by mechanisms like C-H bond activation. Catalyst choice is alkane-dependent, affecting reactivity and selectivity. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and contact time, also influence selectivity and activity. Site isolation aids in addressing selectivity issues. Vanadium-based catalysts, with varying vanadium species, show different behaviors, influenced by the support's nature and basicity of additives. The coordination number of the active center and its environment affect the ODH path. Understanding these factors is essential for optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows similar surface chemistry, with high reactivity and mobility towards molecules like alcohols, ethylene, carbon monoxide, and water. The redox behavior of Cr ions is support-dependent, being more easily reduced on softer supports, where the oxide support acts as a ligand controlling redox properties. Post-calcination, chromium oxides anchor onto the surface through reactions with hydroxyl groups, influenced by the support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character influences vanadium dispersion and species nature, impacting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective for C2-C4 alkanes. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination, aggregation, and acid/base sites are critical for catalytic behavior. Supported vanadium oxides offer advantages but their behavior is modified by the support and vanadium loading. Mixing or supporting vanadium oxide enhances selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides, and V-containing molecular sieves, show high selectivity to olefins. The nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion, and the reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, catalyst properties, including the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and electronic properties, significantly influence performance (1). Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with optimal VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with the development of a monolayer structure. COx formation in ethane ODH is attributed to adsorbed oxygen species (3), while the reduction of vanadium during steady-state ODH is lower than stoichiometric reduction (2). The support significantly impacts vanadium oxide reactivity (4), with additives modifying acid-base and redox properties (6). Site isolation is crucial for efficient catalyst design (7), as in VCoAPO-18, where the presence of both acid and redox sites is key for high selectivity to ethylene (8). Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are generally less active than vanadia-based catalysts (9).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes faces the challenge of faster alkene oxidation, requiring low conversions for high selectivity. Bulk metal oxides like V2O5 have low yields, whereas supported systems offer higher activity and selectivity. MOP, VMgOx, VSiZrOx, and CrSiMO exhibit high selectivities. CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, leading to Malkyl intermediates that decompose to 1-alkenes. An alternative 2H-abstraction mechanism is proposed. Site isolation, crucial for selectivity, correlates with the distance between sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_1"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, using Mo16V4Nb2 for ethane and niobium oxide for propane, efficiently produces alkenes. Niobium oxide, despite low conversion, shows high selectivity for propane to propylene, improved by adding V, Cr, or Mo. In VNbO catalysts, niobium neighbors enhance vanadium site selectivity, as niobium's resistance to reduction prevents low selectivity, addressing selectivity issues in ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr9800208"},
{"DOC": "Lithium-promoted magnesium oxide (Li/MgO) catalyzes methane's oxidative dehydrogenation to ethane and ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. The mechanism involves methyl radical formation via hydrogen abstraction by [Li'O-] centers, followed by ethane coupling and oxidation to ethylene. Selectivity and conversion improve with temperature, peaking at around 700°C. Lower surface areas enhance C2 selectivities by minimizing CO and CO2 formation. This novel Li/MgO system demonstrates high efficiency in alkane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja00304a008"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) employs catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, facing challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, impact process efficiency. Site isolation stabilizes specific active sites, enhancing selectivity. Active site size and properties significantly influence selectivity and conversion rates. Supported oxide catalysts, such as MoO3 and V2O5, exhibit different catalytic properties based on the support and the size of the active sites. Monomeric species like MoO42- or VO43- show acidic features leading to total oxidation, while low-size polymeric species offer better selectivity for partial oxidation reactions. The dynamic nature of oxidation catalysts under reaction conditions is essential for understanding their functioning. For instance, the size of polyvanadate species affects both activity and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, with higher vanadium loading increasing activity while maintaining selectivity. This highlights the importance of active site size in oxidation catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00103-4"},
{"DOC": "Selective propane oxidation to propylene is enhanced by BrSnsted acid sites, as evidenced by MoMgO catalysts. Reaction pathways are sensitive to acid-base properties, with homolytic C-H bond breaking yielding a propyl radical. High temperatures favor alkyl desorption, while low temperatures and reducible catalysts promote surface reactions. A concerted mechanism, involving simultaneous bond breaking and formation, is proposed. Propene production from alkoxy species decomposition requires BrSnsted acid sites, as shown by the correlation between propylene formation and these sites in MoMgO catalysts. These factors collectively impact the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with site isolation aiding selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(96)00138-x"},
{"DOC": "CuTh oxide catalysts with varying Cu/Th ratios significantly influence the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Increased copper concentration in thoria boosts catalytic activity, affecting ethylene and propene selectivity, which peaks at specific ratios. Higher copper content enhances ethane conversion but may inhibit ethylene formation. Selectivity in ethylene correlates with copper(II) sites, while for propane, Cu 2+ ions on the surface drive activity, and substitutional Cu 2+ ions enhance propene selectivity. Site isolation optimizes selectivity by managing active site distribution, addressing the challenges in achieving high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf02070119"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, top catalysts achieve 20% methane conversion with 80% C2 selectivity, utilizing C-H bond activation and radical chemistry. Ethane ODH yields higher C2H4 than methane coupling due to distinct radical pathways. A Li/MgO catalyst with chloride ions reached 77% C2H4 selectivity at 75% C2H6 conversion, demonstrating site isolation's role in enhancing selectivity and preventing secondary reactions, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.199509701"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, high-valence d0 transition metal oxides are pivotal, with OH bond strength and the energy gap between valence and conductive bands affecting catalyst efficiency. Optimizing MO bond strength enhances process efficiency. Site isolation prevents secondary reactions, crucial for selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp709651n"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ZrO2-supported MoOx catalysts employ a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism, where irreversible CH bond activation by lattice oxygens yields propene. Reduced Mo centers reoxidize via O2 chemisorption, and reversible OH recombination forms water. This mechanism optimizes selectivity and conversion, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp002100x"},
{"DOC": "In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, Cr(III)silica models follow a mechanism involving C-H activation, H transfer, and site regeneration, with the process sensitive to the local structure of chromium sites. Site isolation is pivotal for selectivity, enhancing process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.842"},
{"DOC": "NiMoO4 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4 are effective for propane oxydehydrogenation to propylene, with molybdenum content impacting catalytic activity. Binary NiCo molybdates offer a stable system for optimization, serving as viable alternatives to V-based catalysts for light paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1568"},
{"DOC": "In ODH, surface-generated radicals impact reaction pathways and selectivity. Supported catalyst systems and site isolation control radical formation, enhancing selectivity by limiting side reactions and affecting active site distribution, crucial for optimizing ODH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0360-0564(08)60093-0"},
{"DOC": "ODH analysis reveals CH activation by oxidative addition over Cr(III)silica as a mechanism for dehydrogenation, though high activation energy (220 kJ mol-1) limits its feasibility. Site isolation in catalysts enhances efficiency and selectivity, crucial for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/poc.990"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, vanadium-based catalysts outperform others due to their high surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, crucial for controlling catalytic site structures, significantly enhances selectivity. The TMP method optimizes propane ODH catalysts by improving surface areas and homogeneities. Site isolation, by creating isolated catalytic centers on oxide supports, generates site-isolated catalysts, vital for bimetallic oxides and catalyst support interfaces. Support materials like Al2O3, ZrO2, and MgO, with site isolation, play a key role in the reactivities of well-defined iron sites for selective hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0021-9517(02)00106-9"},
{"DOC": "The review focuses on n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation, exploring unsupported and supported catalysts, promoters, and factors like composition, reducibility, oxygen reactivity, and surface basicity that influence catalytic efficiency. It delves into the nature of active and selective sites, detailed kinetic studies, and reaction mechanisms, including conclusions and future trends. This analysis addresses the interplay between catalysts, challenges, and mechanisms in optimizing the ODH process.", "Doi": "10.1081/cr-120001461"},
{"DOC": "The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process in heterogeneous catalysis, with challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion due to multiple reaction pathways. Efficient catalysts, such as VPO and VSbO-based systems, are critical for alkane activation, overcoming the initial activation step. Various mechanisms have been proposed, including C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, but no single mechanism stands out. The goal is to identify a common activation site for efficient catalysts, where site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by stabilizing active species intermediates. The efficiency of the ODH process is influenced by the interplay between catalysts, selectivity challenges, and proposed mechanisms. Electrical conductivity measurements can provide insights into the existence of oxidizing species and the nature of the oxidic phase involved in catalytic reactions. The dynamic nature of catalytic oxide surfaces suggests that the concept of localized active sites should be considered with caution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0073-y"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, involving primary and secondary reactions measured by alkenes and COx formation rates, is catalyzed by MoOx and VOx via reduction-oxidation cycles. Reaction rates are limited by the activation of the weakest CH bond on oxide domains. Larger domains, with lower LUMO energies and higher electron affinity, enhance catalytic activity by stabilizing transition states in CH bond activation. Propane ODH rates increase with higher surface density and lower edge energy, reflecting enhanced electron density acceptance. Quantum confinement effects, due to domain size and electronic isolation, can tailor materials' electronic properties and catalytic functions beyond chemical composition, impacting the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps.", "Doi": "10.1039/b805251d"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, cation identity impacts pathways, with VOx/ZrO2, MoOx/ZrO2, and WOx/ZrO2 showing increasing activation energies for propane dehydrogenation and propene combustion, correlating with decreasing reaction rates. Lewis acidity, increasing from V5+ to W6+, enhances the observed difference in activation energies. Selective ODH requires intermediate reducibility, weak Lewis acid centers, and high oxygen mobility, as on VOx-, MoOx-, and WOx-based catalysts. CH bond activation in ODH reactions requires the same sites as those involved in alkene combustion, limiting selective poisoning strategies. Propene's greater reactivity is due to its allylic CH bond strength. These factors collectively influence process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp9933875"},
{"DOC": "Methane's partial oxidation to methanol, ethylene, and benzene has low yields, with N2O favored over O2. Recent studies highlight Li/MgO's high activity for CH4 hydrogen abstraction, forming ·CH3 radicals, suggesting C2H6 and C2H4 production via radical coupling. Achieved high C2 compound yields from CH4 under conventional catalytic conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/314721b0"},
{"DOC": "Alkanes, despite their low reactivity, are economically significant due to their vast reserves, making their selective conversion to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, and oxygen/nitrogen-containing molecules crucial for chemical synthesis (Quote 1). The challenge lies in their high stability, which has historically hindered their industrial use (Quote 3). Ethane's direct conversion to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons is an attractive alternative (Quote 4). Catalyst structure transformation under reaction conditions is pivotal, necessitating the development of in situ characterization methods (Quote 5). The activation of paraffins is challenging due to their stability, limiting selectivity (Quote 6). The CH bond's high stability, particularly in primary carbons, requires a strong affinity between the alkane and the catalyst surface for activation (Quote 7). Catalyst reactivity, surface intermediates' reaction speed, and the presence of reducible oxides for molecular oxygen activation are critical (Quote 11). The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen enhances selectivity for C2-oxygenates (Quote 35). Surface electrophilic oxygen species lead to non-selective oxidation, while nucleophilic oxygen species promote selectivity (Quote 38). Water in the reaction feed decreases conversion but increases selectivity to oxygen-containing species (Quote 39). Acidic supports and reducibility improve activity, with site isolation enhancing selectivity (Quote 50). Doping with Te or Pd modifies redox properties, affecting the oxidation state of vanadium, which influences ethylene selectivity (Quote 53). The high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 contributes to high ethylene selectivity (Quote 54).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(99)00053-x"},
{"DOC": "ODH of alkanes, a complex process, is influenced by catalysts like bulk metal oxides and supported systems, with selectivity and conversion dependent on alkane type. Reaction mechanisms, including C-H bond activation and M-alkyl intermediates, are pivotal. Acid-base properties, oxygen type, and promoters impact ODH performance. Determining molecular mechanisms is challenging, requiring advanced techniques. Catalyst selection is linked to alkane type and reaction conditions. Chlorine ions generate ethyl radicals, critical for high ethene yield, while the acid-base character of catalysts affects olefin formation and desorption rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614940600631413"},
{"DOC": "Supported Cr on amorphous surfaces or molecular sieves shows similar high reactivity toward various molecules, facilitated by the oxide support acting as a ligand that controls redox properties. Redox behavior is support-dependent, with Cr ions more easily reduced on softer supports. Chromium oxides anchor onto the surface post-calcination, reacting with hydroxyl groups, and their structure is determined by support composition, Cr loading, and treatment conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr940044"},
{"DOC": "In ODH of alkanes, metal oxide supports' acid-base character crucially impacts vanadium dispersion and species, affecting catalytic properties. Tetrahedral VS+-species are active and selective in C2-C4 alkanes' ODH. Surface vanadium oxide species' coordination and aggregation, alongside acid/base sites, are pivotal for catalytic behavior. Supported metal oxides offer enhanced mechanical strength, thermal stability, and surface area. The nature of the support and vanadium loading modifies catalytic behavior, enhancing bulk V2O5's selectivity in short chain alkanes' ODH, increasing olefin formation. Vanadium-magnesium and V-Mo-Nb-O mixed oxides show high olefin selectivity in n-butane, propane, and ethane's ODH. V-containing molecular sieves exhibit high selectivity for oxydehydrogenation products in ethane and propane oxidation. Despite various catalytic systems, the nature of active and selective sites remains under discussion. The coordination and environment of V-species in bulk and supported vanadia catalysts affect redox properties. Monolayer systems optimize active site dispersion and reveal support influence. The vanadium species' nature and catalytic behavior depend on the metal oxide support. The reaction mechanism and selective sites for short chain alkanes' ODH are still under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00029-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    