<quotes>

[1] "Hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes is catalysed by [(SiO)2TaH] (1) at 160C and leads to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane."
[2] "The mechanism of ring contraction probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carboncarbon bond-cleavage step."
[3] "This latter complex is inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes, and therefore the formation of cyclopentane in the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is probably responsible for the de-activation of the catalyst by formation of cyclopentadienyl complexes."
[4] "This, along with the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products, speaks for a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and 1."
[5] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."
[6] "The formation of smaller cyclic products can readily be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes as delineated in Scheme 4 (678, 79 and 810)."
[7] "The high selectivity for cyclohexane derivatives via these rather disfavoured pathways probably argues for an alternative mechanism."
[8] "The lack of reactivity of cyclopentane towards 1 in the presence of H2 is still puzzling, and its reactivity towards 1 has been investigated in more details in the hope of understanding this difference in reactivity compared to higher cycloalkanes."
[9] "The formation of cyclopentandienyl surface complexes from cyclopentyl derivatives leads to the presence of less electrophilic surface complexes (12- versus 8-electron complexes if oxygen atoms are considered to be pure σ-donor ligands)."
[10] "Since cycloalkanes generate cyclopentane during their hydrogenolysis, it is therefore possible that the corresponding cyclopentyl derivatives formed will be transformed into cyclopentadienyl surface complexes, which are inactive."
[11] "The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis was further studied: under the reaction conditions cyclopentane reacts with 1 to give the corresponding cyclopentyl derivative [(SiO)2TaC5H9] (13), which evolves towards cyclopentadienyl derivative [(SiO)2Ta(C5H5)] (14) according to both solid-state NMR and EXAFS spectroscopies."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a complex mechanism that includes both two-site and one-site schemes. The process of linear and cyclic alkane transformations involves the formation of key intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes. The ring contraction mechanism probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step. The formation of cyclopentane during the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is responsible for the deactivation of the catalyst by forming cyclopentadienyl complexes, which are inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes. The mechanism for the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes is different from that of Group 4 metal hydrides, with metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates being more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. The high selectivity for cyclohexane derivatives via disfavoured pathways suggests an alternative mechanism. The lack of reactivity of cyclopentane towards the catalyst in the presence of hydrogen is puzzling, and its reactivity towards the catalyst has been investigated in more detail. The formation of cyclopentadienyl surface complexes from cyclopentyl derivatives leads to less electrophilic surface complexes, which are inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes. Since cycloalkanes generate cyclopentane during their hydrogenolysis, the corresponding cyclopentyl derivatives formed will be transformed into cyclopentadienyl surface complexes, which are inactive. The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis was further studied, and under the reaction conditions, cyclopentane reacts with the catalyst to give the corresponding cyclopentyl derivative, which evolves towards the cyclopentadienyl derivative according to both solid-state NMR and EXAFS spectroscopies.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅胶支持的钽氢化物催化下的环烷烃氢解涉及复杂的机制，包括双位点和单位点方案。线性和环烷烃的转化过程涉及关键中间体的形成，如烯烃和金属环丁烷。环收缩机制可能涉及碳-碳键断裂的关键步骤为碳烯脱插。在各种环烷烃的氢解过程中形成环戊烷，导致催化剂失活，形成环戊二烯基复合物，这些复合物在烷烃的氢解中是不活跃的。环烷烃氢解的机制与第4族金属氢化物不同，金属环丁烷和碳烯中间体比σ-键互换或直接氧化加成更可能。通过不利途径对环己烷衍生物的高度选择性表明存在替代机制。环戊烷在氢存在下对催化剂缺乏反应性仍然令人困惑，其对催化剂的反应性已被更详细地研究。从环戊基衍生物形成环戊二烯基表面复合物，导致表面复合物的电负性降低，这些复合物在烷烃的氢解中是不活跃的。由于环烷烃在氢解过程中产生环戊烷，因此形成的环戊基衍生物将转化为环戊二烯基表面复合物，这些复合物是不活跃的。环戊烷对氢解的不情愿被进一步研究，在反应条件下，环戊烷与催化剂反应，生成相应的环戊基衍生物，根据固体核磁共振和扩展X射线吸收精细结构光谱学，该衍生物将向环戊二烯基衍生物演变。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
