<quotes>

[1] "Hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes is catalysed by [(SiO)2TaH] (1) at 160C and leads to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane."
[2] "The mechanism of ring contraction probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carboncarbon bond-cleavage step."
[3] "This latter complex is inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes, and therefore the formation of cyclopentane in the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is probably responsible for the de-activation of the catalyst by formation of cyclopentadienyl complexes."
[4] "The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis was further studied: under the reaction conditions cyclopentane reacts with 1 to give the corresponding cyclopentyl derivative [(SiO)2TaC5H9] (13), which evolves towards cyclopentadienyl derivative [(SiO)2Ta(C5H5)] (14) according to both solid-state NMR and EXAFS spectroscopies."
[5] "In the case of 1, a similar trend in ring size dependence was also observed (vide supra), yet cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, which is not observed with Group 4 metal hydrides."
[6] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."
[7] "The formation of smaller cyclic products can readily be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes as delineated in Scheme 4 (678, 79 and 810)."
[8] "The formation of cyclopentandienyl surface complexes from cyclopentyl derivatives leads to the presence of less electrophilic surface complexes (12- versus 8-electron complexes if oxygen atoms are considered to be pure σ-donor ligands)."
[9] "Since cycloalkanes generate cyclopentane during their hydrogenolysis, it is therefore possible that the corresponding cyclopentyl derivatives formed will be transformed into cyclopentadienyl surface complexes, which are inactive."
[10] "The hydrogenolysis of cycloalkanes on 1 provides an aged catalyst with similar spectroscopic features to that of the model cyclopentadienyl surface complex 14, we propose that the deactivation observed in the hydrogenolysis of all cycloalkanes is most consistent with the formation of cyclopentadienyl derivatives as inactive species under hydrogenolysis conditions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes at 160C, leading to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane. The mechanism of ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step. The formation of cyclopentane during the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is probably responsible for the deactivation of the catalyst by forming cyclopentadienyl complexes. Cyclopentane, which is reluctant to undergo hydrogenolysis, reacts with the catalyst to form a cyclopentyl derivative that evolves into a cyclopentadienyl derivative, which is inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes. The trend in ring size dependence is similar to that observed with Group 4 metal hydrides, but cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, which is not observed with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, as they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings. The formation of smaller cyclic products can be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. The formation of cyclopentadienyl surface complexes from cyclopentyl derivatives leads to less electrophilic surface complexes. Since cycloalkanes generate cyclopentane during their hydrogenolysis, the corresponding cyclopentyl derivatives formed will be transformed into cyclopentadienyl surface complexes, which are inactive. The deactivation observed in the hydrogenolysis of all cycloalkanes is most consistent with the formation of cyclopentadienyl derivatives as inactive species under hydrogenolysis conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅胶支持的钽氢化物在160C下催化环烷烃的氢解，产生较低的烷烃和包括环戊烷在内的环烷烃。环收缩机制可能涉及碳-碳键断裂的关键步骤为碳烯脱插。在各种环烷烃的氢解过程中形成环戊烷，可能是催化剂失活的原因，形成环戊二烯基复合物。环戊烷在氢解中不情愿，与催化剂反应形成环戊基衍生物，然后演变成环戊二烯基衍生物，该衍生物在烷烃的氢解中不活跃。环大小依赖性的趋势与IV族金属氢化物观察到的相似，但环己烷发生氢解，而IV族金属氢化物中未观察到。金属环丁烷和碳烯中间体比σ-键互换或直接氧化加成更可能，因为它们都涉及具有七元环的过渡态。较小的环状产物的形成可以通过金属环丁烷的重排和氢解的组合来解释。从环戊基衍生物形成环戊二烯基表面复合物，导致存在较少亲电性的表面复合物。由于环烷烃在氢解过程中产生环戊烷，因此形成的环戊基衍生物将转化为环戊二烯基表面复合物，该复合物不活跃。在所有环烷烃的氢解中观察到的失活与环戊二烯衍生物作为氢解条件下不活跃物种的形成最一致。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
