<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes is catalysed by [(SiO)2TaH] (1) at 160C and leads to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane."
          [2] "The mechanism of ring contraction probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carboncarbon bond-cleavage step."
          [3] "The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis was further studied: under the reaction conditions cyclopentane reacts with 1 to give the corresponding cyclopentyl derivative [(SiO)2TaC5H9] (13), which evolves towards cyclopentadienyl derivative [(SiO)2Ta(C5H5)] (14) according to both solid-state NMR and EXAFS spectroscopies."
          [4] "This latter complex is inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes, and therefore the formation of cyclopentane in the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is probably responsible for the de-activation of the catalyst by formation of cyclopentadienyl complexes."
          [5] "In the case of 1, a similar trend in ring size dependence was also observed (vide supra), yet cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, which is not observed with Group 4 metal hydrides."
          [6] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."
          [7] "The formation of smaller cyclic products can readily be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes as delineated in Scheme 4 (678, 79 and 810)."
          [8] "Secondly, the intermediate 4 could also directly undergo intramolecular activation of a carboncarbon bond in the α or in the β position (Scheme 4, Pathways 4 and 5)."
          [9] "Pathway 5 corresponds to an α-alkyl transfer,14, 15 which gives an intermediate 11 that can readily transform into either intermediate 3 upon hydrogen addition or 12 via successive β-H and α-H transfer steps."
          [10] "While the former pathway (via 3) could potentially account for the two-carbon ring-contraction product (cyclopentane) or smaller linear products (pentane) via a β-alkyl transfer (Scheme 4: 313),22 it cannot readily explain the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products."
          [11] "On the other hand, the conversion of 11 to 6 and/or 12 by simple hydrogen-transfer processes does allow the formation of all the products to be explained."
          [12] "Carboncarbon activation in the β position in intermediate 4 (Pathway 4) can be regarded as a β-alkyl transfer,23 depending on whether one considers that the oxidation state of the metal centre has changed or not (metallacyclopropane versus π-olefin complex)."
          [13] "This pathway gives ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which can readily undergo insertion to give 9, either directly or via 6, and hence leads to the formation of smaller ring systems (cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane)."
          [14] "Note that most intermediates (5, 11 and 12) can readily fall into one or another carboncarbon activation manifold, since α- and β-H transfer processes are very common for Group 5 transition metals.19"
          [15] "In the case of the hydrogenolysis of Group 4 metal hydrides, the ring contraction was best explained by a β-alkyl transfer mechanismlike for acyclic alkanesand was very dependent on the alkane ring size (cycloheptane>cyclohexane (no reaction)).9b"
          [16] "This, along with the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products, speaks for a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and 1."
          [17] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides leads to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane. The mechanism of ring contraction probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step. The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis is due to its reaction with the catalyst to form a cyclopentyl derivative, which evolves into a cyclopentadienyl derivative, an inactive complex in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes. This deactivation pathway is responsible for the deactivation of the catalyst. The hydrogenolysis of cycloalkanes on silica-supported tantalum hydrides shows a trend in ring size dependence, yet cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, which is not observed with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings. The formation of smaller cyclic products can be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. The intermediate 4 can undergo intramolecular activation of a carbon-carbon bond in the α or β position, leading to different intermediates. Pathway 5 corresponds to an α-alkyl transfer, which gives an intermediate 11 that can transform into intermediate 3 upon hydrogen addition or 12 via successive β-H and α-H transfer steps. The former pathway (via 3) could potentially account for the two-carbon ring-contraction product (cyclopentane) or smaller linear products (pentane) via a β-alkyl transfer, but it cannot readily explain the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products. On the other hand, the conversion of 11 to 6 and/or 12 by simple hydrogen-transfer processes does allow the formation of all the products to be explained. Carbon-carbon activation in the β position in intermediate 4 (Pathway 4) can be regarded as a β-alkyl transfer, depending on whether one considers that the oxidation state of the metal centre has changed or not (metallacyclopropane versus π-olefin complex). This pathway gives ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which can readily undergo insertion to give 9, either directly or via 6, and hence leads to the formation of smaller ring systems (cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane). Most intermediates (5, 11 and 12) can readily fall into one or another carbon-carbon activation manifold, since α- and β-H transfer processes are very common for Group 5 transition metals. In the case of the hydrogenolysis of Group 4 metal hydrides, the ring contraction was best explained by a β-alkyl transfer mechanism, which is very dependent on the alkane ring size (cycloheptane>cyclohexane (no reaction)). This, along with the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products, speaks for a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          环烷烃在硅胶支持的钽氢化物催化下的氢解反应生成较低的烷烃和环烷烃，包括环戊烷。环收缩机制可能涉及作为关键碳-碳键断裂步骤的碳烯脱插。环戊烷对氢解反应的抗拒性是由于其与催化剂反应形成环戊基衍生物，该衍生物进一步转化为环戊二烯衍生物，这是一种在烷烃氢解中不活跃的复合物。这种失活途径是催化剂失活的原因。硅胶支持的钽氢化物对环烷烃的氢解显示出环大小依赖的趋势，然而，环己烷会进行氢解，这是在第4族金属氢化物中没有观察到的。金属环丁烷和碳烯中间体比σ-键互换或直接氧化加成更有可能，因为它们都涉及具有七元环过渡态。较小的环状产物的形成可以通过金属环丁烷的重排和氢解的组合来解释。中间体4可以进行α或β位置的碳-碳键的分子内活化，产生不同的中间体。路径5对应于α-烷基转移，产生中间体11，该中间体可以通过氢添加转化为中间体3，或者通过连续的β-H和α-H转移步骤转化为12。前者路径（通过3）可能解释两碳环收缩产物（环戊烷）或较小的线性产物（戊烷）的形成，但不能轻易解释一碳环收缩产物的形成。另一方面，通过简单的氢转移过程将11转化为6和/或12确实允许所有产物的形成得到解释。中间体4（路径4）中的β位置的碳-碳活化可以被视为β-烷基转移，这取决于是否认为金属中心的氧化态发生了变化（金属环丙烷与π-烯烃复合物）。这条路径产生像12这样的ω-烯基复合物，这些复合物可以直接或通过6进行插入，从而形成较小的环系统（环己烷或甲基环戊烷）。大多数中间体（5，11和12）可以很容易地落入一个或另一个碳-碳活化流形，因为α-和β-H转移过程对于第5族过渡金属来说非常常见。在第4族金属氢化物的氢解中，环收缩最好通过β-烷基转移机制来解释，这非常依赖于烷烃环的大小（环庚烷>环己烷（无反应））。这，加上一碳环收缩产物的形成，说明了第4族金属氢化物和硅胶支持的钽氢化物之间存在机制差异。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
