<quotes>

[1] "Hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes is catalysed by [(SiO)2TaH] (1) at 160C and leads to lower alkanes and cyclic alkanes including cyclopentane."
[2] "The mechanism of ring contraction probably involves carbene de-insertion as a key carboncarbon bond-cleavage step."
[3] "This latter complex is inactive in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes, and therefore the formation of cyclopentane in the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes is probably responsible for the de-activation of the catalyst by formation of cyclopentadienyl complexes."
[4] "The reluctance of cyclopentane to undergo hydrogenolysis was further studied: under the reaction conditions cyclopentane reacts with 1 to give the corresponding cyclopentyl derivative [(SiO)2TaC5H9] (13), which evolves towards cyclopentadienyl derivative [(SiO)2Ta(C5H5)] (14) according to both solid-state NMR and EXAFS spectroscopies."
[5] "In the case of 1, a similar trend in ring size dependence was also observed (vide supra), yet cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, which is not observed with Group 4 metal hydrides. This, along with the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products, speaks for a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and 1."
[6] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."
[7] "The formation of smaller cyclic products can readily be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes as delineated in Scheme 4 (678, 79 and 810)."
[8] "Secondly, the intermediate 4 could also directly undergo intramolecular activation of a carboncarbon bond in the α or in the β position (Scheme 4, Pathways 4 and 5)."
[9] "Pathway 5 corresponds to an α-alkyl transfer, which gives an intermediate 11 that can readily transform into either intermediate 3 upon hydrogen addition or 12 via successive β-H and α-H transfer steps."
[10] "On the other hand, the conversion of 11 to 6 and/or 12 by simple hydrogen-transfer processes does allow the formation of all the products to be explained."
[11] "Carboncarbon activation in the β position in intermediate 4 (Pathway 4) can be regarded as a β-alkyl transfer, depending on whether one considers that the oxidation state of the metal centre has changed or not (metallacyclopropane versus π-olefin complex)."
[12] "This pathway gives ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which can readily undergo insertion to give 9, either directly or via 6, and hence leads to the formation of smaller ring systems (cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane)."
[13] "While it is difficult to point to a specific mechanism in this system, it seems that metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, since they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a complex mechanism that includes ring contraction, which is likely facilitated by carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. The formation of cyclopentane during the hydrogenolysis of various cyclic alkanes can lead to the deactivation of the catalyst through the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes. Cyclopentane, which is less reactive towards hydrogenolysis, forms a cyclopentyl derivative under reaction conditions, which then evolves into a cyclopentadienyl derivative. The mechanism for silica-supported tantalum hydrides differs from that of Group 4 metal hydrides, as evidenced by the hydrogenolysis of cyclohexane and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely to be involved in the mechanism than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, as they both involve transition states with seven-membered rings. The formation of smaller cyclic products can be explained by a combination of rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular activation of carbon-carbon bonds in the α or β position can lead to the formation of various intermediates, including ω-alkenyl complexes, which can undergo insertion to form smaller ring systems such as cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅胶支持的钽氢化物催化下的环烷烃氢解涉及复杂的机制，包括环收缩，这可能通过碳烯脱插作为关键的碳-碳键断裂步骤来促进。在各种环烷烃的氢解过程中形成环戊烷会导致催化剂失活，通过形成不活跃的环戊二烯基复合物。环戊烷对氢解的反应性较低，在反应条件下形成环戊基衍生物，然后演变成环戊二烯基衍生物。硅胶支持的钽氢化物的机制与第4族金属氢化物不同，这从环己烷的氢解和一碳环收缩产物的形成中得到证明。金属环丁烷和碳烯中间体比σ-键互换或直接氧化加成更可能涉及机制，因为它们都涉及具有七元环的过渡态。较小的环状产物的形成可以通过金属环丁烷的重排和氢解的组合来解释。在中间体4中α或β位置的碳-碳键的分子内活化可以导致各种中间体的形成，包括ω-烯基复合物，这些复合物可以进行插入以形成较小的环系统，如环己烷或甲基环戊烷。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
