<quotes>

[1] "As recently reported by three independent research groups [25], a promising alternative system for ODHP arises from the application of iron zeolites using N2O as the oxidant, leading to remarkable propylene yields at a substantially lower operation temperature (643773 K) in comparison with the mixed metal oxides (823923 K)."
[2] "The applied experimental condi- tions in [25] markedly differ with respect to temperature,feed composition, space velocity, and total pressure, so that a proper comparison between the various catalysts cannot be established."
[3] "Besides, iron zeolites strongly deactivate during ODHP with N2O due to coke formation and it is unclear from these publications whether activities have been reported at a similar degree of deactivation and/or the same reaction time."
[4] "The time and degree of deactivation in Fig. 2 depend on the catalyst in question."
[5] "Since propylene is the main coke precursor, the amount of coke formed should be indicative of the catalyst activity towards propylene production, while the catalysts in which propene produc- tion is lower should form less coke, and deactivate to a lesser extent relatively."
[6] "The relatively fast deactivation of lie-Fe-Z can be attributed to the presence of a relatively high number of Brnsted acid sites in the sample."
[7] "It is well-known that coking is favored over acidic protonic sites in the zeolites, which catalyze formation of carbenium ions from propylene that end up in the formation of carbonaceous deposits."
[8] "The samples prepared by liquid-ion exchange and chemical vapor deposition contain high iron loadings and a marked contribution of large iron oxide particles, where the total combustion of reaction intermediates leading to the olefin appears to be favored."
[9] "The current work has not specifically touched upon the role of acidity on the ODHP reaction, which may be important not only for the initial performance but also to understand and minimize catalyst deactivation."
[10] "Our results show that deactivation is slower over the steam- activated zeolites (Fig. 2), with a significantly reduced number of Brnsted sites as a consequence of the steam treatment [21]."
[11] "A high number of protonic acid sites should catalyze coke formation, thus accelerating the zeolite deactivation, as suggested from the results over lie- Fe-Z."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has been reported by three independent research groups to be a promising alternative system, leading to remarkable propylene yields at a substantially lower operation temperature compared to mixed metal oxides. However, the experimental conditions in these studies markedly differ, making a proper comparison between the various catalysts difficult. Iron zeolites strongly deactivate during ODHP with N2O due to coke formation, and it is unclear whether activities have been reported at a similar degree of deactivation and/or the same reaction time. The time and degree of deactivation depend on the catalyst in question. Since propylene is the main coke precursor, the amount of coke formed should be indicative of the catalyst activity towards propylene production. The relatively fast deactivation of some catalysts can be attributed to the presence of a relatively high number of Brnsted acid sites in the sample. Coking is favored over acidic protonic sites in the zeolites, which catalyze the formation of carbenium ions from propylene that end up in the formation of carbonaceous deposits. The samples prepared by liquid-ion exchange and chemical vapor deposition contain high iron loadings and a marked contribution of large iron oxide particles, where the total combustion of reaction intermediates leading to the olefin appears to be favored. The role of acidity on the ODHP reaction has not been specifically touched upon in this work, but it may be important not only for the initial performance but also to understand and minimize catalyst deactivation. Deactivation is slower over the steam-activated zeolites, with a significantly reduced number of Brnsted sites as a consequence of the steam treatment. A high number of protonic acid sites should catalyze coke formation, thus accelerating the zeolite deactivation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.据报道，使用N2O作为氧化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）中是一种有前途的替代系统，与混合金属氧化物相比，在显著较低的操作温度下产生显著的丙烯产量。然而，这些研究中的实验条件明显不同，使得各种催化剂之间的适当比较变得困难。在N2O存在下，铁沸石在ODHP中由于焦炭形成而强烈失活，目前尚不清楚是否在相似的失活程度和/或相同的反应时间下报告了活性。失活的时间和程度取决于所研究的催化剂。由于丙烯是主要的焦炭前体，形成的焦炭量应表明催化剂对丙烯生产的活性。一些催化剂的相对快速失活可归因于样品中存在相对大量的布隆斯特酸位点。在沸石中，焦化倾向于在酸性质子位点上发生，这些位点催化丙烯形成碳正离子，最终形成碳沉积物。通过液体离子交换和化学气相沉积制备的样品含有高铁含量，并且存在大量铁氧化物颗粒的显著贡献，其中导致烯烃的反应中间体的完全燃烧似乎受到青睐。本工作中尚未具体涉及酸性对ODHP反应的作用，但其可能不仅对初始性能而且对理解和最小化催化剂失活都非常重要。在蒸汽活化沸石上，失活速度较慢，由于蒸汽处理，布隆斯特位点的数量显著减少。大量的质子酸位点应催化焦炭形成，从而加速沸石失活。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
