<quotes>

[1] "Mechanistic aspects of dehydrogenation of ethane over mononuclear Cr(III)silica have been studied by means of quantum chemistry. A family of cluster models have been generated based on the conceptual idea of mono- nuclear Cr(III) with three covalent ligands that coordinate through oxygen, as exemplified by the Cr(III)G structure earlier proposed by DeRossi et al.,13 cf. Fig. 1. For the main reaction steps investigated, the various models provide consistent reaction energy profiles."
[2] "A reaction mechanism consisting of the following three reaction steps is found to be viable: (1) CH activation of ethane according to -bond metathesis,accompanied by formation of OH and CrC bonds,(2) -H transfer to chromium with subsequent loss of ethene, and (3) regeneration of the chromium site by means of -bond metathesis with subsequent loss of H2."
[3] "Regeneration of the catalytic cite according to reaction (3) requires the initial CH activation step to involve a CrO ester linkage to the surface. Based on free-energy calculations, the second reaction step, involving -hydrogen transfer to the metal,is found to be rate determining. Activation free energy and enthalpy are computed in excess of 300 and 200 kJ mol1, respectively."
[4] "An alternative mechanism is formulated in which CH activation takes place at a reactive hydridochromium complex formed in reaction (2), rather than at more stable chromium species with three oxygen ligands. Key features of this mechanism are the formation of HH and CrC bonds by means of -bond metathesis and that CH activation becomes rate determining. The computed activation enthalpy is approximately 70 kJ mol1,i.e. some 130 kJ mol1 less than computed for the mechanism proposed in Refs. 3 and 37."
[5] "The presence of traces of moisture in the feed will terminate the hydride-based mechanism."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The dehydrogenation of ethane over mononuclear Cr(III)silica has been studied using quantum chemistry. Various cluster models have been created based on the concept of Cr(III) with three covalent ligands coordinating through oxygen. These models offer consistent reaction energy profiles for key steps.

2. A feasible reaction pathway involving three steps has been identified: activation of the C-H bond through metathesis, hydrogen transfer to the metal, and regeneration of the catalyst site through metathesis. The second step, hydrogen transfer, is found to be the rate-limiting process.

3. For the catalyst to regenerate, the first step of C-H activation needs to involve a Cr-O ester bond. Calculations show that the hydrogen transfer step is rate-determining, with activation energies exceeding 300 kJ/mol.

4. An alternative mechanism proposes that C-H activation occurs at a reactive hydride complex formed in the second step, leading to formation of hydrogen-hydrogen and Cr-C bonds via metathesis. This mechanism has a lower activation enthalpy of around 70 kJ/mol compared to previous models.

5. Moisture in the feed will halt the hydride-based reaction mechanism.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 对于乙烷在单核Cr(III)硅酸盐上的脱氢反应，使用量子化学进行了研究。基于通过氧原子进行共价配位的Cr(III)的构想，创建了一系列簇模型。这些模型为关键步骤提供了一致的反应能量轮廓。

2. 已确定了三个步骤的可行反应途径：通过迁移到金属的C-H键，氢转移到金属，以及通过迁移到金属的金属重新生成催化剂站点。第二步，氢转移，被发现是决定性的过程。

3. 为了使催化剂再生，第一步中的C-H激活需要涉及一个Cr-O酯键。计算显示，氢转移步骤是决定性的，其活化能超过300 kJ/mol。

4. 另一种机制提出，在第二步中形成的活性氢化物复合体中，C-H激活发生在形成氢-氢和Cr-C键的迁移过程中。与先前的模型相比，此机制的活化焓约为70 kJ/mol。

5. 饲料中的微量水分将终止基于氢的反应机制。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
