element not found
element not found
ACS ACS Publications C&EN CAS
Access provided byTIANJIN UNIV Log In
Pair your account to your Institution
Click the pair button to affiliate your institution with your personal account
PAIR
Turn off this notification
more info...
ADVERTISEMENT
Chemistry of MaterialsVol 26/Issue 1Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
REVIEWSeptember 12, 2013
Kinetics and Mechanisms of Aggregative Nanocrystal Growth
Fudong Wang*Vernal N. RichardsShawn P. ShieldsWilliam E. Buhro*
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
The aggregative growth and oriented attachment of nanocrystals and nanoparticles are reviewed, and they are contrasted to classical LaMer nucleation and growth, and to Ostwald ripening. Kinetic and mechanistic models are presented, and experiments directly observing aggregative growth and oriented attachment are summarized. Aggregative growth is described as a nonclassical nucleation and growth process. The concept of a nucleation function is introduced, and approximated with a Gaussian form. The height (Γmax) and width (Δtn) of the nucleation function are systematically varied by conditions that influence the colloidal stability of the small, primary nanocrystals participating in aggregative growth. The nucleation parameters Γmax and Δtn correlate with the final nanocrystal mean size and size distribution, affording a potential means of achieving nucleation control in nanocrystal synthesis.
Copyright © 2013 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Crystallization
Nanocrystals
Nanoparticles
Nucleation
Ostwald Ripening
Keywords
what are keywords
Nanocrystal
Nucleation
Growth
Kinetics
Mechanism
Aggregation
Coalescence
Note Added After ASAP Publication
This article was published ASAP on September 12, 2013, with an error in eq 11. The corrected version was published ASAP on September 13, 2013.
SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the Celebrating Twenty-Five Years of Chemistry of Materials special issue.
1 Introduction
A hundred years ago, synthesis in organic chemistry was an empirical enterprise guided largely by chance experimentation, which had resulted in a catalog of useful but poorly understood procedures. Early in the 20th century, the mechanisms governing organic transformations, such as those for aliphatic (SN1, SN2) (1, 2) and aromatic substitution, (3, 4) were elucidated, putting bond-forming reactions on a systematic basis. The tremendous sophistication of organic synthesis today is largely due to the development of mechanistic understanding, and the resulting availability of a set of widely accepted mechanisms.
Christopher Ingold, a major early contributor to mechanistic organic chemistry, astutely foreshadowed the future development of organic synthesis in the following statement: (5, 6)
“The new work made it inescapably clear that the old order in organic chemistry was changing, the art of the subject diminishing, its science increasing: no longer could one just mix things: sophistication in physical chemistry was the base from which all chemists, including the organic chemist, must start.”
In our view, the current state of nanocrystal synthesis is comparable to that of organic synthesis a century ago. Empirical procedures have been developed for the preparation of a wide range of semiconductor, ceramic, and metallic nanocrystals. In many cases, the procedures have been optimized to provide narrow nanocrystal size distributions and control over mean sizes. However, the work is more empirical art than science. Nanocrystal synthesis is not far beyond the “eye of newt and toe of frog” (7) stage. Mechanisms are sometimes invoked without evidence, and, until fairly recently, little experimental mechanistic work had been completed. Apart from the classical LaMer mechanism (8-18) and Ostwald ripening, (19-34) a set of varied and widely accepted growth mechanisms to purposefully guide nanocrystal synthesis is not yet available.
Studies of the formation mechanism of colloidal gold date back to 1951. (35) However, the modern era for mechanistic studies of nanocrystal growth appear to have begun in the mid-1990s. (36) Most experimental studies of nanocrystal growth and size focusing have invoked the LaMer mechanism, (12-18) Ostwald ripening, (21-34) or their combination. (37-40) The principal feature of the LaMer mechanism is that nucleation is temporally confined to an early burst period. In Ostwald ripening, larger nanocrystals grow at the expense of smaller nanocrystals, which are progressively dissolved. Finke and co-workers have published a series of experimental papers in which continuous nucleation and autocatalytic growth are proposed. (41-43) Several experimental mechanistic studies have identified the participation of nanocrystal aggregation and coalescence in growth processes. (44-68) Some mechanistic work is not readily categorized. (69, 70) Important theoretical studies of nanocrystal nucleation and growth have been contributed by Jensen and Bawendi, (71) Matijević, (51, 72) Mulvaney, (73) Peng, (69) Privman, (74, 75) Skrdla, (76-78) Talapin, (31) Zukoski, (55, 57, 79) and others. (80)
The contribution of aggregative processes to the growth of colloidal particles was recognized very early. Uyeda and co-workers determined the multiply twinned internal structures of gold nanoparticles in 1973, (81) which they proposed to result from coalescence of initially formed primary particles prior to particle growth. At approximately the same time, a reinvestigation of the classical LaMer growth of sulfur sols demonstrated that particle number densities passed through a maximum early in the growth process and then declined in time. (82) This decrease was attributed to particle coalescence. Subsequently, colloidal particles of various well-defined shapes were observed to be composed of smaller, primary nanocrystallites having diameters of 1–3 nm, indicative of aggregation. (48, 83) In the 1990s, Zukoski and co-workers began to incorporate aggregative processes into their kinetic schemes for the growth of gold, silver, and silica nanoparticles. (36, 55, 57) Later, Finke and co-workers incorporated nanocluster agglomeration into their kinetic schemes as well. (45-47, 49, 50) Banfield and co-workers elucidated the oriented-attachment mechanism (56, 58, 59, 84) of nanocrystal growth in 1998, (58) which is an aggregative process. More recently, nanocrystal growth by aggregation and coalescence has been directly observed in real time by in situ transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies. (44, 85-90)
In this review, we argue that advantages inherent in aggregative growth will potentially allow the systematic, rational control of nanocrystal size and size distribution to be achieved. In section 2, we summarize the conditions necessary to achieve such control, and we introduce the concept of a nucleation function. In section 3, we review the exciting recent developments in the direct observation of aggregative growth. Section 4 addresses the kinetics of aggregative growth. Section 5 reviews the experimental determination of aggregative nucleation functions, and their role in controlling nanocrystal sizes and size distributions. We hope to convince that mechanism-based synthetic control in nanocrystal synthesis is within reach.
2 Strategy for Size Control
The classical picture for homogeneous nucleation and growth is summarized in the familiar plot from LaMer and Dinegar (see Figure 1). (10) The plot assumes a chemical reaction that produces a monomer, such that the monomer concentration steadily rises in time zone I, and passes the threshold concentration for nucleation in time-zone II. Nucleation and subsequent growth decreases the monomer concentration below the nucleation threshold, such that nucleation ceases and growth upon the existing nuclei occurs in time zone III. Consequently, nucleation is restricted to zone II, and, in the classical picture, the number of nuclei generated in this period determines the number of growing particles. The time width of zone II determines the width of the resulting particle-size distribution.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of monomer concentration during particle nucleation and growth from solution in a classical LaMer mechanism. (10) The blue arrows identify the nucleation period (zone II). The red arrow indicates the growth period (zone III).
The time-dependent nucleation rate, Γ(t), parallels the monomer-concentration profile in zone II (Figure 1). (91) At the beginning of zone II, Γ(t) = 0. The nucleation rate subsequently rises, passes through a maximum, declines, and returns to zero at the end of zone II. We refer to this time-dependent behavior of the nucleation rate as the nucleation function. (92) Experimental nucleation functions have been measured in a few cases. (91-98) They are apparently asymmetric, (91) but they are reasonably well approximated by Gaussian functions. (92, 99) Some schematic nucleation functions are depicted in Figure 2.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Three schematic nucleation functions a–c having Gaussian profiles (black curve, function a; red curve, function b; blue curve, function c). The width of the nucleation function (Δtn) provides a measure of the time window for nucleation. The maximum nucleation rate is Γmax. The area under the nucleation function is the number of particles nucleated (N). Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
For a classical nucleation-and-growth process, the ultimate mean particle size and size distribution are encoded in the nucleation function. The 2σ width of the nucleation function (Δtn) provides a measure of the time window for nucleation. Because Δtn is smaller for function b than that for function a in Figure 2, the nucleation process described by function b will produce a narrower final particle size distribution.
The area under the nucleation function is N, (92) the number of nuclei formed. Functions b and c in Figure 2 have identical Δtn values, and should produce equally narrow size distributions. However, function c has a larger maximum nucleation rate Γmax and thus a larger under-curve area. Thus, with an equal number of monomers generated, the nucleation process described by function c will produce a larger N and ultimately a smaller final particle mean size.
The rational control of nanocrystal mean sizes and size distributions are arguably the two greatest challenges in nanocrystal synthesis. Gaining control of the nucleation function through purposeful manipulations of Δtn and Γmax provides a potential means of achieving those goals. Ideally, conditions would be found to minimize Δtn, ensuring a narrow final size distribution. The number of nuclei N, and thus the final mean nanocrystal size, would be best controlled by variation of Γmax, at the minimized value of Δtn.
Achieving synthetic control by this nucleation-control strategy requires that nucleation functions be experimentally measurable, and that Δtn and Γmax be amenable to purposeful variation by chemical or other means. Indeed, critical-nucleus sizes in classical-nucleation processes have been determined to be in the range of tens to hundreds of atoms or molecules, theoretically and experimentally. (100-116) This very small size scale is not readily accessible to experimental measurement; therefore, determination of time-dependent nucleation rates is challenging.
Nucleation functions and nucleation rates have been measured in several studies, particularly in the colloidal crystallization of polymer spheres (113) and in protein crystallization, (110-112) where the length and time scales are considerably larger than those for the classical nucleation of metals, semiconductors, ceramics, or small-molecule crystals. For colloidal and protein crystallization, nucleation rates have been experimentally determined by light scattering, (102, 105, 107, 112, 113) atomic force microscopy (AFM), (108, 110) scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), (104, 116) and by direct video microscopy. (111) In this review, we argue that aggregative nucleation and growth using small primary nanocrystals affords similar length-scale advantages and enables the experimental determination of nucleation functions under various conditions.
Aggregative nucleation and growth by necessity follows classical nucleation and growth. A general kinetic profile depicting the regimes of nanocrystal growth, with the participation of aggregative processes, is given in Figure 3. An initial induction period and size increase correspond to classical nucleation and growth, respectively, in regime C (for “classical”). The classical regime may produce primary nanocrystallites, often in the diameter range of 1–3 nm. That regime may be followed by a second induction and growth period associated with aggregative nucleation and growth in regime designated as A (for “aggregative”). Ostwald ripening may occur in a final regime designated as OR (for “Ostwald ripening”).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of nanocrystal growth including classical nucleation and growth (regime C), aggregative nucleation and growth (regime A), and Ostwald ripening (regime OR). The three regimes may overlap temporally to varying extents, which is not shown here. Nanocrystal nucleation, growth, and Ostwald ripening steps are color-coded in the sigmoidal (S-shaped) kinetic profile as blue, red, and black, respectively. The smallest yellow circles represent atoms, ions, molecules, or small clusters in regime C, and primary nanocrystals in regime A.
We note that the three regimes may overlap temporally to varying extents. The relative magnitudes of nanocrystal growth occurring in the classical and aggregative regimes may vary, or the aggregative regime may be absent. Ostwald ripening may also be absent. Nucleation functions are associated with both classical and aggregative nucleation, but the last active nucleation process determines final nanocrystal sizes and size distributions.
As noted above, one also requires the means for purposeful variations of Δtn and Γmax, such that the height and width of the nucleation function may be controlled. For aggregative nucleation and growth from small primary nanocrystals, we have suggested that any additive that influences the colloidal stability of the nanocrystals may potentially vary the nucleation-rate behavior. (92, 94, 95) Indeed, nucleation rates in protein crystallization have been controlled in this manner. (110-112) In contrast, nucleation control in classical nucleation will require factors that influence the stability of monomer species consisting of a single to a few atoms, which are similar to reactive intermediates. They will not likely respond to polymer or ionic additives in the same manner as do primary nanocrystallites. Therefore, classical nucleation may be inherently more difficult to control, because the nucleation function is not as readily measured or manipulated. Nucleation control in nanocrystal growth by aggregative processes may be more readily achievable.
3 Direct Observation of Aggregative Growth
Perhaps the most-exciting recent development in mechanistic understanding of colloidal-nanocrystal nucleation and growth is the real-time visualization of growth trajectories of individual nanocrystals in dispersion, using a liquid cell in a TEM. In the first such study, Alivisatos and co-workers observed that colloidal platinum nanoparticles grew both by simple monomer attachment in solution and by particle coalescence. (44) Fascinating details were revealed about the growth processes.
The study employed the precursor Pt(acetylacetonate)2 in a solution containing an oleylamine surfactant. The electron beam in the TEM induced the nucleation of platinum nanocrystals, which continued for over 10 s, such that nanocrystal growth temporally overlapped the nucleation period. Nanocrystals grew by both monomer addition and coalescence events. The number of nucleated nanocrystals reached a maximum at 21 s, and then significantly declined to a constant value. Nanocrystal aggregation and coalescence was primarily responsible for this decline. The aggregative growth also produced the expected bimodal size distribution at 24 s, which later resolved into a sharpened single mode.
The rate behavior and other characteristics of the growth processes differed between the classical, monomer-addition, and aggregative-coalescence pathways. (44) Nanocrystals undergoing only monomer addition grew continuously until reaching a saturation size, maintaining nearly spherical morphologies (Figure 4). In addition, a near-constant, uniform diffraction contrast persisted in such nanocrystals throughout growth, indicating them to be single crystals.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of different growth trajectories of colloidal platinum nanoparticles: (A) video images showing simple growth by means of monomer addition (a, left side of panel) or growth by means of coalescence (b, right side of panel); (B) enlarged (1.5×) color images of images shown in panel A. Distinct contrast changes in the coalesced particles are highlighted with arrows, indicating recrystallization. Reprinted with permission from ref 44. Copyright 2009, The American Association for the Advancement of Science, Washington, DC.
In contrast, nanocrystal growth by aggregation and coalescence was discontinuous. (44) Obviously, such growth produced stepwise size increases, as nanocrystals of comparable dimensions were coalesced within a short time period. However, subsequent growth was observed to pause in an interval immediately following coalescence, both by monomer addition and further coalescence events. During this pause period, the coalesced particle was observed to rearrange in morphology, eventually achieving a near-spherical shape (Figure 4). Moreover, the diffraction contrast was observed to be uneven and to dynamically shift during the pause while a structural rearrangement and recrystallization process occurred, ultimately affording a single-crystalline nanoparticle. Smaller nanocrystals were found to be more prone to multiple coalescence events than were larger nanocrystals, which was attributed to their larger surface fractions and energies, and increased mobility and collision frequency. (44)
Subsequently, many research groups have reported the real-time monitoring of aggregative processes among colloidal nanoparticles by using in situ TEM. Grogan and co-workers observed the aggregation (but not coalescence) of gold nanoparticles, the kinetics of which were consistent with a diffusion-limited-aggregation model. (117) Similarly, Evans and co-workers monitored the growth of PbS nanoparticles, in which monomer-attachment, coalescence, and Ostwald-ripening processes were observed. (86) Mirkin and co-workers studied the dynamics of gold-nanoparticle coarsening in attoliter-volume reactors created by scanning-probe block-copolymer lithography, in which the coalescence process could be differentiated from Ostwald ripening. (85) Xin and Zheng studied the Ostwald ripening of bismuth nanoparticles under precursor-scarce conditions. (88) They revealed oscillating ripening behavior among pairs of adjacent nanoparticles, in which one grew at the expense of the other for a time, and then the process reversed. The growth of a small nanoparticle at the expense of a larger one was described as “anti-Ostwald ripening”.
Lee, Zettl, Alivisatos, and co-workers obtained a higher-resolution observation of platinum-nanocrystal growth using liquid cells having graphene windows. (89) Such cells provided several advantages over the previously developed cells employing thicker, Si3N4 or SiO2 windows. (44, 86, 118) This study revealed that the coalescence of platinum nanocrystals proceeded along a specific crystallographic orientation, corresponding to the fusion of {111} facets. The likely lowest ligand coverage for {111} planes due to their lowest surface energy (for a face-centered cubic crystal such as platinum) may facilitate nanocrystal contact at {111}. Before coalescing along the {111} orientation, the nanocrystals showed correlated rather than independent motion over a prolonged period to facilitate lattice alignment. The correlated motion apparently rises from attractive forces, including van der Waals interactions.
After coalescence, the nanocrystals gradually reshaped and evolved truncated facets, exhibiting single-crystalline or twinned structures. (89) The single-crystalline structures resulted from the joining of mirror {111} facets, whereas the twinned structures resulted from the fusion of misoriented {111} facets. The twin boundaries so generated remained locked within the nanocrystals as they underwent morphological remodeling. Misoriented coalescence thus appears to be the origin of the twinned nanocrystals common for face-centered cubic (fcc) metals, as has been previously proposed. (81)
Zheng and co-workers studied Pt3Fe nanorod growth in solution by in situ TEM, which proceeded in three stages. (90) In the first stage, monodisperse spherical nanoparticles grew by parallel monomer attachment and nanoparticle coalescence. In the second stage, the nanoparticles formed flexible nanoparticle chains as a result of dipolar interactions between nanoparticles. In the final stage, adjacent nanoparticles underwent fusion via initial neck formation, producing twisted polycrystalline rods. These twisted structures persisted over extended times prior to straightening into single-crystal nanorods. This straightening process was presumably driven by the decrease in total energy from reducing interfacial energy and eliminating crystal defects.
Parent and co-workers reported the in situ scanning tunneling electron microscopy (STEM) study of palladium nanoparticle synthesis in a liquid-crystal surfactant template. They observed that palladium nanoparticles grew through coalescence or sintering after small (∼2–5 nm) spherical particles were nucleated. (87)
The in situ TEM-monitoring studies summarized in this section show clearly that nanocrystal aggregation and coalescence are general features of colloidal-nanocrystal growth.
4 Kinetics of Aggregative Growth
The kinetics of diffusion-limited colloid aggregation (DLCA) (119-123) and reaction-limited colloid aggregation (RLCA) (124-131) have been studied since the early 1980s. In RLCA, a Smoluchowski rate equation, (55, 132) describing the time-dependent evolution of the number density of particles as a function of size as they aggregate, is often used to represent the aggregation probability as a function of the masses of two colliding clusters or particles. In 1991, Bogush and Zukoski applied this model to the aggregative growth of primary silica nanoparticles 3–10 nm in diameter, showing that aggregation alone was capable of producing narrow size distributions in the resulting, larger, near-monodispersed colloidal spheres. (55) Their seminal work concluded that small, primary nanoparticles were colloidally unstable and rapidly aggregated at early times to achieve stable-size aggregates. The number of growing aggregates was set by this initial process. Subsequent growth occurred by addition of primary nanoparticles to these larger, stable aggregates. We argue here that the initial aggregation and subsequent stepwise addition constitute a nonclassical nucleation-and-growth mechanism.
Within the same decade, Matijević, Privman, and co-workers similarly demonstrated that the aggregation of primary particles was mechanistically capable of producing larger, monodispersed secondary colloids of gold. (51) Zukoski and co-workers subsequently extended their model to the aggregative growth of silver nanocrystals. (57) Kinetic studies of oriented attachment emerged in 2003. (52, 56, 60, 133-136) Finke first reported a four-step mechanism combining classical and aggregative growth in 2005. (45, 46, 49, 50, 63) Following these initial studies, the contribution of aggregative processes to nanocrystal growth, in certain cases, has been well-established (see below).
Kinetic studies of aggregative growth can be complicated by the temporal overlap of classical nucleation and growth, aggregative growth, and Ostwald ripening. (36, 45, 46, 49, 50, 55, 57, 63, 92, 94, 95) By studying the growth of small, preformed primary nanoparticles, classical nucleation and growth are removed from the mechanistic scheme. Then the kinetics and other mechanistic observations only need to distinguish between aggregative growth and Ostwald ripening. This approach is pursued in the following subsection.
4.1 Distinguishing Aggregative Growth and Ostwald Ripening
Our interest in aggregative growth was stimulated by two papers of Zhong and co-workers, (137, 138) in which solvent dispersions of small (1.7 nm) thiolate-capped gold nanocrystals having broad size distributions were coarsened to larger nanocrystals having narrow size distributions. The authors claimed that growth occurred by a core coalescence, or aggregative, process. In contrast, we suspected that coarsening had occurred by Ostwald ripening, a conventionally accepted mechanism for the conversion of smaller-nanocrystal size populations into larger ones. We thus undertook a mechanism and kinetics study of the coarsening process. (92) Our findings concurred with the initial claim of Zhong and co-workers.
We measured the coarsening kinetics of 1.7-nm-diameter thiolate-capped gold nanocrystals by monitoring the mean nanocrystal size, expressed as the mean volume , as a function of time. A typical kinetics curve is plotted in Figure 5, which showed sigmoidal (S-shaped) coarsening kinetics. An initial induction period was followed by a regime of rapid growth, after which further growth was discontinued for a significant length of time.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Sigmoidal coarsening kinetics and the fit of eq 1 (given later in the text) for 1.7-nm-diameter thiolate-capped gold nanocrystals. is the nanocrystal mean volume at time t, and V̅lim is the final nanocrystal mean volume. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Sigmoidal growth kinetics such as those depicted in Figure 5 are typically observed for classical LaMer nucleation and growth (regime C in Figure 3). (15, 16, 18, 31, 41-43) The initial induction period is attributed to the nucleation regime, in which a population of stable nuclei are formed. Nucleation is then followed by a growth period, which ceases when monomer species are consumed. We show here (and below, in reference to the work of others) that sigmoidal growth kinetics are also typically observed for aggregative nanocrystal growth (regime A in Figure 3).
However, sigmoidal growth kinetics are inconsistent with equilibrium Ostwald ripening. The conventional Lifshitz–Slyozov–Wagner (LSW) model for Ostwald ripening posits that the mean nanocrystal volume increases linearly in time (regime OR in Figure 3). (19, 20) Moreover, Ostwald ripening is not a nucleation-driven process, and an initial induction period (like that in Figure 5) for the coarsening of nanocrystals having an initially broad size distribution is not expected.
Early time (nano)crystal-size distributions (CSDs) also provided strong evidence for aggregative growth in our studies of gold nanocrystal coarsening. (92) At times shortly after the end of the initial induction period, the CSDs were bimodal (Figure 6), with the smaller mode corresponding to the initial, primary nanocrystals, and the larger mode corresponding to critical-size aggregates of primary nanocrystals (aggregative nuclei; see below). Presumably, these critical-size aggregates corresponded to the stable-size aggregates identified by Bogush and Zukoski (see above). (55) As aggregates smaller than this size are unstable, a second peak emerges in the CSD, at the larger mode. Such bimodal size distributions are theoretically predicted for aggregative processes, (55, 51, 79, 139-144) and have also been observed by other researchers. (44, 145-153)
Figure 6
Figure 6. Diameter-distribution histogram of gold nanocrystals taken a few minutes after maximum nucleation rate (τn) was achieved. The crystal-size distribution (CSD) is strongly bimodal, with the smaller-size mode corresponding to primary nanocrystals, and the larger-size mode to the nanoparticles growing by aggregative processes. F is the fraction of nanocrystals of a specific diameter. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Significantly, under normal circumstances, Ostwald ripening is incapable of producing a bimodal size distribution, similar to those that we observed (Figure 6). Instead, Ostwald ripening produces a unimodal distribution that shifts and broadens during coarsening, but does not separate into two modes. (31, 151, 154-157) A bifurcation (into a bimodal distribution) by Ostwald ripening requires a coarsening-rate discontinuity at a critical nanocrystal size, (158) which is a special condition that is not present in our studies of gold nanocrystal growth. Experimental observations of bimodal CSDs are occasionally mistakenly attributed to Ostwald ripening. (92) Indeed, Ostwald ripening can accentuate a pre-existing bimodal distribution. However, except under very rare circumstances, Ostwald ripening cannot generate a bimodal distribution. Thus, observation of early time bimodal CSDs should be attributed to aggregative growth rather than to Ostwald ripening.
Aggregative growth and Ostwald ripening may also be distinguished by nanoparticle core structure. Nanocrystals coarsened by Ostwald ripening should consist of a single crystalline domain, because they grow from single-crystalline primary nanocrystals by monomer addition. In contrast, nanoparticles grown by aggregation of primary nanocrystals should be initially polycrystalline. Over time, such polycrystalline nanoparticles may recrystallize to single crystals, develop multiply twinned structures as previously reported by Uyeda and co-workers (81) and Turkevich, (159) or remain polycrystalline.
High-resolution TEM imaging of gold nanoparticles harvested after 10 min under our coarsening conditions revealed 20%–40% of them to be polycrystalline. (92) These polycrystalline nanoparticles had mean crystalline-domain sizes of 1.5 nm, close to the diameter of the primary nanocrystals supporting their growth. After 60 min under coarsening conditions, ≥95% were single crystalline, and a minor fraction (≤5%) had become multiply twinned.
The results indicated that the initially polycrystalline secondary nanoparticles underwent recrystallization in time at the coarsening temperature (180 °C). For bulk phases, recrystallization temperatures are generally 33%–50% of the absolute melting point. (160) In our case, the gold nanoparticles recrystallized at 34% (453 K) of the absolute melting point of bulk gold (1337 K). Because gold nanocrystals melt at temperatures below the bulk melting point, the thermal conditions for recrystallization were clearly in place in our coarsening experiments. We surmised that all of the secondary nanoparticles were initially polycrystalline, as a result of aggregation and coalescence of the primary gold nanocrystals, prior to recrystallization. Our observation of polycrystalline secondary nanoparticles was inconsistent with Ostwald ripening.
4.2 Fitting Aggregative-Growth Kinetics: KJMA Approach
We used a modified Kolmogorov–Johnson–Mehl–Avrami (KJMA) expression to fit the sigmoidal profile in Figure 5 (eq 1),
(1)
where V̅lim is the nanocrystal mean volume at time t, V̅lim is the final nanocrystal mean volume, and V̅i is the primary-nanocrystal mean volume. The KJMA model applies rigorously to specific types of solid-state phase transformation; (161-163) however, it has also been used to fit other nucleation-and-growth processes exhibiting sigmoidal conversion kinetics. These have included crystal or particle formation from both solution and melts. (91, 164-170) The KJMA model has been previously applied to the solution-based nucleation and growth of nanocrystals. (171)
Equation 1 contains two fitting parameters: a rate parameter (kg) and the Avrami exponent (n). (172) For solid-state phase transformations, the value of n is often related to the mechanism of nucleation and the dimensionality of growth. (161, 173-175) Because of our nonrigorous application of the KJMA model to aggregative nanocrystal growth, we presume no physical interpretation of the fitted values of this exponent. In principle, the rate parameter kg is derived from a convolution of nucleation and growth steps. In practice, we have found it to be strongly correlated with aggregative-growth rates and insensitive to nucleation. (92) Similarly, kg is fairly insensitive to the value of n. (92) Because of the lack of a fundamental physical definition of kg in the application of the KJMA model to aggregative nanocrystal growth, we suggest that it is useful for comparing growth rates among closely similar growth processes. A modified KJMA model also distinguishes the onset time for Ostwald ripening (see below).
Other benefits to using the KJMA model as embodied in eq 1 and related equations (see below) for nanocrystal growth kinetics are its simplicity and the generally good fits it provides to the observed sigmoidal kinetic profiles. However, this application of the KJMA model also has detractions and detractors. Finke and Finney have pointed out that the lack of precise physical meaning to the parameters k (here, kg) and n is a major drawback. (176) Moreover, k (here, kg) is not a rate constant of the type encountered in standard chemical kinetics. (176) Skrdla has suggested that, although the KJMA model may be applied to classical, LaMer-like nanocrystal growth, (171) it is not well-used for aggregative processes. (77) Other kinetic models for aggregative nanocrystal growth have been presented, which are summarized below.
Oriented-Attachment Kinetics
Oriented attachment is a form of aggregative nanocrystal growth, the kinetics of which have been extensively investigated. Huang, Zhang, and Banfield studied the hydrothermal coarsening of ZnS nanocrystals in the presence of mercaptoethanol, finding that the kinetics corresponded to two distinct, consecutive growth regimes, the second (later) of which was consistent with Ostwald ripening. (60) The first growth regime was inconsistent with Ostwald ripening, and has been attributed to oriented attachment, for which the time dependence of the mean diameter (D) was described by eq 2, where D0 is the mean diameter at t = 0 and k1 is the rate constant for oriented attachment.
(2)
A subsequent study by these authors investigated the hydrothermal coarsening of ZnS nanocrystals in the absence of mercaptoethanol. (134) Under these conditions, the oriented-attachment and Ostwald-ripening regimes were found to significantly overlap, such that the kinetic data were best fit by eq 3:
(3)
where the first term described oriented attachment as in eq 2 and the second term described Ostwald ripening with k2 being the rate constant and n being a constant. The results of these studies foreshadow the next subsection of this review, on the mechanistic regimes of nanocrystal growth.
Subsequently, Huang, Lin, and co-workers developed a multistep kinetic model for oriented attachment of ZnS nanocrystals based in the Smoluchowski equation. (135) This population-balance model accounts for the oriented attachment of nanoparticles of varying sizes, including those having already undergone prior oriented attachment, and requires numerical simulation to fit the kinetic data. This model was also applied to the multistep oriented attachment of PbS (64) and SnO2 (136) nanocrystals. In the latter case, the oriented attachment kinetics were not complicated by the occurrence of Ostwald ripening.
Tsapatsis and co-workers elucidated an oriented-aggregation mechanism for the growth of zeolite (silicalite-1) crystals from silica sols. (133) The key observations supporting oriented aggregation were (1) the formation of 5-nm primary nanoparticles followed by an induction period prior to the emergence of a second population of much larger silicalite-1 particles, (2) the aggregate-like morphologies of the initially formed silicalite-1 particles having crystalline domain sizes equal to those of the primary nanoparticles, and (3) the successful fit of a quantitative aggregation model to the experimental kinetic data. We note that these observations are important indicators of aggregative-nanoparticle growth (see subsection 4.1). The mechanistic model employed a rate constant for coalescence (β) calculated from Derjaguin–Landau–Verwey–Overbeek (DLVO) theory. (177-179) Simulations using β and a multistep aggregation process were shown to fit the size vs yield and yield vs time data. These results were expanded in a follow-up publication. (52)
In 2004, Penn suggested that oriented attachment could be analyzed with conventional chemical kinetics by considering the primary nanoparticle (P) to be a molecular reactant. (56) She demonstrated that the growth kinetics were consistent with the mechanism in eq 4, in which the primary nanoparticles are in equilibrium with an outer-sphere dimer complex (P···P), such that the primary nanoparticles are able to rotate and reorient relative to each other. When an appropriate mutual orientation is achieved, attachment occurs yielding the coalesced particle P–P. The rate law for this mechanism (eq 5) is second order in primary-nanoparticle concentration. Penn noted that rate data previously reported by Huang, Zhang, and Banfield (60) for oriented aggregation of ZnS nanocrystals was indeed second order in primary nanoparticles.
(4)
(5)
Penn and co-workers subsequently applied the same mechanism (eq 4) and rate law (eq 5) to the growth of goethite nanorods from primary ferrihydrite nanoparticles. (180) Plots of inverse primary-nanoparticle concentration ([P]−1) versus time were linear, as expected for second-order kinetics. The authors compared the measured rate constants with the DLVO-theory-derived β rates calculated according to Tsapatsis and co-workers, (133) finding the experimental values to be many orders of magnitude smaller. The experimental rate constants were also shown to increase with decreasing primary-nanoparticle size.
Penn and co-workers subsequently studied the effects of ionic strength and primary-nanoparticle size on oriented-aggregation rates in more detail. (181) As above, the experimental plots of [P]−1 versus time were linear, in accord with second-order kinetics, at various ionic strengths and primary-nanoparticle sizes. The oriented-aggregation rate constant (k) was found to increase with increasing ionic strength and decreasing primary-nanoparticle size. The increase in k with increasing ionic strength followed the expected trend, but the experimental values were again many orders smaller than the DLVO-theory-derived β rates.
Pseudo-elementary-Step Kinetics
In 1997, Finke and Watzky introduced a new two-step kinetic model for nanocrystal formation. (43) In its initial form, this model accounted for the classical regime of nucleation and growth, but did not address aggregation. Experimentally, the growth kinetics were followed by a reporter reaction catalyzed by the growing nanoparticles, in which the nanoparticle growth was monitored by the kinetics of nanocrystal-catalyzed cyclohexene reduction to cyclohexane. The proposed mechanism included slow, continuous nucleation (steps of type 1, eq 6) and fast, autocatalytic surface growth (steps of type 2, eq 7), where A represents the metal-containing nanoparticle precursor, and B catalytic sites on the growing iridium nanoparticles.
(6)
(7)
Equations 6 and 7 constitute pseudo-elementary steps, each of which occurs many times, as determined by the relative values of k1 and k2, until all of precursor A is consumed. The sigmoidal kinetics of the reporter hydrogenation reaction were fit by the integrated rate law in eq 8, affording the experimental rate constants k1 and k2.
(8)
At that time, the authors claimed the mechanism represented by eqs 6 and 7 to be the first new mechanism for transition-metal nanoparticle formation in 45 years. (43)
In subsequent studies, Finke and co-workers encountered experimental kinetic profiles that could not be fit by the two-step mechanism. (45-47, 49, 50) These cases required the addition of one (eq 9) or two (eqs 9 and 10) aggregation (agglomeration) steps to fit the experimental data, where C represents a nanocrystal aggregate (agglomerate). As mentioned above, eqs 9 and 10 constitute pseudo-elementary steps, each of which is repeated in accordance with the values of the rate constants k3 and k4. Equation 9 was defined as a bimolecular-agglomeration step, and eq 10 as an autocatalytic agglomeration step. The integrated rate law for the four-step mechanism (eqs 6, 7, 9, and 10) could not be expressed in analytical form, and extraction of the rate constants k1–k4 required curvefitting by numerical methods. We note that the proposed bimolecular-agglomeration step (eq 9) resembles a nonclassical, aggregative-nucleation step (see below), and the proposed autocatalytic-agglomeration step (eq 10) resembles stepwise aggregative growth by sequential addition of primary nanocrystals.
(9)
(10)
Finke and Finney also studied the relationship between the KJMA model and the two-step Finke–Watzky (FW) model, and their relative abilities to fit sigmoidal kinetic data. (176) Several sets of experimental kinetic data for solid-state phase transformations were taken from the literature and fit by both the KJMA and FW models. In two-thirds of these cases, the data were fit equally well by the two models. In addition, Finney and Finke derived the functional relationships of the KJMA kg and n (eq 1) to the FW k1 and k2[A]0 (eqs 6 and 7), showing kg and n to be convolutions of k1 and k2[A]0. Finally, Finke and co-workers successfully refit the aggregative-growth kinetics of Buhro and co-workers (63) (such as in Figure 5) using the FW model for the aggregative steps in eqs 9 and 10. We find it compelling that the FW model, which has been designed for classical nucleation and growth processes, is applicable to aggregative processes, for which we propose nucleation and growth components (see below).
Dispersive Kinetic Models
We note, in passing, that Skrdla and Robertson have proposed dispersive kinetic models that address the classical nucleation and growth of nanocrystals. (77, 78, 171, 182, 183) Such models recognize that growth rates must vary with the size of the growing nanocrystal, requiring that a dispersion of activation energies (rate constants) must exist. The rate laws are expressed in analytical form, such as eq 11,
(11)
where x is the remaining monomer at time t, and α and β are empirical (fitting) parameters related to a t-independent activation enthalpy and t-dependent activation entropy, respectively. (78) However, Skrdla did not apply the dispersive kinetic approach to aggregative growth, because he does not consider it a conversion mechanism (phase transformation). Instead, he invoked the traditional DLCA and RLCA mechanisms to describe aggregation. (77)
4.3 Mechanistic Regimes of Nanocrystal Growth
Three modes of nanocrystal growth have been discussed here: classical (LaMer) nucleation and growth, aggregative growth, and Ostwald ripening (see Figure 3). In this subsection, we show that all three modes may contribute to a given nanocrystal-growth process, in successive temporal regimes and in the sequence given in Figure 3. Or, these growth regimes may have varying degrees of temporal overlap. As noted above, oriented attachment and Ostwald ripening may occur in successive or overlapping regimes. Results summarized here indicate that classical LaMer and aggregative growth may also occur successively or with overlap. Conditions under which the three growth modes are temporally well-separated provide an experimental window for mechanistic characterization of aggregative growth.
In seminal, early work, Van Hyning, Klemperer, and Zukoski studied the formation of silver nanoparticles by the aqueous borohydride reduction of Ag+ ions. (57, 184) Early time monitoring determined that the concentration of Ag+ was diminished by two orders of magnitude within a few seconds of reagent mixing, establishing an effectively complete reduction of Ag+ to Ag0 on that time scale. Within the same early time period, a distribution of small, primary silver nanocrystals having dimensions of 2–3 nm was produced.
These primary nanocrystals grew to 10–20 nm over the subsequent 20–60 min. Since the concentration of Ag+ nutrient was vanishingly small during this subsequent period, the continued growth could not be ascribed to the reduction of Ag+ to Ag0 at the nanoparticle surfaces. Thus, classical LaMer nucleation and growth was confined to the first few seconds, and the subsequent growth must therefore have occurred via a different process.
The authors observed that the final silver nanoparticle mean size and dispersity were insensitive to the initial primary particle size and size distribution, and thus to the initial stages of the reaction, including reagent mixing. This observation indicated that the initial classical LaMer nucleation and growth did not significantly influence the final mean size and dispersity. Instead, the final nanoparticle sizes and growth rates were highly dependent on temperature, borohydride concentration, and ionic strength, which determined nanoparticle surface potentials. The results pointed to the aggregation and coalescence of nanoparticles as the principle growth mechanism, as nanoparticle pair-interaction potentials are governed by the interplay of van der Waals attraction and electrostatic repulsion.
Consequently, the authors developed a quantitative aggregative-growth model using a population-balance approach based on Smoluchowski theory. Pair-interaction potentials were estimated by the DLVO approximation. The model semiquantitatively predicted the time evolution of particle size as functions of temperature and ionic strength, with the quantitative discrepancies ascribed to small differences between measured and calculated surface potentials. The ability of the model to predict final nanoparticle-size increases in response to ionic-strength increases affirmed the form of the pair-interaction potential, based only on van der Waals attractions and electrostatic repulsions. Moreover, the results demonstrated aggregation and coalescence capable of achieving narrow dispersities, and control of growth rates and final mean nanoparticle sizes through conditions that influence pairwise aggregation.
Emmerling, Kraehnert, Polte and co-workers reported important studies elucidating temporal regimes (or phases) of metallic nanoparticle growth. (61, 62, 185) These studies were conducted with in situ monitoring by X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), which allowed real-time determination of nanoparticle mean size and number density (SAXS), and mean metal oxidation state (XANES).
An initial investigation (185) pursued the mechanism of gold nanoparticle growth by citrate reduction of Au3+ (by the well-known Turkevich method (186)). Approximately 20% of the Au3+ was reduced to polydisperse primary gold nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 4 nm within the first 60 s, which underwent aggregation and coalescence to 8-nm mean-diameter nanoparticles over 20 min (Figure 7). In the following growth phase, the nanoparticles grew slowly to a mean diameter of 10 nm over the next 30 min by surface reduction of Au3+ and classical growth. In the final growth phase, the mean diameters of the nanoparticles grew rapidly to 15 nm via autocatalytic surface reduction as the remaining Au3+ was consumed. The polydispersity continuously narrowed over the entire time scale of the process. The results established that aggregation, not classical nucleation, determined the number of growing gold nanoparticles, and was involved in producing the final low polydispersity. Moreover, the study demonstrated that aggregation and coalescence may overlap temporally with classical growth.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic illustration for the process of gold nanocrystal formation by citrate reduction of Au3+ (the Turkevich method (186)). Adapted with permission from ref 185. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
In a subsequent study, the authors examined the growth mechanism for the reduction of Au3+ by the stronger reducing agent borohydride, which is a much faster reaction. (61) Monitoring found that all Au3+ was reduced to metallic gold, in the form of primary nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 1.6 nm, within the first 200 ms. Subsequently, the nanoparticles grew by aggregation and coalescence, with a concomitant decrease in number density, to 3.4 nm. Thus, with the stronger reducing agent, classical nucleation and growth, and aggregation and coalescence were separated into separate, successive time regimes.
The authors then elucidated the silver-nanoparticle growth mechanism upon the reduction of Ag+ by borohydride. (62) The mechanism was found to be closely related to that for the borohydride reduction of Au3+, (61) with one important difference. Silver nanoparticles grew principally by aggregation and coalescence; however, two distinct periods of aggregation and coalescence were observed. As was previously established by Van Hyning, Klemperer, and Zukoski, (57) complete reduction of Ag+ to Ag0 was assumed within the first milliseconds of reaction, yielding, in this case, 2-nm-diameter primary nanoparticles. These grew by aggregation and coalescence, with decreasing nanoparticle number densities, to 4.6-nm-diameter nanoparticles within the following 2 s.
Nanoparticle growth subsequently paused for 6–8 min, in an intermediate period of size stability. After this intermediate pause, growth resumed in a second stage of aggregation and coalescence to afford 12-nm-diameter silver nanoparticles. The intermediate period of stability was attributed to surface stabilization by borohydride coordination. The borohydride hydrolyzed over 6–8 min, ultimately initiating the second stage of growth, as previously suggested by Van Hyning and Zukoski. (184) As in the borohydride reduction of Au3+ (see above), classical LaMer growth and aggregative growth occurred in consecutive, nonoverlapping periods. The authors concluded that aggregation and coalescence is the dominant growth mechanism in cases when the monomer-supplying chemical reaction is faster than the overall growth process.
A related SAXS study of silver-nanoparticle growth by citrate reduction of Ag+ was conducted by Takesue and co-workers. (187) Under the conditions investigated, growth was accomplished within 10 ms. An initial induction period (0–0.39 ms) in which reduction of Ag+ occurred was followed by a nucleation period (0.59–0.79 ms) in which Ag13 nanoclusters 0.7 nm in diameter were formed. Subsequently, growth occurred by aggregation of the Ag13 nanoclusters. Again, classical LaMer and aggregative growth were observed to occur in consecutive regimes.
We also elucidated a mechanism of silver nanoparticle growth, by reaction of bis(triphenylphosphine)silver(I) myristate [(PPh3)2Ag(O2CC13H27)] and azoisobutyronitrile (AIBN) in the presence of a PHD-co-PVP polymer stabilizer and in a nonaqueous dispersion (see eq 12). (94) The rate of Ag-precursor conversion was monitored by 31P NMR, using the disappearance of the precursor PPh3 and the appearance of the product Ph3P═O resonances. The conversion kinetics were first order in precursor concentration, with a half-life of t1/2 = 3.65 ± 0.42 min, establishing the time scale for classical LaMer nucleation and growth.
Silver-nanoparticle growth was monitored over 70–100 min. Primary nanocrystals 1.8 ± 0.6 nm in diameter were observed to form within the initial 3–4 min, after which a bimodal size distribution containing the primary nanocrystals and distinctly larger silver nanoparticles formed. The primary nanocrystals were consumed over 50–60 min as the larger nanoparticles continued to grow, achieving diameters of 7.3 ± 0.7 nm in this period. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) analyses established the vast majority of these larger nanoparticles to be polycrystalline. The bimodal distributions and polycrystallinity provided strong evidence for aggregative growth (see subsection 4.1 above).
The silver-nanoparticle growth kinetics are plotted in Figure 8, as the mean nanoparticle volume () versus time. Classical LaMer nucleation and growth could account for only the first 10–15 min of growth (3–4 half-lives of precursor disappearance). This period was consistent with the initial burst of primary nanocrystal formation, but not for the sustained growth that occurred thereafter. The data in the range of 15–100 min were nonlinear and, therefore, inconsistent with Ostwald ripening over the entirety of that range. As detailed above, aggregative nucleation and growth exhibits a sigmoidal profile that can be fit by a KJMA expression. However, only the data up to ∼60 min could be fit in this manner (see the black curve in Figure 8). Therefore, we surmised that the growth after ∼60 min was due to Ostwald ripening.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Kinetic data and the eq 13 fit (red curve) for silver-nanocrystal growth. The black curve plots only the first term from the eq 13 fit. V̅lim is the mean volume at the end of active growth (at 60 min). Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Consequently, we fit the Figure 8 kinetic data with eq 13 (red curve), which contains a first term (a KJMA term) for aggregative growth, and a second term for Ostwald ripening. In the second term, the Ostwald-ripening rate parameter kOR is multiplied by a logistic turn-on function to activate Ostwald ripening at time τOR. The parameter ω determines the time width of the turn-on period and was arbitrarily set.
(13)
We note that the later, Ostwald-ripening regime (Figure 8) provides a linear growth in silver-nanoparticle mean volume in accord with LSW theory. (19, 20) The fitted value of τOR was 57.9 ± 3.4 min, indicating the secession of aggregative growth and the onset of Ostwald ripening at that time. A second quantitative measure of the onset time for Ostwald ripening was the minimum in the width of the nanoparticle diameter distribution, which occurred at 60 ± 5 min, in excellent agreement with τOR.
The results established that classical LaMer nucleation and growth occurred from 0 to 15 min, aggregative growth occurred from 5 min to 60 min, and Ostwald ripening occurred from 60 min to 100 min. Thus, the three nanoparticle growth modes each contributed to the silver-nanoparticle size evolution, but in successive time regimes with little overlap. The work described earlier in this subsection demonstrated that classical LaMer growth and aggregative growth occur in sequential or partially overlapping regimes. The work on oriented attachment (see subsection 4.2) demonstrated that aggregative growth and Ostwald ripening occur in sequential or partially overlapping regimes. The presently discussed study demonstrated that all three growth modes may occur in consecutive regimes, and exhibited the sequence in which the growth modes normally occur, as depicted in Figure 3.
Similarly, we studied the mechanism of bismuth-nanoparticle growth, by thermal decomposition of Bi[N(SiMe3)2]3 in the presence of a PHD-co-PVP polymer stabilizer at 180 °C. (95) Primary nanocrystals having diameters of 1.9 ± 0.4 nm were observed to form within the initial 2 min, after which a bimodal size distribution formed, containing the primary nanocrystals and distinctly larger bismuth nanoparticles. The primary nanocrystals were consumed over 75–120 min as the larger nanoparticles continued to grow, achieving 20–30 nm diameters in this period. After 75–120 min, size-distribution broadening was observed, consistent with Ostwald ripening. The early time bimodal distributions evidenced aggregative growth prior to Ostwald ripening.
A representative set of bismuth nanoparticle growth-kinetics data is given in Figure 9. These data were also well fit by eq 13, yielding the curve shown. The sigmoidal portion of the curve is due to aggregative growth, and the later linear portion to Ostwald ripening. For synthetic purposes, the Ostwald ripening in Figures 8 and 9 would be prevented, such that the syntheses would reliably produce narrow diameter distributions and final mean sizes determined by the aggregative-growth process. Indeed, we were able to identify such conditions for the growth of bismuth nanoparticles. (188) The success of eq 13 in fitting the silver- and bismuth-nanoparticle growth data suggest that it might be more generally applied to determining the end of aggregative growth and the onset of Ostwald ripening in other nanoparticle systems.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Kinetic data and the eq 13 fit for bismuth-nanocrystal growth. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
As noted above, the three common growth modes may overlap temporally. A study of platinum-nanoparticle growth by a photoreduction process by Harada and Kamigaito found the classical LaMer and aggregative growth regimes to overlap. (66) A related study of silver-nanoparticle growth by Harada and co-workers seemingly found all three growth modes to overlap to varying extents, with aggregative growth making a small overall contribution. (189) Another study of rhodium- and palladium-nanoparticle growth by Harada and co-workers failed to identify an aggregative-growth component. (190)
4.4 Nonclassical Nucleation in Aggregative Processes
We have argued that the initial stages of aggregative growth may be considered a nonclassical nucleation process. (55, 76, 116, 191-195) We and others have shown that (i) the initiation of aggregative growth can determine the number of growing nanoparticles or nanocrystals, and (ii) aggregative growth is capable of producing narrow final nanoparticle-size distributions from primary nanoparticles having comparatively broad dispersities, (53, 54, 57, 92, 94, 95, 184, 196-198) suggesting that the initiation is a nucleation-like event. Aggregative growth also has induction periods and other characteristics that mimic classical nucleation (see Figure 3). (31, 45-47, 49, 50, 60, 92, 94, 95, 171, 199) This subsection will show that the induction of aggregative growth may either be a nonclassical nucleation, or modeled as one, although the underlying physics is different from that in classical nucleation.
As is well-known from classical nucleation theory, the thermodynamic driving force for crystal growth is the lattice energy or cohesive energy released by assembly of the crystal lattice. The nucleation barrier to be overcome at small crystal-nucleus sizes is generated by the interfacial energy between the crystal-nucleus surface and the phase it is growing within. Because the released lattice (cohesive) energy grows as the cube of the radius, and the consumed interfacial energy only as the square of the radius, growth ultimately becomes spontaneous for crystal-nuclei surpassing a critical size. The lattice and interfacial energies are precisely offsetting at the critical size, indicating that a critical-sized nucleus has an equal probability of growing or redissolving into the growth phase. Classical nucleation is the process of generating critical-sized nuclei through the interplay of lattice (cohesive) and interfacial energies.
For small, primary nanoparticles, substantial lattice or cohesive energy has already been released, and substantial interfacial (surface) energy already paid for, prior to the onset of aggregative growth. And yet, activation-energy barriers to aggregative growth do exist, for both DLCA and RLCA processes, (77) which are necessarily generated by different physical interactions than those involved in classical nucleation. These interactions were identified above in conjunction with the DLVO model, and its use to fit the aggregative-growth kinetics of silver nanocrystals (subsection 4.3). (57, 184) The attractive interactions that promote aggregation are van der Waals forces, and the inhibiting interactions are electrostatic or other interparticle repulsions. One imagines constructing a critical-size aggregate (a nonclassical nucleus) by assembling a sufficient number of primary particles such that the van der Waals attractions and electrostatic repulsions are precisely offsetting.
Indeed, the colloidal crystallization of polymer or silica spheres, which is inherently an aggregative process, has long been used to model classical nucleation and growth. Such studies (91, 96, 100) have allowed the determination of critical-nucleus (aggregate) sizes, and entire nucleation functions (see section 2), although the underlying physics are quite different from those of classical nucleation.
Recent studies have found that prenucleation clustering of growth monomers contributes to crystallization processes involving biomineralization, proteins, and colloids. (194, 195) For CaCO3 crystallization, the average prenucleation cluster diameters were found to be ∼2 nm, or roughly 70 ions in size. (195) Evidence was obtained showing that nucleation proceeded by cluster–cluster aggregation, rather than by individual cluster growth. The nucleation barriers were hypothesized to be due to structural rearrangements within the prenucleation clusters in this nonclassical nucleation process. (195) Similarly, so-called magic-size nanoclusters, such as (CdSe)13, (CdSe)19, (CdSe)33, and (CdSe)34, (200) have long been observed as intermediates preceding the nucleation of colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals. (201-204) The tantalizing suggestion is that perhaps many nucleation processes that were formerly considered to occur by the classical process are actually aggregative.
Finally, we demonstrate in the following section that meaningful nucleation functions (such as in Figure 2) may be extracted from experimental kinetic data for aggregative nanocrystal growth. We will show that the final mean nanoparticle sizes and size distributions correlate strongly with the experimental parameters extracted from these nucleation functions (see section 2). If the initial stages of aggregative growth could not be modeled as a nucleation process, then we could not have determined these nucleation functions, and they would have no correlation with the outcome of experimental aggregative-growth processes. The fact that they do correlate provides strong justification for modeling the initiation of aggregative growth as a nucleation event.
5 The Experimental Nucleation Function
As discussed above (see section 2), the time dependence of the nucleation rate, Γ(t), is the nucleation function. Prior to nucleation, the nucleation rate is zero. During nucleation, Γ(t) rises, then falls, and returns to zero at the conclusion of the nucleation period. Ideally, and typically, nucleation is confined to a narrow, early time window in the overall nanoparticle growth process.
An example of an experimentally determined nucleation function is given in Figure 10. (92) The more extensively determined nucleation functions of Wette and co-workers are slightly asymmetric and may have somewhat flattened tops. (91, 96) However, our nucleation-rate data are fit well by Gaussian functions, and, thus, each nucleation function is defined by only three parameters: Γmax (height), Δtn (2σ width), and τn (peak-center time).
Figure 10
Figure 10. The aggregative-nucleation function (Gaussian fit) for silver-nanocrystal growth. The left and right axes correspond to the critical-aggregate fraction (Fcrit) and the scaled nucleation rate (Γ(t)), respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
We argue here, and in section 2, that control of the nucleation function, or nucleation control, is the key to achieving purposeful control of final mean nanocrystal sizes and size distributions. Nucleation control requires that the nucleation parameters, and particularly the maximum nucleation rate Γmax and the nucleation time width Δtn, be measurable, and purposefully variable. The following subsections describe how the nucleation functions are extracted from experimental data, and how the nucleation parameters are manipulated.
5.1 Experimental Determination of the Nucleation Function
Wette and co-workers constructed nucleation functions for the colloidal crystallization of charged polymer spheres from image analyses of frames captured by video microscopy. (91) They directly counted the numbers of crystallites that appeared in fixed, successive time intervals throughout the nucleation period.
We determined nucleation functions for gold, silver, and bismuth nanocrystal growth by analysis of early time (nano)crystal-size distributions (CSDs) measured by TEM. At the earliest times, the nanoparticle populations consisted only of the primary nanocrystals, which are at the small-size detectable limit for TEM measurement. Consequently, the corresponding CSDs had an asymptotic shape, which tailed off to larger nanocrystal size (or volume; see the black curve in Figure 11a).
Figure 11
Figure 11. An extensive series of (nano)crystal-size distributions (CSDs) determined at various times (inset) in a silver-nanocrystal growth trial. The plots in (a) are an enlarged portion from (b) in the small nanocrystal volume regime, showing only the evolution of the CSDs from asymptotic to bimodal in the first 7 min of reaction. The fraction F of nanocrystals in a given volume bin is plotted against nanocrystal volume. Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
After an induction period, aggregative nucleation was accompanied by the emergence of a peak in the CSD at the critical-aggregate (aggregative nucleus) size (or volume; see the red and green curves in Figure 11a), (55, 79, 140-143) which generated a bimodal distribution consisting of remaining primary nanocrystals and critical-sized aggregates. The emergence of the critical-aggregate peak was due to a burst of aggregative nucleation and a rapidly rising nucleation rate Γ(t) (as in Figure 10), (79, 139) and the survival of aggregates only at or larger than this critical size. Subsequently, the peak for the larger mode shifted to larger volume, as aggregative growth occurred upon the critical aggregates and Γ(t) decreased from its maximum, Γmax (see Figure 11b). Concurrently, the smaller mode shrank as the primary nanocrystals were consumed by aggregative growth.
Thus, the fraction (Fcrit) of the nanoparticles (aggregates) within the CSD having the critical size (volume) rises and falls with the rise and fall of Γ(t). We have proposed that this critical-size fraction Fcrit is proportional to Γ(t). (92) Therefore, a plot of Fcrit(t) vs t is proportional to the nucleation function, Γ(t) vs t. Experimental Fcrit(t) vs t data are plotted in Figure 10, and fit by a Gaussian function.
The Fcrit(t) function must be rescaled to provide the nucleation function. Rescaling is accomplished by determination of N, the number of growing aggregates (aggregative nuclei), which is calculated from the stoichiometric amount of the final phase (in these cases, silver, gold, or bismuth) and the final mean nanoparticle size. Because the area under the nucleation function is N, the height of the nucleation function Γmax is calculated using eq 14. (92) The remaining Fcrit(t) points are linearly scaled as Γ(t) values using the Γmax/(max Fcrit) ratio. The entire nucleation function is then described by eq 15, where Δtn and τn are fitting parameters.
(14)
(15)
In the following subsection, nucleation functions determined in this manner under a range of conditions are analyzed to determine how the nucleation parameters Γmax and Δtn may be purposefully varied. To achieve ideal nucleation control over final sizes and size distributions, Δtn must be minimized, and Γmax purposefully controlled over a wide range (see section 2).
5.2 Experimental Manipulation of the Nucleation Function
The important, early study by Bogush and Zukoski discussed above (see section 4) established that aggregative nucleation and growth is due to the colloidal instability, with respect to aggregation, of small primary nanoparticles. (55) Colloidal dispersions are generally stabilized against aggregation by steric or electrostatic repulsions, or their combination. Consequently, any condition that influences steric or electrostatic interactions between primary nanoparticles may, in principle, influence aggregative nucleation. These include the following factors: ionic strength (varied with salt additives); (57) the presence of polymer stabilizers, ligands, or surfactants; the primary nanoparticle number density (in the dispersion) or precursor concentration; temperature; and solvent. These conditions may be varied to determine their effects on the nucleation function.
In one such study, we determined the nucleation functions (according to subsection 5.1) for the aggregative growth of decanethiolate-capped gold nanocrystals at various concentrations of the salt additive tetra-n-octylammonium bromide (TOABr). (92, 137, 138) The results are shown in Figure 12. With increasing TOABr concentration, Δtn progressively decreased to a minimized value. The nucleation parameter τn (peak-center time) also decreased, indicating increasing nucleation rates with increasing TOABr concentration. Interestingly, the maximum nucleation rate Γmax (peak height) was fairly constant, with all values within experimental error of each other. Thus, the salt additive accelerated nucleation and shrank the time window for nucleation, without significantly influencing Γmax.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Nucleation functions for aggregative growth of gold nanocrystals conducted at various tetra-n-octylammonium bromide (TOABr) concentrations. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The results were interpreted using an electrical double-layer model. The decanethiolate-capped gold nanocrystals were synthesized using TOABr as a phase-transfer agent, (205) and retained residual TOABr in isolated form. (206) Consequently, the primary gold nanocrystals were both sterically and electrostatically stabilized (see Figure 13). The electrostatic stabilization resulted from repulsive interactions between the n-octyl4N+ counterion atmosphere surrounding each primary nanocrystal (the double layer). The increased ionic strength of the medium induced by the added TOABr screened the mutual repulsions between n-octyl4N+ ions, shrinking the counterion atmospheres, and removing or minimizing the electrostatic stabilization. Therefore, aggregative-nucleation rates increased with increasing TOABr concentration.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Schematic depiction of the collapse of the electrical double layer about the gold nanocrystals with a sufficient amount of added TOABr. The yellow region surrounding the gold nanocrystal core represents the thiolate monolayer, and the light-blue region represents the double-layer (the extent of the octyl4N+counterion atmosphere). The octyl4N+ ions are depicted by plus signs, and the Br– ions attached to the gold surfaces are depicted by minus signs. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The nucleation functions in Figure 12 enabled clear predictions about the final mean nanoparticle sizes and size distributions. Because Δtn narrowed with increasing TOABr concentration, so too should the dispersity of the final diameter distribution. That is, the width of the nucleation function and the width of the final size distribution should follow each other. Figure 14a shows that indeed they did, except at the two highest TOABr concentrations, where size control was lost due to the very high viscosities of the growth dispersions.
Figure 14
Figure 14. (a) Plots of the relative standard deviation in the final gold nanocrystal diameter distribution (black circles, left axis) and the time window for nucleation Δtn (red squares, right axis) versus TOABr concentration. (b) Plots of the final gold nanocrystal mean diameter (black squares, left axis) and Δtn (red circles, right axis) versus TOABr concentration. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The nucleation functions depicted in Figure 12 also enabled predictions about the final mean nanoparticle sizes. The final mean size should anticorrelate with N, the number of growing nanoparticles, given that the same amount of gold was used in each trial. The parameter N is the area under the nucleation function, which is the (scaled) product of Δtn and Γmax. However, the parameter Γmax remained effectively constant in Figure 12, indicating that N should be determined predominantly by Δtn. Thus, the final mean size and Δtn were expected to anticorrelate, as shown by Figure 14b. The important conclusion is that the nucleation parameters derived from the nucleation functions determined the final nanoparticle mean size and size distribution resulting from aggregative growth.
In a related study, we determined the nucleation functions for the aggregative growth of bismuth nanocrystals from the precursor Bi[N(SiMe3)2]3 in the presence of various concentrations of the salt additive Na[N(SiMe3)2]. (95) These nucleation functions, presented in Figure 15, responded almost oppositely to added salt concentration as did those in Figure 12. In Figure 15, Δtn and τn varied over small ranges, while Γmax initially increased, and then decreased with increasing Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Nucleation functions for the synthesis of bismuth nanocrystals conducted at various concentrations of Na[N(SiMe3)2]. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The results were interpreted by adapting the electrical double-layer model described above (see Figure 16). We proposed that the initial increases in the added-salt concentration collapsed the double layer, as observed in the previous case, leading to decreased electrostatic stabilization and increasing nucleation rates, as reflected in the increasing Γmax values. We noted that the added salt anion [N(SiMe3)2]– may also serve as a surface ligand, and we speculated that the later increases in added-salt concentration decreased Γmax by increasing the steric stabilization of the primary bismuth nanocrystals.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Schematic depiction of the proposed roles of Na[N(SiMe3)2] in the promotion and inhibition of aggregative nucleation of bismuth nanocrystals. The yellow region surrounding the bismuth nanocrystal core represents the polymer coating, and the light-blue region represents the double-layer (the extent of the Na+ counterion atmosphere). The Na+ ions are depicted by plus signs, and the [N(SiMe3)2]− ligands attached to the bismuth surfaces are depicted by minus signs and N symbols. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The nucleation parameters extracted from the Figure 15 nucleation functions exerted the expected influences on the final nanoparticle mean sizes and size distributions. As noted above, the final size dispersity was determined by the width of the nucleation period, and so Δtn and the relative standard deviation in the final diameter distribution tracked each other (see Figure 17a). Because Δtn was comparatively insensitive to Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration, N was predominantly determined by Γmax. Thus, Γmax and the final mean size were anticorrelated as explained above (see Figure 17b).
Figure 17
Figure 17. (a) Plots of the relative standard deviation in the final bismuth nanocrystal diameter distribution (black circles, left axis) and the time window for nucleation Δtn (red squares, right axis) vs Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration. (b) Plots of the final bismuth nanocrystal mean diameter (black squares, left axis) and the maximum nucleation rate Γmax (red squares, right axis) vs Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
The results demonstrated a primitive form of nucleation control: systematic changes in nucleation functions induced systematic changes in the final nanoparticle sizes and size distributions. The strong correlations between the nucleation parameters extracted from the nucleation functions and the final outcomes of the growth trials provides compelling support for considering the initiation of aggregative growth to be a nucleation-like event (see subsection 4.4).
The nucleation control exhibited for the aggregative growth of bismuth nanocrystals is closer to the ideal situation in that Δtn remained comparatively small, ensuring a narrow final size distribution, whereas variations in Γmax controlled the final nanocrystal size. Unfortunately, we do not yet understand why the salt additive primarily influences Δtn for gold-nanocrystal growth, but Γmax for bismuth nanocrystal growth. The limited results currently available do not distinguish precisely how the additives separately affect Δtn and Γmax. Furthermore, we have not yet investigated how the other conditions (listed above) that influence colloidal stability may influence aggregative-nucleation functions. Rational nucleation control in nanocrystal synthesis will finally be achieved when Δtn and Γmax can be varied separately and purposefully.
6 Summary and Outlook
Our goal in this review is to increase the awareness and appreciation of aggregative growth as a mechanism that may contribute to nanocrystal formation. We believe its synthetic potential remains largely untapped, and we hope to encourage further work in this area. As detailed herein, exciting recent advances in TEM techniques have now allowed aggregative nanocrystal growth and oriented attachment to be directly observed. Methods for collecting and analyzing kinetic data for nanocrystal growth have also advanced rapidly. A variety of kinetic and mechanistic models for aggregative growth and oriented attachment have recently emerged. Aggregative growth is now understood to contribute to many, but not all, (12-18) nanocrystal-growth processes.
The great synthetic potential for aggregative growth is that the nucleation process may be measured and manipulated. The size and time scales for aggregative nucleation permit it to be observed, and conditions influencing colloidal stability allow its parameters to be systematically varied. Nucleation functions in aggregative growth have now been shown to determine nanocrystal sizes and size distributions. (92, 94, 95) Much remains to be learned about controlling the nucleation function, which is the key to nucleation control. The achievement of true nucleation control in aggregative growth will provide a firm mechanistic basis for size control in nanocrystal synthesis.
Author Information
Corresponding Authors
Fudong Wang - Department of Chemistry, Washington University, Saint Louis, Missouri 63130-4899, United States;  Email: fwang@wustl.edu buhro@wustl.edu
William E. Buhro - Department of Chemistry, Washington University, Saint Louis, Missouri 63130-4899, United States;  Email: fwang@wustl.edu buhro@wustl.edu
Authors
Vernal N. Richards - Department of Chemistry, Washington University, Saint Louis, Missouri 63130-4899, United States
Shawn P. Shields - Department of Chemistry, Washington University, Saint Louis, Missouri 63130-4899, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgment
We are grateful to the National Science Foundation for funding our work in this area for the past several years, currently under Grant No. CHE-1306507. We thank our collaborators Prof. Patrick C. Gibbons and Dr. Nigam P. Rath, who participated in these studies. We also acknowledge the contributions of our former co-workers Dr. Heng Yu and Dr. Rui Tang. We thank Prof. A. Paul Alivisatos (University of California, Berkeley) and Dr. Ralph Kraehnert (Technische Universität, Berlin) for approving our use of Figures 4 and 7, respectively.
References
This article references 206 other publications.
1Hughes, E. D.; Ingold, C. K. Nature 1933, 132, 933– 934
Google Scholar
2Gleave, J. L.; Hughes, E. D.; Ingold, C. K. J. Chem. Soc. 1935, 236– 244
Google Scholar
3Ingold, C. K. J. Chem. Soc. 1933, 1120– 1127
Google Scholar
4Melander, L. Ark. Kemi 1950, 2, 211– 292
Google Scholar
5Shoppee, C. W. Biogr. Mem. Fellows R. Soc. 1972, 18, 349– 411
Google Scholar
6Barton, D. H. R. Bull. Hist. Chem. 1996, 19, 43– 47
Google Scholar
7Shakespeare, W. In Macbeth, Act IV, Scene I, Lines 14–15.
Google Scholar
8Reiss, H. J. Chem. Phys. 1951, 19, 482– 487
Google Scholar
9LaMer, V. K. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1952, 44, 1270– 1277
Google Scholar
10LaMer, V. K.; Dinegar, R. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1950, 72, 4847– 4854
Google Scholar
11Sugimoto, T. Adv. Colloid Interface Sci. 1987, 28, 65– 108
Google Scholar
12Murray, C. B.; Norris, D. J.; Bawendi, M. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 8706– 8715
Google Scholar
13Owen, J. S.; Chan, E. M.; Liu, H.; Alivisatos, A. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 18206– 18213
Google Scholar
14Morales, M. P.; Gonzalezcarreno, T.; Serna, C. J. J. Mater. Res. 1992, 7, 2538– 2545
Google Scholar
15Saunders, A. E.; Sigman, M. B.; Korgel, B. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 193– 199
Google Scholar
16Robb, D. T.; Privman, V. Langmuir 2008, 24, 26– 35
Google Scholar
17Drofenik, M.; Kristl, M.; Znidarsic, A.; Hanzel, D.; Lisjak, D. J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 2007, 90, 2057– 2061
Google Scholar
18Bullen, C. R.; Mulvaney, P. Nano Lett. 2004, 4, 2303– 2307
Google Scholar
19Wagner, C. Z. Elektrochem. 1961, 65, 581– 591
Google Scholar
20Lifshitz, I. M.; Slyozov, V. V. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1961, 19, 35– 50
Google Scholar
21Meli, L.; Green, P. F. ACS Nano 2008, 2, 1305– 1312
Google Scholar
22Lee, D.-K.; Park, S.-I.; Lee, J. K.; Hwang, N.-M. Acta Mater. 2007, 55, 5281– 5288
Google Scholar
23Chen, Y.; Johnson, E.; Peng, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 10937– 10947
Google Scholar
24Jana, N. R.; Peng, X. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 14280– 14281
Google Scholar
25Ji, X.; Song, X.; Li, J.; Bai, Y.; Yang, W.; Peng, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 13939– 13948
Google Scholar
26Peng, X.; Wickham, J.; Alivisatos, A. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 5343– 5344
Google Scholar
27Stoeva, S.; Klabunde, K. J.; Sorensen, C. M.; Dragieva, I. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 2305– 2311
Google Scholar
28Thessing, J.; Qian, J.; Chen, H.; Pradhan, N.; Peng, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 2736– 2737
Google Scholar
29Zheng, N.; Fan, J.; Stucky, G. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 6550– 6551
Google Scholar
30Lin, X. M.; Sorensen, C. M.; Klabunde, K. J. J. Nanoparticle Res. 2000, 2, 157– 164
Google Scholar
31Talapin, D. V.; Rogach, A. L.; Haase, M.; Weller, H. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 12278– 12285
Google Scholar
32Zhao, L.; Ji, X.; Sun, X.; Li, J.; Yang, W.; Peng, X. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 16645– 16651
Google Scholar
33Luo, Y. Mater. Lett. 2007, 61, 1039– 1041
Google Scholar
34Qu, L.; Yu, W. W.; Peng, X. Nano Lett. 2004, 4, 465– 469
Google Scholar
35Turkevich, J.; Stevenson, P. C.; Hillier, J. Discuss. Faraday Soc. 1951, 11, 55– 75
Google Scholar
36Chow, M. K.; Zukoski, C. F. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1994, 165, 97– 109
Google Scholar
37Kwon, S. G.; Hyeon, T. Acc. Chem. Res. 2008, 41, 1696– 1709
Google Scholar
38Abe, S.; Capek, R. K.; De Geyter, B.; Hens, Z. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 42– 53
Google Scholar
39Kwon, S. G.; Piao, Y.; Park, J.; Angappane, S.; Jo, Y.; Hwang, N.-M.; Park, J.-G.; Hyeon, T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 12571– 12584
Google Scholar
40Clark, M. D.; Kumar, S. K.; Owen, J. S.; Chan, E. M. Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 1976– 1980
Google Scholar
41Widegren, J. A.; Aiken, J. D.; Ozkar, S.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2001, 13, 312– 324
Google Scholar
42Aiken, J. D.; Finke, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 9545– 9554
Google Scholar
43Watzky, M. A.; Finke, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 10382– 10400
Google Scholar
44Zheng, H.; Smith, R. K.; Jun, Y.-w.; Kisielowski, C.; Dahmen, U.; Alivisatos, A. P. Science 2009, 324, 1309– 1312
Google Scholar
45Besson, C.; Finney, E. E.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2005, 17, 4925– 4938
Google Scholar
46Finney, E. E.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2008, 20, 1956– 1970
Google Scholar
47Hornstein, B. J.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2004, 16, 139– 150
Google Scholar
48Matijevic, E. Chem. Mater. 1993, 5, 412– 426
Google Scholar
49Ott, L. S.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2008, 20, 2592– 2601
Google Scholar
50Besson, C.; Finney, E. E.; Finke, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 8179– 8184
Google Scholar
51Privman, V.; Goia, D. V.; Park, J.; Matijevic, E. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1999, 213, 36– 45
Google Scholar
52Kumar, S.; Davis, T. M.; Ramanan, H.; Penn, R. L.; Tsapatsis, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2007, 111, 3398– 3403
Google Scholar
53Libert, S.; Gorshkov, V.; Goia, D.; Matijevkic, E.; Privman, V. Langmuir 2003, 19, 10679– 10683
Google Scholar
54Look, J. L.; Bogush, G. H.; Zukoski, C. F. Faraday Discuss. Chem. Soc. 1990, 90, 345– 357
Google Scholar
55Bogush, G. H.; Zukoski, C. F. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1991, 142, 19– 34
Google Scholar
56Penn, R. L. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 12707– 12712
Google Scholar
57Van Hyning, D. L.; Klemperer, W. G.; Zukoski, C. F. Langmuir 2001, 17, 3128– 3135
Google Scholar
58Penn, R. L.; Banfield, J. F. Science 1998, 281, 969– 971
Google Scholar
59Penn, R. L.; Banfield, J. F. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 1999, 63, 1549– 1557
Google Scholar
60Huang, F.; Zhang, H. Z.; Banfield, J. F. Nano Lett. 2003, 3, 373– 378
Google Scholar
61Polte, J.; Erler, R.; Thunemann, A. F.; Sokolov, S.; Ahner, T. T.; Rademann, K.; Emmerling, F.; Kraehnert, R. ACS Nano 2010, 4, 1076– 1082
Google Scholar
62Polte, J.; Tuaev, X.; Wuithschick, M.; Fischer, A.; Thuenemann, A. F.; Rademann, K.; Kraehnert, R.; Emmerling, F. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 5791– 5802
Google Scholar
63Finney, E. E.; Shields, S. P.; Buhro, W. E.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2012, 24, 1718– 1725
Google Scholar
64Zhang, J.; Wang, Y.; Zheng, J.; Huang, F.; Chen, D.; Lan, Y.; Ren, G.; Lin, Z.; Wang, C. J. Phys. Chem. B 2007, 111, 1449– 1454
Google Scholar
65Ustarroz, J.; Ke, X. X.; Hubin, A.; Bals, S.; Terryn, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 2322– 2329
Google Scholar
66Harada, M.; Kamigaito, Y. Langmuir 2012, 28, 2415– 2428
Google Scholar
67Njoki, P. N.; Luo, J.; Kamundi, M. M.; Lim, S.; Zhong, C. J. Langmuir 2010, 26, 13622– 13629
Google Scholar
68Yu, K.; Ouyang, J.; Leek, D. M. Small 2011, 7, 2250– 2262
Google Scholar
69Xie, R.; Li, Z.; Peng, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 15457– 15466
Google Scholar
70Biswas, K.; Varghese, N.; Rao, C. N. R. Small 2008, 4, 649– 655
Google Scholar
71Rempel, J. Y.; Bawendi, M. G.; Jensen, K. F. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 4479– 4489
Google Scholar
72Park, J.; Privman, V.; Matijevic, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 11630– 11635
Google Scholar
73van Embden, J.; Sader, J. E.; Davidson, M.; Mulvaney, P. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 16342– 16355
Google Scholar
74Gorshkov, V.; Privman, V. Physica E 2010, 43, 1– 12
Google Scholar
75Daniel, T. R.; Ionel, H.; Vladimir, P.; Dan, V. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 184705
Google Scholar
76Skrdla, P. J. Cryst. Growth Des. 2011, 11, 1957– 1965
Google Scholar
77Skrdla, P. J. Langmuir 2012, 28, 4842– 4857
Google Scholar
78Skrdla, P. J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 214– 225
Google Scholar
79Dixit, N. M.; Zukoski, C. F. Phys. Rev. E 2002, 66, 051602
Google Scholar
80Anwar, J.; Zahn, D. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 1996– 2013
Google Scholar
81Uyeda, N.; Nishino, M.; Suito, E. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1973, 43, 264– 276
Google Scholar
82Levit, A. B.; Rowell, R. L. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1975, 50, 162– 169
Google Scholar
83Murphy, P. J.; Posner, A. M.; Quirk, J. P. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1976, 56, 270– 283
Google Scholar
84Tang, Z.; Kotov, N. A.; Giersig, M. Science 2002, 297, 237– 240
Google Scholar
85Chai, J.; Liao, X.; Giam, L. R.; Mirkin, C. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 158– 161
Google Scholar
86Evans, J. E.; Jungjohann, K. L.; Browning, N. D.; Arslan, I. Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 2809– 2813
Google Scholar
87Parent, L. R.; Robinson, D. B.; Woehl, T. J.; Ristenpart, W. D.; Evans, J. E.; Browning, N. D.; Arslan, I. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 3589– 3596
Google Scholar
88Xin, H. L. L.; Zheng, H. M. Nano Lett. 2012, 12, 1470– 1474
Google Scholar
89Yuk, J. M.; Park, J.; Ercius, P.; Kim, K.; Hellebusch, D. J.; Crommie, M. F.; Lee, J. Y.; Zettl, A.; Alivisatos, A. P. Science 2012, 336, 61– 64
Google Scholar
90Liao, H. G.; Cui, L. K.; Whitelam, S.; Zheng, H. M. Science 2012, 336, 1011– 1014
Google Scholar
91Wette, P.; Schope, H. J.; Palberg, T. J. Chem. Phys. 2005, 123, 174902
Google Scholar
92Shields, S. P.; Richards, V. N.; Buhro, W. E. Chem. Mater. 2010, 22, 3212– 3225
Google Scholar
93Ben-Eliyahu, Y.; Brill, M.; Mintz, M. H. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 111, 6053– 6060
Google Scholar
94Richards, V. N.; Rath, N. P.; Buhro, W. E. Chem. Mater. 2010, 22, 3556– 3567
Google Scholar
95Richards, V. N.; Shields, S. P.; Buhro, W. E. Chem. Mater. 2011, 23, 137– 144
Google Scholar
96Herlach, D. M.; Klassen, I.; Wette, P.; Holland-Moritz, D. J. Phys.–Condens. Matter 2010, 22, 153101
Google Scholar
97Wette, P.; Engelbrecht, A.; Salh, R.; Klassen, I.; Menke, D.; Herlach, D. M.; Roth, S. V.; Schope, H. J. J. Phys.–Condens. Matter 2009, 21, 464115
Google Scholar
98Wette, P.; Schope, H. J. Phys. Rev. E 2007, 75, 051405
Google Scholar
99Gualtieri, A. F. Phys. Chem. Miner. 2001, 28, 719– 728
Google Scholar
100Gasser, U.; Weeks, E. R.; Schofield, A.; Pusey, P. N.; Weitz, D. A. Science 2001, 292, 258– 262
Google Scholar
101Watzky, M. A.; Finney, E. E.; Finke, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 11959– 11969
Google Scholar
102Liu, J.; Nicholson, C. E.; Cooper, S. J. Langmuir 2007, 23, 7286– 7292
Google Scholar
103Bryan, J. D.; Schwartz, D. A.; Gamelin, D. R. J. Nanosci. Nanotech. 2005, 5, 1472– 1479
Google Scholar
104Rauscher, H.; Braun, J.; Behm, R. J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2006, 96, 116101
Google Scholar
105Tobler, D. J.; Shaw, S.; Benning, L. G. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 2009, 73, 5377– 5393
Google Scholar
106Anisimov, M. P.; Cherevko, A. G. J. Aerosol Sci. 1985, 16, 97– 107
Google Scholar
107Wagner, W. J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. 1986, 16, L239– L243
Google Scholar
108Conrad, C. F.; Icopini, G. A.; Yasuhara, H.; Bandstra, J. Z.; Brantley, S. L.; Heaney, P. J. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 2007, 71, 531– 542
Google Scholar
109Leyssale, J.-M.; Delhommelle, J.; Millot, C. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 127, 044504
Google Scholar
110Yau, S. T.; Vekilov, P. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 1080– 1089
Google Scholar
111Galkin, O.; Vekilov, P. G. J. Cryst. Growth 2001, 232, 63– 76
Google Scholar
112Malkin, A. J.; McPherson, A. J. Cryst. Growth 1993, 128, 1232– 1235
Google Scholar
113Malkin, A. J.; McPherson, A. Acta Crystallogr., Sect. D: Biol. Crystallogr. 1994, 50, 385– 395
Google Scholar
114Gersh, O. B.; Eli, R. J. Chem. Phys. 2002, 117, 7732– 7737
Google Scholar
115Hou, Z.-Y.; Liu, R.-S.; Liu, H.-R.; Tian, Z.-A.; Wang, X.; Zhou, Q.-Y.; Chen, Z.-H. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 127, 174503
Google Scholar
116Ong, W. J.; Tok, E. S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2007, 9, 991– 995
Google Scholar
117Grogan, J. M.; Rotkina, L.; Bau, H. H. Phys. Rev. E 2011, 83
Google Scholar
118Williamson, M. J.; Tromp, R. M.; Vereecken, P. M.; Hull, R.; Ross, F. M. Nat. Mater. 2003, 2, 532– 536
Google Scholar
119Witten, T. A., Jr.; Sander, L. M. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1981, 47, 1400– 1403
Google Scholar
120Witten, T. A.; Sander, L. M. Phys. Rev. B 1983, 27, 5686– 5697
Google Scholar
121Kolb, M.; Botet, R.; Jullien, R. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1983, 51, 1123– 1126
Google Scholar
122Meakin, P. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1983, 51, 1119– 1122
Google Scholar
123Lin, M. Y.; Lindsay, H. M.; Weitz, D. A.; Klein, R.; Ball, R. C.; Meakin, P. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 1990, 2, 3093– 3113
Google Scholar
124Meakin, P. Phys. Rev. A 1983, 27, 604– 607
Google Scholar
125Kolb, M.; Jullien, R. J. Phys., Lett. 1984, 45, 977– 981
Google Scholar
126Jullien, R.; Kolb, M. J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 1984, 17, L639– L643
Google Scholar
127Brown, W. D.; Ball, R. C. J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 1985, 18, L517– L512
Google Scholar
128Weitz, D. A.; Huang, J. S.; Lin, M. Y.; Sung, J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1985, 54, 1416– 1419
Google Scholar
129Weitz, D. A.; Lin, M. Y. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1986, 57, 2037– 2040
Google Scholar
130Ball, R. C.; Weitz, D. A.; Witten, T. A.; Leyvraz, F. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1987, 58, 274– 277
Google Scholar
131Lin, M. Y.; Lindsay, H. M.; Weitz, D. A.; Ball, R. C.; Klein, R.; Meakin, P. Phys. Rev. A 1990, 41, 2005– 2020
Google Scholar
132Smoluchowski, M. Phys. Z. 1916, 17, 557– 585
Google Scholar
133Davis, T. M.; Drews, T. O.; Ramanan, H.; He, C.; Dong, J.; Schnablegger, H.; Katsoulakis, M. A.; Kokkoli, E.; McCormick, A. V.; Penn, R. L.; Tsapatsis, M. Nat. Mater. 2006, 5, 400– 408
Google Scholar
134Huang, F.; Zhang, H.; Banfield, J. F. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107, 10470– 10475
Google Scholar
135Zhang, J.; Lin, Z.; Lan, Y.; Ren, G.; Chen, D.; Huang, F.; Hong, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 12981– 12987
Google Scholar
136Zhuang, Z.; Zhang, J.; Huang, F.; Wang, Y.; Lin, Z. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 8516– 8521
Google Scholar
137Maye, M. M.; Zheng, W. X.; Leibowitz, F. L.; Ly, N. K.; Zhong, C. J. Langmuir 2000, 16, 490– 497
Google Scholar
138Maye, M. M.; Zhong, C. J. J. Mater. Chem. 2000, 10, 1895– 1901
Google Scholar
139Prakash, A.; Bapat, A. P.; Zachariah, M. R. Aerosol Sci. Technol. 2003, 37, 892– 898
Google Scholar
140Gusak, A. M.; Hodaj, F.; Bogatyrev, A. O. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2001, 13, 2767– 2787
Google Scholar
141Talukdar, S. S.; Swihart, M. T. J. Aerosol Sci. 2004, 35, 889– 908
Google Scholar
142Lummen, N.; Kraska, T. J. Aerosol Sci. 2005, 36, 1409– 1426
Google Scholar
143Mukherjee, D.; Prakash, A.; Zachariah, M. R. J. Aerosol Sci. 2006, 37, 1388– 1399
Google Scholar
144Wachi, S.; Jones, A. G. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1992, 47, 3145– 3148
Google Scholar
145Halfon, A.; Kaliaguine, S. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 1976, 54, 168– 172
Google Scholar
146Budz, J.; Jones, A. G.; Mullin, J. W. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 1986, 36, 153– 161
Google Scholar
147Xiong, Y.; Pratsinis, S. E. J. Aerosol Sci. 1991, 22, 637– 655
Google Scholar
148Hostomsky, J.; Jones, A. G. J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 1991, 24, 165– 170
Google Scholar
149Eberl, D. D.; Drits, V. A.; Srodon, J. Am. J. Sci. 1998, 298, 499– 533
Google Scholar
150Park, K. S.; Lee, B. W.; Choi, M. Aerosol Sci. Technol. 1999, 31, 258– 274
Google Scholar
151Carlow, G. R. Physica A 1997, 239, 65– 77
Google Scholar
152Seto, T.; Shimada, M.; Okuyama, K. Aerosol Sci. Technol. 1995, 23, 183– 200
Google Scholar
153Beckman, J. R.; Farmer, R. W. AIChE Symp. Ser. 1987, 83, 85– 94
Google Scholar
154Madras, G.; McCoy, B. J. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2003, 261, 423– 433
Google Scholar
155Mantzaris, N. V. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2005, 60, 4749– 4770
Google Scholar
156Datye, A. K.; Xu, Q.; Kharas, K. C.; McCarty, J. M. Catal. Today 2006, 111, 59– 67
Google Scholar
157Voorhees, P. W. Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. 1992, 22, 197– 215
Google Scholar
158Zheng, X. Z. Phys. B 1994, 93, 501– 507
Google Scholar
159Turkevich, J. Gold Bull. 1985, 18, 86– 91
Google Scholar
160Callister, W. D. Materials Science and Engineering: An Introduction, 3rd Edition; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: New York, 1994.
Google Scholar
161Burbelko, A. A.; Fras, E.; Kapturkiewicz, W. Mater. Sci. Eng., A 2005, 413–414, 429– 434
Google Scholar
162Christian, J. W. The Theory of Transformation in Metals and Alloys, 2nd Edition; Pergamon Press: Oxford, U.K., 1981; p 542.
Google Scholar
163Levine, L. E.; Narayan, K. L.; Kelton, K. F. J. Mater. Res. 1997, 12, 124– 132
Google Scholar
164Norby, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 5215– 5221
Google Scholar
165Price, F. P.; Wendorff, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1971, 75, 2839– 2849
Google Scholar
166Yang, C. P.; Nagle, J. F. Phys. Rev. A 1988, 37, 3993– 4000
Google Scholar
167van Osdol, W. W.; Ye, Q.; Johnson, M. L.; Biltonen, R. L. Biophys. J. 1992, 63, 1011– 1017
Google Scholar
168Di Lorenzo, M. L.; Silvestre, C. Prog. Polym. Sci. 1999, 24, 917– 950
Google Scholar
169Yang, J.; McCoy, B. J.; Madras, G. J. Chem. Phys. 2005, 122, 064901
Google Scholar
170Egan, T. J.; Tshivhase, M. G. Dalton Trans. 2006, 5024– 5032
Google Scholar
171Skrdla, P. J.; Robertsont, R. T. Chem. Mater. 2008, 20, 3– 4
Google Scholar
172Typographical errors were unfortunately present in eq 1 (eq 3 in ref 92) and eq 13 (eq 6 in ref 94 and eq 1 in ref 95) in the primary literature, where exp(−kgt)n should have been written as exp{−(kgt)n}.
173Avrami, M. J. Chem. Phys. 1939, 7, 1103– 1112
Google Scholar
174Avrami, M. J. Chem. Phys. 1940, 8, 212– 224
Google Scholar
175Avrami, M. J. Chem. Phys. 1941, 9, 177– 184
Google Scholar
176Finney, E. E.; Finke, R. G. Chem. Mater. 2009, 21, 4692– 4705
Google Scholar
177Derjaguin, B. L.; Landau, L. Acta Physicochim. URSS 1941, 14, 633– 662
Google Scholar
178Verwey, E. J.; Overbeek, J.-T. G. Theory of the Stability of Lyophobic Colloids; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 1948.
Google Scholar
179Stokes, R. J.; Evans, D. F. Fundamentals of Interfacial Engineering; VCH Publishers: New York, 1997.
Google Scholar
180Lee Penn, R.; Tanaka, K.; Erbs, J. J. Cryst. Growth 2007, 309, 97– 102
Google Scholar
181Burrows, N. D.; Hale, C. R. H.; Penn, R. L. Cryst. Growth Des. 2012, 12, 4787– 4797
Google Scholar
182Skrdla, P. J. J. Phys. Chem. A 2009, 113, 9329– 9336
Google Scholar
183Skrdla, P. J. J. Phys. Chem. A 2011, 115, 6413– 6425
Google Scholar
184Van Hyning, D. L.; Zukoski, C. F. Langmuir 1998, 14, 7034– 7046
Google Scholar
185Polte, J.; Ahner, T. T.; Delissen, F.; Sokolov, S.; Emmerling, F.; Thunemann, A. F.; Kraehnert, R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 1296– 1301
Google Scholar
186Enustun, B. V.; Turkevich, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1963, 85, 3317– 3328
Google Scholar
187Takesue, M.; Tomura, T.; Yamada, M.; Hata, K.; Kuwamoto, S.; Yonezawa, T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 14164– 14167
Google Scholar
188Wang, F.; Tang, R.; Yu, H.; Gibbons, P. C.; Buhro, W. E. Chem. Mater. 2008, 20, 3656– 3662
Google Scholar
189Harada, M.; Katagiri, E. Langmuir 2010, 26, 17896– 17905
Google Scholar
190Harada, M.; Tamura, N.; Takenaka, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 14081– 14092
Google Scholar
191Bhimalapuram, P.; Chakrabarty, S.; Bagchi, B. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2007, 98, 206104
Google Scholar
192Hassan, S. A. J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134, 114508
Google Scholar
193ten Wolde, P. R.; Ruiz-Montero, M. J.; Frenkel, D. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1995, 75, 2714– 2717
Google Scholar
194Khan, S. J.; Weaver, O. L.; Sorensen, C. M.; Chakrabarti, A. Langmuir 2012, 28, 16015– 16021
Google Scholar
195Gebauer, D.; Colfen, H. Nano Today 2011, 6, 564– 584
Google Scholar
196Drews, T. O.; Katsoulakis, M. A.; Tsapatsis, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 23879– 23887
Google Scholar
197Matijevic, E.; Goia, D. Croatica Chem. Acta 2007, 80, 485– 491
Google Scholar
198Bogush, G. H.; Zukoski, C. F. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1991, 142, 1– 18
Google Scholar
199Hiramatsu, H.; Osterloh, F. E. Chem. Mater. 2004, 16, 2509– 2511
Google Scholar
200Kasuya, A.; Sivamohan, R.; Barnakov, Y. A.; Dmitruk, I. M.; Nirasawa, T.; Romanyuk, V. R.; Kumar, V.; Mamykin, S. V.; Tohji, K.; Jeyadevan, B.; Shinoda, K.; Kudo, T.; Terasaki, O.; Liu, Z.; Belosludov, R. V.; Sundararajan, V.; Kawazoe, Y. Nat. Mater. 2004, 3, 99– 102
Google Scholar
201Fojtik, A. W., H.; Koch, U.; Henglein, A. Ber. Bunsen Ges. Phys. Chem. 1984, 88, 969– 977
Google Scholar
202Peng, Z. A.; Peng, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 3343– 3353
Google Scholar
203Soloviev, V. N.; Eichhofer, A.; Fenske, D.; Banin, U. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 2354– 2364
Google Scholar
204Cumberland, S. L.; Hanif, K. M.; Javier, A.; Khitrov, G. A.; Strouse, G. F.; Woessner, S. M.; Yun, C. S. Chem. Mater. 2002, 14, 1576– 1584
Google Scholar
205Brust, M.; Walker, M.; Bethell, D.; Schiffrin, D. J.; Whyman, R. J. Chem. Soc.–Chem. Commun 1994, 801– 802
Google Scholar
206Waters, C. A.; Mills, A. J.; Johnson, K. A.; Schiffrin, D. J. Chem. Commun. 2003, 540– 541
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
17
Mentioning
465
Contrasting
1
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 441 publications.
Yinchuan Wang, Jianfeng Qiu, Hongjin Xue, Guiyong Xiao, Yupeng Lu. Temporal and Thermal Effects on the Microstructural and Compositional Evolution of Ultralong Flexible Hydroxyapatite Nanofibers. Crystal Growth & Design 2024, Article ASAP.
Shin Hum Cho, Do Yoon Park, Gi Yong Park, Kevin M. Roccapriore. Electromagnetically Porous Infrared Plasmonic F,Sn-Doped In2O3 Semiconductor Nanocrystals for Infrared Optoelectronic Sensors. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2024, 7 (13) , 15046-15056. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.4c01711
Panzhen Li, Zhe Huang, Jin Yang, Chenhe Zhang, Siwei Tang, Yunzhu Ma, Wensheng Liu. Optimizing Silver Paste Conductivity with Controlled Convection for Nanowrinkle Growth. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2024, 16 (26) , 34181-34191. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c07047
Sang-Jo Lee, Jiwhan Kim, Jahar Dey, Kyeong Sik Jin, Sung-Min Choi. Nanoparticle Superlattices Driven by Linker-Mediated Covalent Bonding Interaction. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2024, 15 (25) , 6691-6698. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.4c01469
Cristina Ruiz-Agudo, Helmut Cölfen. Exploring the Potential of Nonclassical Crystallization Pathways to Advance Cementitious Materials. Chemical Reviews 2024, 124 (12) , 7538-7618. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.3c00259
Jyoti Sinha, Leonidas Gallis, Jan-Willem J. Clerix, Marleen van der Veen, Jerome Innocent, Andrea Illiberi, Michael Givens, Laura Nyns, Annelies Delabie. Low-Temperature Dechlorosilylation Chemistry for Area-Selective Deposition of Ge2Sb2Te5 and Its Mechanism in Nanopatterns. Chemistry of Materials 2024, 36 (12) , 5943-5952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.4c00286
Akira Yoko, Yuki Omura, Kakeru Ninomiya, Maiko Nishibori, Tomoki Fujita, Hidetaka Kasai, Eiji Nishibori, Nobutaka Chiba, Gimyeong Seong, Takaaki Tomai, Tadafumi Adschiri. Fusion Growth and Extraordinary Distortion of Ultrasmall Metal Oxide Nanoparticles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2024, 146 (23) , 16324-16331. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c05106
Soren F. Sandeno, Sebastian M. Krajewski, Ryan A. Beck, Werner Kaminsky, Xiaosong Li, Brandi M. Cossairt. Synthesis and Single Crystal X-ray Diffraction Structure of an Indium Arsenide Nanocluster. ACS Central Science 2024, 10 (3) , 744-751. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.3c01451
Xiang Li, Xueqian Wang, Li Yuan, Langlang Wang, Yixing Ma, Rui Cao, Yibing Xie, Yiran Xiong, Ping Ning. Cu/Biochar Bifunctional Catalytic Removal of COS and H2S:H2O Dissociation and CuO Anchoring Enhanced by Pyridine N. Environmental Science & Technology 2024, 58 (10) , 4802-4811. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.3c08914
Qi Li, Jia-Qi Chen, Mingzhou Wang, Xiaomeng Liu, Xiaocheng Liu, Jing Wang, Yang Mu. Ammonium Disrupts Vivianite Crystal Hydration to Enhance Crystallization Rate for Phosphorus Recovery. ACS ES&T Engineering 2024, 4 (3) , 728-736. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestengg.3c00459
Rui Hua Jeff Xu, Logan P. Keating, Ajit Vikram, Moonsub Shim, Paul J. A. Kenis. Understanding Hot Injection Quantum Dot Synthesis Outcomes Using Automated High-Throughput Experiment Platforms and Machine Learning. Chemistry of Materials 2024, 36 (3) , 1513-1525. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.3c02751
Luca Terribili, Remi Rateau, Adrienn M. Szucs, Melanie Maddin, Juan Diego Rodriguez-Blanco. Impact of Rare Earth Elements on CaCO3 Crystallization: Insights into Kinetics, Mechanisms, and Crystal Morphology. Crystal Growth & Design 2024, 24 (2) , 632-645. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c00858
Hairong Zhao, Yixi Wang, Chengjie Wang, Anil Kumar Bandela, Udayabhaskararao Thumu. Dissolution-Dictated Recrystallization in Cesium Lead Halide Perovskites and Size Engineering in δ-CsPbI3 Nanostructures. Crystal Growth & Design 2023, 23 (10) , 7412-7423. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c00817
Yusai Zhou, Kai Liu, Hongjie Zhang. Biomimetic Mineralization: From Microscopic to Macroscopic Materials and Their Biomedical Applications. ACS Applied Bio Materials 2023, 6 (9) , 3516-3531. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsabm.3c00109
Stefan Borsley, William Edwards, Ioulia K. Mati, Guillaume Poss, Marta Diez-Castellnou, Nicolas Marro, Euan R. Kay. A General One-Step Synthesis of Alkanethiyl-Stabilized Gold Nanoparticles with Control over Core Size and Monolayer Functionality. Chemistry of Materials 2023, 35 (15) , 6168-6177. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.3c01506
Azzaya Khasbaatar, Zhuang Xu, Jong-Hoon Lee, Gonzalo Campillo-Alvarado, Changhyun Hwang, Brandon N. Onusaitis, Ying Diao. From Solution to Thin Film: Molecular Assembly of π-Conjugated Systems and Impact on (Opto)electronic Properties. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (13) , 8395-8487. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00905
Hao A. Nguyen, Grant Dixon, Florence Y. Dou, Shaun Gallagher, Stephen Gibbs, Dylan M. Ladd, Emanuele Marino, Justin C. Ondry, James P. Shanahan, Eugenia S. Vasileiadou, Stephen Barlow, Daniel R. Gamelin, David S. Ginger, David M. Jonas, Mercouri G. Kanatzidis, Seth R. Marder, Daniel Morton, Christopher B. Murray, Jonathan S. Owen, Dmitri V. Talapin, Michael F. Toney, Brandi M. Cossairt. Design Rules for Obtaining Narrow Luminescence from Semiconductors Made in Solution. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (12) , 7890-7952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.3c00097
Rohan Pokratath, Laurent Lermusiaux, Stefano Checchia, Jikson Pulparayil Mathew, Susan Rudd Cooper, Jette Katja Mathiesen, Guillaume Landaburu, Soham Banerjee, Songsheng Tao, Nico Reichholf, Simon J. L. Billinge, Benjamin Abécassis, Kirsten M. Ø. Jensen, Jonathan De Roo. An Amorphous Phase Precedes Crystallization: Unraveling the Colloidal Synthesis of Zirconium Oxide Nanocrystals. ACS Nano 2023, 17 (9) , 8796-8806. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c02149
Roxana M. Calderón-Olvera, Encarnación Arroyo, Aaron M. Jankelow, Rashid Bashir, Enrique Valera, Manuel Ocaña, Ana Isabel Becerro. Persistent Luminescence Zn2GeO4:Mn2+ Nanoparticles Functionalized with Polyacrylic Acid: One-Pot Synthesis and Biosensing Applications. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (17) , 20613-20624. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21735
Xiaoqiu Yao, Ming Jin, Jiang Du, Decheng Wan. Uniform Gold Nanoclusters Supported on Mesoporous Polymer Beads Decorated with Polyaminophosphine Patches for the Catalytic Reduction of 4-Nitrophenol. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2023, 6 (8) , 6653-6661. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.3c00351
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Luis E. Sotelo Martin, Nicole M. O’Shea, Jeremy K. Mason, Ricardo H. R. Castro. Designed Y3+ Surface Segregation Increases Stability of Nanocrystalline Zinc Aluminate. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (8) , 4239-4250. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c07353
Xin Huang, Elizabeth Suit, Jinlong Zhu, Binghui Ge, Frauke Gerdes, Christian Klinke, Zhongwu Wang. Diffusion-Mediated Nucleation and Growth of fcc and bcc Nanocrystal Superlattices with Designable Assembly of Freestanding 3D Supercrystals. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (8) , 4500-4507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c11120
Jafar Afshani, Ariel Perez Mellor, Thomas Bürgi, Hans Hagemann. Crystallization of SrAl12O19 Nanocrystals from Amorphous Submicrometer Particles. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (45) , 19336-19345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04284
Panchao Zhao, Qigao Cao, Wei Yi, Xiaodong Hao, Jigang Li, Bosheng Zhang, Long Huang, Yujie Huang, Yunbo Jiang, Bingshe Xu, Zhiwei Shan, Jialin Chen. Facile and General Method to Synthesize Pt-Based High-Entropy-Alloy Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2022, 16 (9) , 14017-14028. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c03818
Walid Dachraoui, Maryna I. Bodnarchuk, Rolf Erni. Direct Imaging of the Atomic Mechanisms Governing the Growth and Shape of Bimetallic Pt–Pd Nanocrystals by In Situ Liquid Cell STEM. ACS Nano 2022, 16 (9) , 14198-14209. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c04291
Narayan Pradhan. Growth of Lead Halide Perovskite Nanocrystals: Still in Mystery. ACS Physical Chemistry Au 2022, 2 (4) , 268-276. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphyschemau.2c00001
Jonathan De Roo. Chemical Considerations for Colloidal Nanocrystal Synthesis. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (13) , 5766-5779. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c01058
Yan Wang, Sai Li, Yanchao Liu, Jiajun Zheng, Xiaobo Sun, Yanze Du, Zhiping Liu, Bo Qin, Wenlin Li, Guangshuai Wang, Meng Pan, Ruifeng Li. Hierarchical ZSM-5 Zeolite Fabricated with Loosely Nanocrystallite Aggregates without Secondary Template. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (25) , 9136-9148. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c00854
Adriana A. Almeida, Rodrigo M. M. Santos, Marinalva A. Alves Rosa, Sandra H. Pulcinelli, Vanderley M. John, Celso V. Santilli. MgAl-Layered Double Hydroxide Nanoparticles as Smart Nanofillers To Control the Rheological Properties and the Residual Porosity of Cement-Based Materials. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (6) , 7896-7907. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c00957
Siyu Zhou, Chenxiao Wang, Younan Xia. Polyol Synthesis of Pd Icosahedral Nanocrystals: Insights into the Growth Mechanism and Size Control. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (11) , 5065-5073. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c00397
Yi Zhang, Zhaopeng Cao, Hai Zhang, Chaoran Luan, Xiaoqin Chen, Yang Li, Yusha Yang, Yan Li, Jianrong Zeng, Kui Yu. Room-Temperature Evolution of Ternary CdTeS Magic-Size Clusters Exhibiting Sharp Absorption Peaking at 381 nm. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2022, 13 (22) , 4941-4948. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c00884
Zhen Xiao, Linlin Zhang, Vicki L. Colvin, Qingbo Zhang, Gang Bao. Synthesis and Application of Magnetic Nanocrystal Clusters. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (22) , 7613-7625. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c04879
James Cassidy, Dulanjan Harankahage, Jack Ojile, Dmitry Porotnikov, Lexie Walker, Michael Montemurri, Bianca S. L. Narvaez, Dmitriy Khon, Malcolm D. E. Forbes, Mikhail Zamkov. Shape Control of Colloidal Semiconductor Nanocrystals through Thermodynamically Driven Aggregative Growth. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (5) , 2484-2494. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c00265
Haoyang Fu, Xing Gao, Xin Zhang, Lan Ling. Recent Advances in Nonclassical Crystallization: Fundamentals, Applications, and Challenges. Crystal Growth & Design 2022, 22 (2) , 1476-1499. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.1c01084
Tianfu Song, Huanyu Lei, Feng Cai, Yu Kang, Haifeng Yu, Liqun Zhang. Supramolecular Cation−π Interaction Enhances Molecular Solar Thermal Fuel. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2022, 14 (1) , 1940-1949. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c19819
Suman Bera, Rakesh Kumar Behera, Samrat Das Adhikari, Amit K. Guria, Narayan Pradhan. Equilibriums in Formation of Lead Halide Perovskite Nanocrystals. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (49) , 11824-11833. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c03461
Heejae Lee, Seonghoon Lee. Gram-Scale Synthesis of Core–Gradient Shell CdSe/Cd1–xZnxSe1–ySy/ZnS Quantum Dots with R/G/B Emission Using Eco-Friendly Hydrolyzed Cooking Oils: Implications for Display Applications. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2021, 4 (11) , 11573-11581. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.1c02038
Woonhyuk Baek, Hogeun Chang, Megalamane S. Bootharaju, Jeong Hyun Kim, Sungjun Park, Taeghwan Hyeon. Recent Advances and Prospects in Colloidal Nanomaterials. JACS Au 2021, 1 (11) , 1849-1859. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.1c00339
James C. Sadighian, Cathy Y. Wong. Just Scratching the Surface: In Situ and Surface-Specific Characterization of Perovskite Nanocrystal Growth. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (38) , 20772-20782. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c06582
Xuefang Zheng, Zhanquan Liu, Qi Lian, Han Liu, Li Chen, Liya Zhou, Yanjun Jiang, Jing Gao. Preparation of Flower-like NiMnO3 as Oxidase Mimetics for Colorimetric Detection of Hydroquinone. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2021, 9 (38) , 12766-12778. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c03180
Javier Vela. Divide and Conquer: In Reporting Materials Syntheses, Moles and Concentrations Are Best. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (15) , 5823-5824. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c02270
Sumit Kumar Dutta, Suman Bera, Narayan Pradhan. Why Is Making Epitaxially Grown All Inorganic Perovskite–Chalcogenide Nanocrystal Heterostructures Challenging? Some Facts and Some Strategies. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (11) , 3868-3877. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01000
Jincymol Kappen, S. Abraham John. Formation of Mercury Droplets at Ambient Conditions through the Interaction of Hg(II) with Graphene Quantum Dots. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (11) , 7834-7843. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.1c00324
Yeqing Wang, Chengtao Wang, Lingxiang Wang, Liang Wang, Feng-Shou Xiao. Zeolite Fixed Metal Nanoparticles: New Perspective in Catalysis. Accounts of Chemical Research 2021, 54 (11) , 2579-2590. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00074
Zhe Wang, Tinghui Wang, Chunchun Zhang, Meng Zhang, Xiaoqin Chen, Hongsong Fan, Wen Huang, Chaoran Luan, Kui Yu. Evolution of Two Types of ZnTe Magic-Size Clusters Displaying Sharp Doublets in Optical Absorption. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (19) , 4762-4768. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c00856
Qiu Shen, Chaoran Luan, Nelson Rowell, Meng Zhang, Kun Wang, Maureen Willis, Xiaoqin Chen, Kui Yu. Reversible Transformations at Room Temperature among Three Types of CdTe Magic-Size Clusters. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (7) , 4243-4251. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03412
Li He, Chaoran Luan, Nelson Rowell, Meng Zhang, Xiaoqin Chen, Kui Yu. Transformations Among Colloidal Semiconductor Magic-Size Clusters. Accounts of Chemical Research 2021, 54 (4) , 776-786. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00702
Yuming Xi, Yangcheng Lu. Interpretation on a Nonclassical Crystallization Route of Prussian White Nanocrystal Preparation. Crystal Growth & Design 2021, 21 (2) , 1086-1092. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.0c01409
Vanessa Leffler, Sascha Ehlert, Beate Förster, Martin Dulle, Stephan Förster. Nanoparticle Heat-Up Synthesis: In Situ X-ray Diffraction and Extension from Classical to Nonclassical Nucleation and Growth Theory. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (1) , 840-856. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c07359
Bing Chen, Yuan Wang, Yang Guo, Peng Shi, Feng Wang. NaYbF4@NaYF4 Nanoparticles: Controlled Shell Growth and Shape-Dependent Cellular Uptake. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (2) , 2327-2335. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c20757
De Zhang, Lisha Tang, Jie Chen, Zhexiang Tang, Pei Liang, Youyi Huang, Minhui Cao, Mingqiang Zou, Dejiang Ni, Jinlei Chen, Zhi Yu, Shangzhong Jin. Controllable Self-Assembly of SERS Hotspots in Liquid Environment. Langmuir 2021, 37 (2) , 939-948. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c03323
Chenghui Xia, Adrian Pedrazo-Tardajos, Da Wang, Johannes D. Meeldijk, Hans C. Gerritsen, Sara Bals, Celso de Mello Donega. Seeded Growth Combined with Cation Exchange for the Synthesis of Anisotropic Cu2–xS/ZnS, Cu2–xS, and CuInS2 Nanorods. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (1) , 102-116. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c02817
Petar Bibulić, Igor Rončević, Mario Špadina, Ivana Biljan, Hrvoj Vančik. Isothermal and Isoconversional Modeling of Solid-State Nitroso Polymerization. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2020, 124 (51) , 10726-10735. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.0c08382
Zhiguo Qin, Bo Chen, Yu Mao, Chu Shi, Yan Li, Xiao Huang, Fang Yang, Ning Gu. Achieving Ultrasmall Prussian Blue Nanoparticles as High-Performance Biomedical Agents with Multifunctions. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (51) , 57382-57390. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c18357
Serena Busatto, Mariska de Ruiter, Johann T. B. H. Jastrzebski, Wiebke Albrecht, Valerio Pinchetti, Sergio Brovelli, Sara Bals, Marc-Etienne Moret, Celso de Mello Donega. Luminescent Colloidal InSb Quantum Dots from In Situ Generated Single-Source Precursor. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (10) , 13146-13160. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c04744
James Cassidy, Cole Ellison, Jacob Bettinger, Mingrui Yang, Pavel Moroz, Mikhail Zamkov. Enabling Narrow Emission Line Widths in Colloidal Nanocrystals through Coalescence Growth. Chemistry of Materials 2020, 32 (17) , 7524-7534. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c02874
Dylan Suvlu, Mohsen Farshad, Jayendran C. Rasaiah. Nanocluster Growth and Coalescence Modulated by Ligands. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (31) , 17340-17346. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c04459
Yi-Hsin Liu, Ho-Ying Chen, Hsiu-Fang Fan, Yu-Hsien Chen, Fudong Wang. Unique Growth Pathway in Solution–Solid–Solid Nanowires: Cubic to Hexagonal Phase Transformation. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (29) , 18441-18448. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c02302
Baodong Du, Yan Mo, Hongfei Jin, Xiran Li, Yanyu Qu, De Li, Bokai Cao, Xiaobo Jia, Yang Lu, Yong Chen. Radially Microstructural Design of LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2 Cathode Material toward Long-Term Cyclability and High Rate Capability at High Voltage. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2020, 3 (7) , 6657-6669. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c00803
Philippe B. Green, Pournima Narayanan, Ziqi Li, Philip Sohn, Christian J. Imperiale, Mark W.B. Wilson. Controlling Cluster Intermediates Enables the Synthesis of Small PbS Nanocrystals with Narrow Ensemble Line Widths. Chemistry of Materials 2020, 32 (9) , 4083-4094. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c00984
Bappaditya Roy, Satyajit Pal, Thimmaiah Govindaraju. Intrinsic Role of Molecular Architectonics in Enhancing the Catalytic Activity of Lead in Glucose Hydrolysis. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (12) , 14057-14063. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c01803
Meng Chen, Chaoran Luan, Meng Zhang, Nelson Rowell, Maureen Willis, Chunchun Zhang, Shanling Wang, Xiaohong Zhu, Hongsong Fan, Wen Huang, Kui Yu, Bin Liang. Evolution of CdTe Magic-Size Clusters with Single Absorption Doublet Assisted by Adding Small Molecules during Prenucleation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2020, 11 (6) , 2230-2240. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c00258
Heidemarie Elisabeth Embrechts, Siqi Zhang, Rainer Hock, Wolfgang Peukert, Monica Distaso. Observing Oriented Attachment during Mesocrystal Growth with in Situ Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS). Crystal Growth & Design 2020, 20 (2) , 1266-1275. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.9b01523
Shangpu Liu, Qiyu Yu, Chunchun Zhang, Meng Zhang, Nelson Rowell, Hongsong Fan, Wen Huang, Kui Yu, Bin Liang. Transformation of ZnS Precursor Compounds to Magic-Size Clusters Exhibiting Optical Absorption Peaking at 269 nm. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2020, 11 (1) , 75-82. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.9b02999
Dhruba K. Pattadar, Francis P. Zamborini. Effect of Size, Coverage, and Dispersity on the Potential-Controlled Ostwald Ripening of Metal Nanoparticles. Langmuir 2019, 35 (50) , 16416-16426. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.9b02421
Mohsen Farshad, Dylan Suvlu, Jayendran C. Rasaiah. Ligand-Mediated Nanocluster Formation with Classical and Autocatalytic Growth. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (49) , 29954-29963. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07683
Michal Strach, Valeria Mantella, James R. Pankhurst, Pranit Iyengar, Anna Loiudice, Shubhajit Das, Clémence Corminboeuf, Wouter van Beek, Raffaella Buonsanti. Insights into Reaction Intermediates to Predict Synthetic Pathways for Shape-Controlled Metal Nanocrystals. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (41) , 16312-16322. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b06267
Rida Atif, Aleksej Zarkov, Dane Romar C. Asuigui, Priscilla Glaser, Orlando Stewart, Jr., Sarah L. Stoll. Single-Source Precursors for Lanthanide Diselenide Nanosheets. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (18) , 7779-7789. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b03067
Xuelian Chen, Meng Wei, Shaohua Jiang, Stephan Förster. Two Growth Mechanisms of Thiol-Capped Gold Nanoparticles Controlled by Ligand Chemistry. Langmuir 2019, 35 (37) , 12130-12138. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.9b01864
Tomasz K. Piskorz, Cristian Gobbo, Siewert J. Marrink, Steven De Feyter, Alex H. de Vries, Jan H. van Esch. Nucleation Mechanisms of Self-Assembled Physisorbed Monolayers on Graphite. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (28) , 17510-17520. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b01234
Zhaoyi Dai, Fangfu Zhang, Amy T. Kan, Gedeng Ruan, Fei Yan, Narayan Bhandari, Zhang Zhang, Ya Liu, Alex Yi-Tsung Lu, Guannan Deng, Mason B. Tomson. Two-Stage Model Reveals Barite Crystallization Kinetics from Solution Turbidity. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (25) , 10864-10874. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01707
King C. Lai, Yong Han, Peter Spurgeon, Wenyu Huang, Patricia A. Thiel, Da-Jiang Liu, James W. Evans. Reshaping, Intermixing, and Coarsening for Metallic Nanocrystals: Nonequilibrium Statistical Mechanical and Coarse-Grained Modeling. Chemical Reviews 2019, 119 (11) , 6670-6768. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00582
Xingxing Li, Yu Pan, Hong Yi, Jingcheng Hu, Dali Yang, Fengzhi Lv, Wendian Li, Jinping Zhou, Xiaojun Wu, Aiwen Lei, Lina Zhang. Mott–Schottky Effect Leads to Alkyne Semihydrogenation over Pd-Nanocube@N-Doped Carbon. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (5) , 4632-4641. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01001
Hogeun Chang, Byung Hyo Kim, Hu Young Jeong, Jeong Hee Moon, Minwoo Park, Kwangsoo Shin, Sue In Chae, Jisoo Lee, Taegyu Kang, Back Kyu Choi, Jiwoong Yang, Megalamane S. Bootharaju, Hyoin Song, Seong Hee An, Kyung Man Park, Joo Yeon Oh, Hoonkyung Lee, Myung Soo Kim, Jungwon Park, Taeghwan Hyeon. Molecular-Level Understanding of Continuous Growth from Iron-Oxo Clusters to Iron Oxide Nanoparticles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (17) , 7037-7045. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b01670
Alexandra V. Soldatova, Gurusamy Balakrishnan, Oyeyemi F. Oyerinde, Christine A. Romano, Bradley M. Tebo, Thomas G. Spiro. Biogenic and Synthetic MnO2 Nanoparticles: Size and Growth Probed with Absorption and Raman Spectroscopies and Dynamic Light Scattering. Environmental Science & Technology 2019, 53 (8) , 4185-4197. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.8b05806
Shin Hum Cho, Sandeep Ghosh, Zachariah J. Berkson, Jordan A. Hachtel, Jianjian Shi, Xunhua Zhao, Lauren C. Reimnitz, Clayton J. Dahlman, Yujing Ho, Anni Yang, Yuanyue Liu, Juan-Carlos Idrobo, Bradley F. Chmelka, Delia J. Milliron. Syntheses of Colloidal F:In2O3 Cubes: Fluorine-Induced Faceting and Infrared Plasmonic Response. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (7) , 2661-2676. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00906
Putao Zhang, Fu Yang, Gaurav Kapil, Chi Huey Ng, Tingli Ma, Shuzi Hayase. Preparation of Perovskite Films under Liquid Nitrogen Atmosphere for High Efficiency Perovskite Solar Cells. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2019, 7 (4) , 3956-3961. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b05139
Benjamin D. Clark, Christopher J. DeSantis, Gang Wu, David Renard, Michael J. McClain, Luca Bursi, Ah-Lim Tsai, Peter Nordlander, Naomi J. Halas. Ligand-Dependent Colloidal Stability Controls the Growth of Aluminum Nanocrystals. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (4) , 1716-1724. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b12255
Max R. Friedfeld, Dane A. Johnson, Brandi M. Cossairt. Conversion of InP Clusters to Quantum Dots. Inorganic Chemistry 2019, 58 (1) , 803-810. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.8b02945
Han-Wen Cheng, Shan Yan, Jing Li, Jie Wang, Lingyan Wang, Zakiya Skeete, Shiyao Shan, Chuan-Jian Zhong. Electron Dose-Controlled Formation, Growth, and Assembly of Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles from Aurophilic Au(I)–Thiolate Ensemble on Surfaces. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2018, 10 (46) , 40348-40357. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b17941
Mei Wang, Chiwoo Park, Taylor J. Woehl. Quantifying the Nucleation and Growth Kinetics of Electron Beam Nanochemistry with Liquid Cell Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (21) , 7727-7736. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b03050
Dong-Won Jeong, Du-Jeon Jang. Rapid Stepwise Growth of Water-Dispersive CdS Quantum Dots in Ethylene Glycol. Crystal Growth & Design 2018, 18 (9) , 4945-4951. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.8b00249
Attila Forgács, Krisztián Moldován, Petra Herman, Edina Baranyai, István Fábián, Gábor Lente, József Kalmár. Kinetic Model for Hydrolytic Nucleation and Growth of TiO2 Nanoparticles. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (33) , 19161-19170. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b04227
Lucheng Peng, Anirban Dutta, Renguo Xie, Wensheng Yang, Narayan Pradhan. Dot–Wire–Platelet–Cube: Step Growth and Structural Transformations in CsPbBr3 Perovskite Nanocrystals. ACS Energy Letters 2018, 3 (8) , 2014-2020. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b01037
Runchen Lai, Chaodan Pu, Xiaogang Peng. On-Surface Reactions in the Growth of High-Quality CdSe Nanocrystals in Nonpolar Solutions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (29) , 9174-9183. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b04743
Lihua Shen, Hongni Wang, Shengnan Liu, Zhuangwei Bai, Sichun Zhang, Xinrong Zhang, Chengxiao Zhang. Assembling of Sulfur Quantum Dots in Fission of Sublimed Sulfur. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (25) , 7878-7884. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b02792
Lai-Ming Luo, Rong-Hua Zhang, Di Chen, Qing-Yun Hu, Xin-Wen Zhou. Synthesis of 3D Thornbush-like Trimetallic CoAuPd Nanocatalysts and Electrochemical Dealloying for Methanol Oxidation and Oxygen Reduction Reaction. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2018, 1 (6) , 2619-2629. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00329
Jingshan S. Du, Peng-Cheng Chen, Brian Meckes, Edward J. Kluender, Zhuang Xie, Vinayak P. Dravid, Chad A. Mirkin. Windowless Observation of Evaporation-Induced Coarsening of Au–Pt Nanoparticles in Polymer Nanoreactors. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (23) , 7213-7221. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b03105
Naoya Maeta, Hidehiro Kamiya, Yohei Okada. Direct Monitoring of Molecular Events at the Surface: One-Step Access to Flexibly Stable Colloidal Ag Nanoparticles. Langmuir 2018, 34 (19) , 5495-5504. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.7b03870
Haydee A. Dalafu, Nicholas Rosa, Derak James, Dane Romar C. Asuigui, Michael McNamara, Akira Kawashima, Shun Omagari, Takayuki Nakanishi, Yasuchika Hasegawa, Sarah L. Stoll. Solid-State and Nanoparticle Synthesis of EuSxSe1–x Solid Solutions. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (9) , 2954-2964. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b00393
Jiongzhao Li, Huifeng Wang, Long Lin, Qun Fang, Xiaogang Peng. Quantitative Identification of Basic Growth Channels for Formation of Monodisperse Nanocrystals. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (16) , 5474-5484. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b01296
Justin C. Ondry, Matthew R. Hauwiller, A. Paul Alivisatos. Dynamics and Removal Pathway of Edge Dislocations in Imperfectly Attached PbTe Nanocrystal Pairs: Toward Design Rules for Oriented Attachment. ACS Nano 2018, 12 (4) , 3178-3189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b00638
Suvendu Karak, Sushil Kumar, Pradip Pachfule, Rahul Banerjee. Porosity Prediction through Hydrogen Bonding in Covalent Organic Frameworks. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (15) , 5138-5145. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b13558
Ankit Agrawal, Shin Hum Cho, Omid Zandi, Sandeep Ghosh, Robert W. Johns, Delia J. Milliron. Localized Surface Plasmon Resonance in Semiconductor Nanocrystals. Chemical Reviews 2018, 118 (6) , 3121-3207. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00613
Rana Faryad Ali, Byron D. Gates. Synthesis of Lithium Niobate Nanocrystals with Size Focusing through an Ostwald Ripening Process. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (6) , 2028-2035. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b05282
Stefano Lazzari, Pius M. Theiler, Yi Shen, Connor W. Coley, Andreas Stemmer, Klavs F. Jensen. Ligand-Mediated Nanocrystal Growth. Langmuir 2018, 34 (10) , 3307-3315. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.8b00076
Liheng Wu, Huada Lian, Joshua J. Willis, Emmett D. Goodman, Ian Salmon McKay, Jian Qin, Christopher J. Tassone, and Matteo Cargnello . Tuning Precursor Reactivity toward Nanometer-Size Control in Palladium Nanoparticles Studied by in Situ Small Angle X-ray Scattering. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (3) , 1127-1135. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b05186
Jingwei Zheng, Dongliang Jin, Zhiting Liu, Kake Zhu, Xinggui Zhou, and Weikang Yuan . Synthesis of Nanosized SAPO-34 via an Azeotrope Evaporation and Dry Gel Conversion Route and Its Catalytic Performance in Chloromethane Conversion. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2018, 57 (2) , 548-558. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.7b03326
Xi Yin, Miao Shi, Jianbo Wu, Yung-Tin Pan, Danielle L. Gray, Jeffery A. Bertke, and Hong Yang . Quantitative Analysis of Different Formation Modes of Platinum Nanocrystals Controlled by Ligand Chemistry. Nano Letters 2017, 17 (10) , 6146-6150. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b02751
Load more citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
Chemistry of Materials
Cite this: Chem. Mater. 2014, 26, 1, 5–21
https://doi.org/10.1021/cm402139r
Published September 12, 2013
Copyright © 2013 American Chemical Society. This publication is licensed under these Terms of Use.
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
19k
Altmetric
4
Citations
441
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Mechanisms of Nucleation and Growth of Nanoparticles in Solution
July 8, 2014Chemical Reviews
Nguyen T. K. Thanh*, N. Maclean, and S. Mahiddine
Theory, Production and Mechanism of Formation of Monodispersed Hydrosols
May 1, 2002Journal of the American Chemical Society
Victor K. LaMer and Robert H. Dinegar
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of monomer concentration during particle nucleation and growth from solution in a classical LaMer mechanism. (10) The blue arrows identify the nucleation period (zone II). The red arrow indicates the growth period (zone III).
Figure 2
Figure 2. Three schematic nucleation functions a–c having Gaussian profiles (black curve, function a; red curve, function b; blue curve, function c). The width of the nucleation function (Δtn) provides a measure of the time window for nucleation. The maximum nucleation rate is Γmax. The area under the nucleation function is the number of particles nucleated (N). Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of nanocrystal growth including classical nucleation and growth (regime C), aggregative nucleation and growth (regime A), and Ostwald ripening (regime OR). The three regimes may overlap temporally to varying extents, which is not shown here. Nanocrystal nucleation, growth, and Ostwald ripening steps are color-coded in the sigmoidal (S-shaped) kinetic profile as blue, red, and black, respectively. The smallest yellow circles represent atoms, ions, molecules, or small clusters in regime C, and primary nanocrystals in regime A.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of different growth trajectories of colloidal platinum nanoparticles: (A) video images showing simple growth by means of monomer addition (a, left side of panel) or growth by means of coalescence (b, right side of panel); (B) enlarged (1.5×) color images of images shown in panel A. Distinct contrast changes in the coalesced particles are highlighted with arrows, indicating recrystallization. Reprinted with permission from ref 44. Copyright 2009, The American Association for the Advancement of Science, Washington, DC.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Sigmoidal coarsening kinetics and the fit of eq 1 (given later in the text) for 1.7-nm-diameter thiolate-capped gold nanocrystals. is the nanocrystal mean volume at time t, and V̅lim is the final nanocrystal mean volume. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Diameter-distribution histogram of gold nanocrystals taken a few minutes after maximum nucleation rate (τn) was achieved. The crystal-size distribution (CSD) is strongly bimodal, with the smaller-size mode corresponding to primary nanocrystals, and the larger-size mode to the nanoparticles growing by aggregative processes. F is the fraction of nanocrystals of a specific diameter. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic illustration for the process of gold nanocrystal formation by citrate reduction of Au3+ (the Turkevich method (186)). Adapted with permission from ref 185. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Kinetic data and the eq 13 fit (red curve) for silver-nanocrystal growth. The black curve plots only the first term from the eq 13 fit. V̅lim is the mean volume at the end of active growth (at 60 min). Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Kinetic data and the eq 13 fit for bismuth-nanocrystal growth. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 10
Figure 10. The aggregative-nucleation function (Gaussian fit) for silver-nanocrystal growth. The left and right axes correspond to the critical-aggregate fraction (Fcrit) and the scaled nucleation rate (Γ(t)), respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 11
Figure 11. An extensive series of (nano)crystal-size distributions (CSDs) determined at various times (inset) in a silver-nanocrystal growth trial. The plots in (a) are an enlarged portion from (b) in the small nanocrystal volume regime, showing only the evolution of the CSDs from asymptotic to bimodal in the first 7 min of reaction. The fraction F of nanocrystals in a given volume bin is plotted against nanocrystal volume. Reprinted with permission from ref 94. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Nucleation functions for aggregative growth of gold nanocrystals conducted at various tetra-n-octylammonium bromide (TOABr) concentrations. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Schematic depiction of the collapse of the electrical double layer about the gold nanocrystals with a sufficient amount of added TOABr. The yellow region surrounding the gold nanocrystal core represents the thiolate monolayer, and the light-blue region represents the double-layer (the extent of the octyl4N+counterion atmosphere). The octyl4N+ ions are depicted by plus signs, and the Br– ions attached to the gold surfaces are depicted by minus signs. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 14
Figure 14. (a) Plots of the relative standard deviation in the final gold nanocrystal diameter distribution (black circles, left axis) and the time window for nucleation Δtn (red squares, right axis) versus TOABr concentration. (b) Plots of the final gold nanocrystal mean diameter (black squares, left axis) and Δtn (red circles, right axis) versus TOABr concentration. Reprinted with permission from ref 92. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Nucleation functions for the synthesis of bismuth nanocrystals conducted at various concentrations of Na[N(SiMe3)2]. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Schematic depiction of the proposed roles of Na[N(SiMe3)2] in the promotion and inhibition of aggregative nucleation of bismuth nanocrystals. The yellow region surrounding the bismuth nanocrystal core represents the polymer coating, and the light-blue region represents the double-layer (the extent of the Na+ counterion atmosphere). The Na+ ions are depicted by plus signs, and the [N(SiMe3)2]− ligands attached to the bismuth surfaces are depicted by minus signs and N symbols. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Figure 17
Figure 17. (a) Plots of the relative standard deviation in the final bismuth nanocrystal diameter distribution (black circles, left axis) and the time window for nucleation Δtn (red squares, right axis) vs Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration. (b) Plots of the final bismuth nanocrystal mean diameter (black squares, left axis) and the maximum nucleation rate Γmax (red squares, right axis) vs Na[N(SiMe3)2] concentration. Reprinted with permission from ref 95. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
Partners
1155 Sixteenth Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20036
Copyright © 2024
American Chemical Society
About
About ACS Publications
ACS & Open Access
ACS Membership
ACS Publications Blog
Resources and Information
Journals A-Z
Books and Reference
Advertising Media Kit
Institutional Sales
ACS Researcher Resources
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Support & Contact
Help
Live Chat
FAQ
Connect with ACS Publications

This website uses cookies to improve your user experience. By continuing to use the site, you are accepting our use of cookies. Read the ACS privacy policy. CONTINUE