<quotes>

[1] "Steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI and BEA) are efficient catalysts for the N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, with ini- tial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K, but deactivate as a result of coke formation."
[2] "A tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) coupled to GC analysis has been applied to correlate activity and deactivation by simultaneous measurements of reaction and coking."
[3] "The presence of extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, is essential for producing active catalysts."
[4] "The nature and dis- tribution of extraframework iron species, the zeolite host, and the catalyst acidity have no significant effect on the initial propene yield, but strongly influence the deactivation behavior."
[5] "FeZSM-5 shows a remarkable resistance against deactivation, while a very rapid and complete deactivation occurred in FeBEA."
[6] "The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA was remarkably higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA (with 3040 times lower iron content), although the residual activities after 400 min on stream were very similar."
[7] "The remarkable yields toward propionaldehyde (up to 6%) have been obtained."
[8] "A major drawback of FeMFI zeo- lites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease of the propene yield."
[9] "The TEOM consists of a microreactor with a high-resolution microbalance that generates real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions."
[10] "The TEOM presents three main advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances: (i) a well-defined flow pattern, eliminating possible (heat and mass) diffusion and bouyancy phenomena; (ii) a very fast response time res- olution (0.1 s); and (iii) a high mass resolution across the entire range of pressure and temperature."
[11] "Steam activation is essential for achieving high catalytic activities, as concluded from the low conversion of reactants and propene yield obtained over the calcined iron zeolites."
[12] "Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are thus responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with nitrous oxide."
[13] "The similar initial degree of N2O and propane conver- sion, as well as propene selectivity (and thus propene yield) obtained over ex-FeZSM-5, ex-FeBEA, and the non-acidic ex-Fe-silicalite further indicates that the origin of the catalyst activity is mainly associated to the presence of extraframe- work iron species."
[14] "The difference in initial C3H6 yield between ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-Fe-silicalite is marginal if their constitution with re- spect to iron is taken into account."
[15] "The essential role of iron in the reaction can be clearly concluded from the significantly higher C3H8 and N2O con- versions over ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-FeBEA, as compared to ex-H-ZSM-5 and ex-H-BEA."
[16] "The initial activity of the syn- thesized Fe-zeolites, expressed as mole C3H8 converted per unit of time and catalyst mass is 23 higher than over the commercial zeolites, while the former catalysts contain 30 40 times more iron."
[17] "Coke formation causes physical blocking of the active reaction sites inside the zeolitic pore system, resulting in a decreased C3H6 yield."
[18] "In general terms, the coking rate in zeolites depends on the acidic sites (number and strength), the zeolite structure, and the reaction conditions."
[19] "The rapid deactivation observed in ex-FeBEA and ex- H-BEA can be connected to the presence of large cavities with relatively small apertures in the BEA framework, espe- cially at the intersection of the channels."
[20] "The rate of deactivation over the MFI catalysts is significantly lower, and can be related to the absence of large cages in this zeolitic structure, since channels and intersections are of similar size."
[21] "The higher deactivation resistance of steam-activated ex-FeZSM- 5 in ODHP with N2O is unclear at this stage, but can be tentatively related to the different iron constitutions in both catalysts and/or the different porous structure associated to the presence of aluminum in the original zeolite framework."
[22] "Ex-FeZSM-5 contains mesopores due to dealumination upon steam treatment, which are absent in ex-Fe-silicalite."
[23] "The more open structure of FeZSM-5 may reduce pore blocking by coke and also to improve transport of reactants and products, slowing down deactivation."
[24] "The activity of ex-FeZSM-5 in direct N2O decomposition is significantly higher than that of ex-Fe-silicalite."
[25] "N2O activation generates atomic oxygen over certain iron species, which is efficiently utilized for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane."
[26] "However, re- combination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 may lead to reaction with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at the operating temperature, resulting in COx."
[27] "This function would partially regenerate the catalyst surface."
[28] "This hypoth- esis would imply that highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have an increased resistance to- ward coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI and BEA) as catalysts can achieve initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. However, these catalysts deactivate due to coke formation.
2.A tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) coupled with GC analysis has been used to correlate activity and deactivation by simultaneously measuring reaction and coking.
3.Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for producing active catalysts in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
4.The nature and distribution of extraframework iron species, the zeolite host, and the catalyst acidity have no significant effect on the initial propene yield, but they strongly influence the deactivation behavior.
5.FeZSM-5 shows remarkable resistance against deactivation, while FeBEA experiences rapid and complete deactivation.
6.Commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, with 30-40 times lower iron content, have lower initial propene yields than FeZSM-5 and FeBEA, but similar residual activities after 400 min on stream.
7.Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) have been obtained in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
8.A major drawback of FeMFI zeolites in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield.
9.TEOM is a microreactor with a high-resolution microbalance that generates real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions.
10.TEOM has three main advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances: a well-defined flow pattern, a very fast response time resolution (0.1 s), and high mass resolution across the entire range of pressure and temperature.
11.Steam activation is essential for achieving high catalytic activities in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
12.Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with nitrous oxide.
13.The origin of the catalyst activity in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is mainly associated with the presence of extraframework iron species.
14.The difference in initial C3H6 yield between ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-Fe-silicalite is marginal if their constitution with respect to iron is taken into account.
15.The essential role of iron in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane can be concluded from the significantly higher C3H8 and N2O conversions over ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-FeBEA compared to ex-H-ZSM-5 and ex-H-BEA.
16.The initial activity of synthesized Fe-zeolites is 23 times higher than over commercial zeolites, while the former contain 30-40 times more iron.
17.Coke formation causes physical blocking of active reaction sites inside the zeolitic pore system, resulting in a decreased C3H6 yield.
18.In general, the coking rate in zeolites depends on the acidic sites (number and strength), the zeolite structure, and the reaction conditions.
19.The rapid deactivation observed in ex-FeBEA and ex-H-BEA can be connected to the presence of large cavities with relatively small apertures in the BEA framework.
20.The rate of deactivation over MFI catalysts is significantly lower, possibly due to the absence of large cages in this zeolitic structure.
21.The higher deactivation resistance of steam-activated ex-FeZSM-5 in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is unclear but may be related to the different iron constitutions in both catalysts and/or the different porous structure associated with the presence of aluminum in the original zeolite framework.
22.Ex-FeZSM-5 contains mesopores due to dealumination upon steam treatment, which are absent in ex-Fe-silicalite.
23.The more open structure of FeZSM-5 may reduce pore blocking by coke and improve transport of reactants and products, slowing down deactivation.
24.The activity of ex-FeZSM-5 in direct N2O decomposition is significantly higher than that of ex-Fe-silicalite.
25.N2O activation generates atomic oxygen over certain iron species, which is efficiently utilized for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
26.Recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 may lead to reaction with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at the operating temperature, resulting in COx.
27.This function would partially regenerate the catalyst surface.
28.Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance toward coke deactivation in N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.使用蒸汽活化Fe-沸石（MFI和BEA）作为催化剂的N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢可以达到723 K时初始丙烯产量高达25%，但这些催化剂由于焦炭形成而失活。
2.使用与GC分析耦合的锥形元件振荡微天平（TEOM）通过同时测量反应和焦化来关联活性和失活。
3.在蒸汽处理过程中生成的框架外铁物种对于产生N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢的活性催化剂至关重要。
4.框架外铁物种的性质和分布、沸石宿主和催化剂酸性对初始丙烯产量没有显著影响，但它们强烈影响失活行为。
5.FeZSM-5显示出对失活的显著抵抗力，而FeBEA经历了快速和完全的失活。
6.与FeZSM-5和FeBEA相比，铁含量低30-40倍的商业H-ZSM-5和H-BEA的初始丙烯产量较低，但在400分钟后具有相似的残余活性。
7.在N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢中获得了显著的丙醛产量（高达6%）。
8.FeMFI沸石在N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢中的主要缺点是由于焦炭导致的失活，导致丙烯产量迅速下降。
9.TEOM是一种具有高分辨率微天平的微型反应器，可生成气体-固体反应期间质量变化的实时测量。
10.TEOM与传统重力微天平相比具有三个主要优势：明确定义的流型，消除了可能的（热和质量）扩散和浮力现象；非常快的响应时间分辨率（0.1秒）；以及整个压力和温度范围内的高质

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
