element not found
element not found
为了改善您的体验，在您同意我们所有网站和应用的情况下，我们（和我们的合作伙伴）在您连接的终端上存储和/或访问您终端上的信息（cookie或对应信息）。
我们的网站可能会将这些cookie用于：
不通过资料收集而判定我们网站上广告的受众
根据您的导航和个人资料展示个性化广告
根据您的导航个性化我们的编辑内容
允许您在我们网站上的社交网络或平台上分享内容
根据您的位置向您发送广告
隐私政策
设定偏好
全部接受
全部拒绝
Search within
Login / Register
Energy Technology
Full Paper
Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane: A Chemical Looping Approach
Dr. Luke M. Neal, 
Seif Yusuf, 
Dr. John A. Sofranko, 
Prof. Fanxing Li
First published: 14 June 2016 https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201600074Citations: 91
Read the full text
PDF
TOOLS
SHARE
Abstract
The current study investigates a chemical-looping-based oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) concept for ethane-to-ethylene conversion. In this cyclic redox scheme, an oxide-based redox catalyst is used to selectively combust hydrogen from ethane dehydrogenation. As the hydrogen product limits ethane conversion, in situ oxidation of hydrogen enhances the ethane conversion and ethylene yield. Moreover, heat required in ODH is compensated by re-oxidation of the oxygen-deprived redox catalyst, enabling auto-thermal operation for the overall process. Compared to steam cracking, CL-ODH can potentially achieve higher efficiency with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. Silica and magnesia-supported manganese oxides are investigated. It is determined that unpromoted Mn/SiO2 and Mn/MgO redox catalysts exhibit low selectivity towards ethylene. The addition of promoters such as sodium and tungsten renders effective redox catalysts with satisfactory activity, selectivity, oxygen carrying capacity, and redox stability.
References
Citing Literature
Volume4, Issue10
Special Issue:Chemical Looping for Energy Technologies
October 2016
Pages 1200-1208
References
Related
Information
Download PDF
Additional links
ABOUT WILEY ONLINE LIBRARY
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
Developing World Access
HELP & SUPPORT
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
OPPORTUNITIES
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
CONNECT WITH WILEY
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room
Copyright © 1999-2024 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.