<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques address these challenges by providing an alternative route for propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with well-defined local structures to establish structure-reactivity relationships, the modification of acid-base properties of catalysts using alkali metal additives, and the tuning of oxygen activity on metal oxides to reduce deep dehydrogenation and oxidation to COx. The design of new catalysts with improved selectivity is guided by the understanding of the active sites and surface reactions responsible for the formation of propylene, COx, and other byproducts. The ratio of the terminal VO to the other two oxygen sites is a key parameter in the catalyst design, and sub-monolayer VOx could provide a high propylene yield. The cluster size needs to be compromised between the activity and selectivity, and the PDH ability should be related to their corresponding valence state. The lattice oxygen is the main active site, and it significantly adds complexity in DFT modeling, where the activity of oxygen depends on the local structure and coordination as well as oxygen vacancy. However, it also provides huge opportunities to tune the oxygen activity to reduce the CC bond cleavage and oxidation to COx.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的背景下，PDH技术通过提供丙烯生产的替代途径来应对这些挑战。为了克服失活问题、增强稳定性和提高循环利用性，正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，适用于氧化和非氧化PDH过程。这些策略包括使用具有明确定义的局部结构的单原子催化剂（SACs），以建立结构-反应性关系，使用碱金属添加剂修改催化剂的酸碱性质，以及调整金属氧化物上的氧活性，以减少深度脱氢和氧化至COx。通过了解负责丙烯、COx和其他副产品形成的活性位点和表面反应，指导了具有改进选择性的新型催化剂的设计。终端VO与其他两种氧位点的比例是催化剂设计中的关键参数，而亚单层VOx可以提供高丙烯产量。需要在活性和选择性之间折衷群集大小，PDH能力应与其相应的价态相关。晶格氧是主要的活性位点，它在DFT建模中显著增加了复杂性，其中氧的活性取决于局部结构、配位以及氧空位。然而，这也为调整氧活性以减少CC键断裂和氧化至COx提供了巨大的机会。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
