<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The conventional production processes of propylene are mainly steam cracking and fluidized catalytic cracking of light diesel, naphtha, and other oil byproducts.329,330 Along with the large-scale revolution of shale gas and the growth of the global propylene demand (which is expected to increase to 130 million metric tons by 2023), on-purpose propylene production, specifically propane dehydrogenation (PDH), seems to be a promising alternative.331 The PDH process is an endothermic reaction, and successfully commercialized PDH catalysts can be categorized into two groups: Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. The reaction is normally performed at around 600 C on Al2O3 supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-Based catalysts are commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH because of their high catalytic activity. Still, they suffer from unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor catalyst stability caused by coke formation and catalyst sintering at high reaction temperatures.277,289,292,332 Thus, significant efforts have been devoted to improving the performance of Pt-based catalysts, generally by doping with additional promoters, such as late TMs and main-group metals (including Ga and Sn) and by modifying carriers.333,334 The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane generally follows the MVK mechanism,221,335,336 also known as the lattice oxygen mechanism. This mechanism holds that reactants with reducing properties react with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and thus form oxygen vacancies on the surface. Then, followed by O2 or CO2 adsorption at the oxygen vacancy sites, the sites can be oxidized or filled with oxygen, forming a catalytic cycle. Besides, in order to break the thermodynamic limitations of the propane dehydrogenation reaction, an oxidant that is added to the reaction feed or system will react with the intermediate species hydrogen or the product H2 to produce water, releasing a large amount of heat.337,338 However, for the ODH of propane, the reaction products are easily oxidized to produce CO and CO2, so the reaction has to be carried out at a lower temperature in order to obtain a higher selectivity.339 Also, propane dehydrogenation is a kinetically controlled reaction, and the activation of the CH bond in propane is usually a rate-determining step, which requires the reaction at a higher temperature.340 Currently, in the PDH and ODH systems, the nature of the reaction mechanisms and reaction pathways on the catalysts remains elusive, and many side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation, CC bond cleavage, H migration, and H2O formation also need to be taken into consideration."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, such as steam cracking and fluidized catalytic cracking, have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques as a promising alternative. PDH is an endothermic reaction that can be catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically performed at around 600 C on Al2O3 supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. However, Pt-based catalysts suffer from unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and catalyst sintering at high reaction temperatures. To overcome these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with additional promoters like late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with well-defined local structures to establish structure-reactivity relationships, the modification of acid-base properties of catalysts through alkali metal additives, and the control of the ratio of different oxygen sites on the catalyst surface to balance activity and selectivity. Additionally, the use of metal-oxide interfaces and the tuning of oxygen activity on oxides are explored to reduce the formation of byproducts and improve selectivity. The development of these catalysts is supported by computational methods, such as density functional theory (DFT) calculations and microkinetic modeling, which help in understanding the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on the activation of C-H bonds and in screening potential catalyst candidates.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          随着工业对丙烯需求的增加和传统生产方法（如蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂解）的局限性，丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术作为一种有前途的替代方案应运而生。PDH是一种吸热反应，可以通过Pt和Cr基催化剂催化，其中Pt基催化剂由于其高催化活性而被广泛使用。然而，这些催化剂存在丙烯选择性不佳、快速失活和高温下因焦炭形成和催化剂烧结导致的稳定性差等问题。为了克服这些挑战，研究人员正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，包括使用晚期过渡金属和主族金属作为额外的促进剂，以及修改载体。这些策略旨在提高稳定性，改善可回收性，并在氧化和非氧化PDH过程中克服失活问题。为了克服失活问题、增强稳定性和提高循环利用性，正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，这些策略适用于氧化和非氧化PDH过程。这些策略包括使用具有明确定义的局部结构的单原子催化剂（SACs），以建立结构-反应性关系，通过碱金属添加剂修改催化剂的酸碱性质，以及通过控制催化剂表面不同氧位点的比例来平衡活性和选择性。此外，还探索了金属-氧化物界面的使用和氧化物上氧活性的调节，以减少副产品的形成并提高选择性。这些催化剂的开发得到了计算方法的支持，如密度泛函理论（DFT）计算和微动力学建模，这些方法有助于理解几何和电子结构对C-H键活化的影响，并筛选潜在的催化剂候选者。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
