<quotes>

[1] "The conventional production processes of propylene are mainly steam cracking and fluidized catalytic cracking of light diesel, naphtha, and other oil byproducts.329,330 Along with the large-scale revolution of shale gas and the growth of the global propylene demand (which is expected to increase to 130 million metric tons by 2023), on-purpose propylene production, specifically propane dehydrogenation (PDH), seems to be a promising alternative.331 The PDH process is an endothermic reaction, and successfully commercialized PDH catalysts can be categorized into two groups: Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. The reaction is normally performed at around 600 C on Al2O3 supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-Based catalysts are commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH because of their high catalytic activity. Still, they suffer from unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor catalyst stability caused by coke formation and catalyst sintering at high reaction temperatures.277,289,292,332 Thus, significant efforts have been devoted to improving the performance of Pt-based catalysts, generally by doping with additional promoters, such as late TMs and main-group metals (including Ga and Sn) and by modifying carriers.333,334 The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane generally follows the MVK mechanism,221,335,336 also known as the lattice oxygen mechanism. This mechanism holds that reactants with reducing properties react with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and thus form oxygen vacancies on the surface. Then, followed by O2 or CO2 adsorption at the oxygen vacancy sites, the sites can be oxidized or filled with oxygen, forming a catalytic cycle. Besides, in order to break the thermodynamic limitations of the propane dehydrogenation reaction, an oxidant that is added to the reaction feed or system will react with the intermediate species hydrogen or the product H2 to produce water, releasing a large amount of heat.337,338 However, for the ODH of propane, the reaction products are easily oxidized to produce CO and CO2, so the reaction has to be carried out at a lower temperature in order to obtain a higher selectivity.339 Also, propane dehydrogenation is a kinetically controlled reaction, and the activation of the CH bond in propane is usually a rate-determining step, which requires the reaction at a higher temperature.340 Currently, in the PDH and ODH systems, the nature of the reaction mechanisms and reaction pathways on the catalysts remains elusive, and many side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation, CC bond cleavage, H migration, and H2O formation also need to be taken into consideration."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, such as steam cracking and fluidized catalytic cracking, have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques as a promising alternative. PDH is an endothermic reaction that can be categorized into two groups: Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts are commonly used due to their high catalytic activity, but they suffer from unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor catalyst stability caused by coke formation and catalyst sintering at high reaction temperatures. To overcome these issues, significant efforts have been devoted to improving the performance of Pt-based catalysts, generally by doping with additional promoters, such as late transition metals (TMs) and main-group metals (including Ga and Sn), and by modifying carriers. The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane generally follows the MVK mechanism, also known as the lattice oxygen mechanism, which involves the reaction of reactants with reducing properties with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and form oxygen vacancies on the surface. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed or system can help break the thermodynamic limitations of the propane dehydrogenation reaction by reacting with the intermediate species hydrogen or the product H2 to produce water, releasing a large amount of heat. However, for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODH), the reaction products are easily oxidized to produce CO and CO2, so the reaction has to be carried out at a lower temperature in order to obtain a higher selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation is a kinetically controlled reaction, and the activation of the CH bond in propane is usually a rate-determining step, which requires the reaction at a higher temperature. Currently, in the PDH and ODH systems, the nature of the reaction mechanisms and reaction pathways on the catalysts remains elusive, and many side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation, CC bond cleavage, H migration, and H2O formation also need to be taken into consideration.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.随着工业对丙烯需求的增加和传统生产方法（如蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂解）的局限性，丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术作为一种有前途的替代方案得到了发展。PDH是一种吸热反应，可以分为两类：Pt-和Cr基催化剂。由于其高催化活性，Pt基催化剂通常被使用，但它们受到丙烯选择性不足、快速失活和催化剂稳定性差的影响，这是由于在高温下形成焦炭和催化剂烧结造成的。为了克服这些问题，人们投入了大量精力来改进Pt基催化剂的性能，通常通过掺杂额外的促进剂，如晚期过渡金属（TMs）和主族金属（包括Ga和Sn），以及通过修改载体来实现。丙烷氧化脱氢通常遵循MVK机制，也称为晶格氧机制，涉及还原性反应物与催化剂表面高度反应性的氧原子反应，生成氧化产物，并在表面形成氧空位。向反应进料或系统中添加氧化剂可以帮助打破丙烷脱氢反应的热力学限制，通过与中间物种氢或产物H2反应产生水，释放大量热量。然而，对于丙烷氧化脱氢（ODH），反应产物容易氧化产生CO和CO2，因此为了获得更高的选择性，反应必须在较低的温度下进行。丙烷脱氢是一种动力学控制反应，丙烷中CH键的活化通常是速率决定步骤，这需要在较高的温度下进行反应。目前，在PDH和ODH系统中，催化剂上的反应机制和反应途径的本质仍然难以捉摸，许多副反应，如深度脱氢、CC键断裂、H迁移和H2O形成，也需要考虑。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
