I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


PHYSICAL REVIEW B
VOLUME 52, NUMBER 8
15 AUGUST 1995-II
j Density-functional theory and strong interactions: Orbital ordering in Mott-Hubbard insulators
A. I. Liechtenstein
Max Plan-ck Inst-itut fiir Festkorperforschung,
D 70506
-Stuttgart, Germany
V. I. Anisimov
Institute ofMetal Physics, GSP I70 E-katerinburg, Russia
J. Zaanen
Lorentz Institute for the Theoretical Physics, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands (Received 15 May 1995) Evidence is presented that within the density-functional theory orbital polarization has to be treated on an equal footing with spin polarization and charge density for strongly interacting electron systems.
Using a basis-set independent generalization of the LDA+U functional,we show that electronic orbital ordering is a necessary condition to obtain the correct crystal structure and parameters of the exchange interaction for the Mott-Hubbard insulator KCuF3 .
According to the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem and its exten- sions,the ground state of an electron system should be uniquely determined by the charge density as well as all other quantities with nonzero macroscopic expectation val- ues, like magnetic order parameters (spin density).
Here we propose that the failure of the local approximation to (spin-) density-functional theory [L(S)DA] in the description of Mott-Hubbard insulators (MHI) is fundamentally related to the neglect of one of these averaged quantities,the polariza- tion of the remnants of atomic angular momentum.
LDA
itself is structured after standard semiclassical mean-field theory (MFT). Although alternatives exist,one would like to see if functionals can be constructed within the limitations of this general framework that are free of the large-scale problems of LDA. As realized long ago,
MFT
yields essentially correct physics if applied to Hubbard mod- els describing
MHI. The reason is that MFT is controlled
by large 5 and not by coupling constants originating in the in- teraction strength.
However,in addition,it appears neces- sary to treat atomic orbital degeneracies on the same footing as the spin degeneracies.
According to MFT,all (non-s) Mott-Hubbard insulators are characterized by orbital order parameters,although these are less obvious than, e.g., spin order parameters because the ionic lattice breaks the rota- tional invariance as well.
On the other hand,the explicit symmetry breaking by the lattice can only cause small (crystalline-field) gaps in the excitation spectrum that are in- dependent of particle number.
In order to obtain the Mott- Hubbard gaps away from the half-filled shell one has to in- voke orbital polarization.
Based on these observations,we constructed some time ago a minimal generalization of LDA (LDA+U), incorpo- rating orbital ordering as well as the notion that both spin and orbital polarization are driven by the screened on-site Coulomb interactions instead of the exchange interactions of the homogeneous electron gas.
We showed that this func- tional is rather successful in the description of a variety of insulating 3d oxides,while it also proved to be of use in the more complicated context of doped MHI.
Nevertheless,we found this functional theoretically unsatisfactory because it invoked the choice of a particular choice of basis [linear- muffin-tin orbital (LMTO) tight-binding orbitals],while re- sults should be invariant under change of basis. Here we will present a generalization of this LDA+U functional that is basis set independent.
The only ambiguity left is the much more stringent physical requirement to choose the "atomic spheres" to identify both the remnants of atomic angular momentum and the screened atomic Coulomb and exchange interactions.
A suitable testing ground for these ideas is the Mott- Hubbard insulators where orbital degeneracy is only partly lifted by the lattice structure.
In these cases, orbital polariza- tion becomes manifest already in the ground state and the basis-set independence becomes a necessary condition be- cause the shape of the charge distribution has to be generated by the electronic theory itself.
Simple examples are the perovskites KCuF3 and K2CuF4.
These compounds are subject to a collective Jahn-Teller like distortion,which is more complicated than the simple tetragonal distortion of the cuprates,involving a staggering of quadrupolar distorted CuF4 units (two short and two long Cu-F bonds) in the a bplanes.
In a se-minal work, Kugel and Khomskii pointed out that this distortion is in the first in- stance electronically driven.
They showed that the eg (x y, 3z 1) orbital degrees of freedom,just as the spins, are subject to kinetic exchange interactions,while,in addition,the spin and orbital degrees of freedom are mutu- ally coupled as well. Orbital ordering is found in their model Hamiltonians involving a staggering of the orbitals in a-b directions (-x z, y z ) and a ferromagnetic ordering of the spins.
Because of this "preexisting" electronically driven orbital polarization,any nonzero electron-phonon in- teraction then leads automatically to the observed lattice distortion.
We will show (for KCuF3) the following:(i) LDA fails to reproduce this lattice deformation.
The crystal re- mains cubic (Fig. 1), thereby establishing that LDA can fail even with regard to the symmetry of the crystal structure.
(ii) On suppression of the terms driving the electronic orbital 0163-1829/95/52(8)/5467(4)/$06. 00 52
R5467
1995 The American Physical Society
R5468
A. I. LIECHTENSTEIN,
V. I. ANISIMOV, AND J. ZAANEN
52 200 100 U[(n}1= 2' X ((m, m"IVIm',m"')n /m), o. +((m, m" I VIm',m'")
(m, m" IVIm'",m'))n, n,},where Varethe screened Coulomb interactions among the nl electrons.Finally,the last term in Eq. (2) corrects for double counting [in the absence of orbital polarizations, Eq. (2) should reduce to E ] and is given by
LDA+ U
100 4
z 0 z Quadrupolar dist, ortion (% of a) Ed,[(n }] = ,'Un(n 1)
2J[n "(nf 1)+ n"(n" 1)],(4) polarization in our new functional,while allowing for spin polarization,the cubic lattice remains stable.
(iii) Keeping the (cubic) lattice fixed, we find a practically saturated or- bital polarization of the right type if the orbitals are allowed to polarize.
(iv) If, and only if, orbital polarization is al- lowed, the electron-phonon coupling yields the correct order of magnitude for this distortion as well as for the spin-spin superexchange interactions.
The basis-set dependence of the original LDA+U func- tional was introduced on artificial grounds.
All one needs is the identification of regions in space where the atomic char- acteristics of the electronic states have largely survived.
This is not a problem for d or f electrons. Within atomic spheres one can expand wave functions in a localized orthonormal basis Iinlmo. ) (i denotes the site, n the main quantum num- ber, l the orbital quantum number, I the magnetic number,and cr the spin index). Although not strictly necessary,let us restrict ourselves to the usual situation where only a particu- lar nl shell is partly filled. We define the density matrix for correlated electrons in this shell,1 fE n mm' ImG,,(E)dE,where
G,.&,
.&,(E)=(ilmo I(E 0) Iilm'o. ) are the ele- ments of the Green-function matrix in this localized repre- sentation,and H is the effective single-electron Hamiltonian.In terms of the elements of this density matrix (n}, we define the generalj. zed LDA+U functional as follows:
FIG. 1. The dependence
of the total energy of KCuF3 on the quadrupolar lattice distortion obtained in calculations with LSDA and LDA+ U functionals. where n =Tr(n, ) and n=n" +n". U and j are screened Coulomb and exchange parameters.
If the density matrix becomes diagonal, n, =n 6', the present rotationally invariant method is equivalent to the ordinary
LDA+U
approach. ' ' In addition to the usual LDA potential,we find for the effective single-particle potentials to be used in the effective single-particle Hamiltonian
H,
V, = g ((m, m"IVIm',m"')n
II
III
+ ((m, m" I VIm',m"')
(m, m"
I VI
m'", m '))n,}
U(n ,') +J(n ,') .The V'sremain to be determined.We again follow the spirit of LDA+ U by claiming that within the atomic spheres these interactions largely retain their atomic nature.More- over, it is claimed that LSDA itself suffices to determine their values,following the well-tested procedure of the supercell LSDA approach:the elements of the density matrix n have to be constrained locally and tl'. second derivative of the LSDA energy with respect to the variation of the density matrix yields the wanted interactions.In more detail,the matrix elements can be expressed in terms of complex spherical harmonics and effective Slater integrals F (Ref. 10) as (m, m "IVIm',m"') =g aI,(m, m', m",m"')F,k E' "' I:p (r),(n }]=E ' I:p (r)]+E I:(n }]
Ed,wn }],(2) where p (r) is the charge density for spin-o electrons and
E"
[p (r)] is the standard LSDA functional.
This follows the same spirit as the original LDA+U functional.
Equation (2) asserts that LSDA suffices in the absence of orbital po- larizations,while the latter are described by the mean-field (Hartree-Fock) type of theory:where Ok2l and 4m k ak(m, m ',m",m"') = g (lm I Yl qI lm ') 2k+ 1q= x (lm" I YkqI lm"') If the Ilm') basis consists of complex spherical harmonics,then 52
DENSITY-FUNCTIONAL
THEORY AND STRONG
. . .
R5469
k ak(m, m', m",m"')= g (2l+1) ( 1) q= k tl k l) / l k l
x(0 0 0/ ( m q m'/
X
I,
m k 1 m For d electrons one needs F, I', and F, and these can be linked to the Coulomb and Stoner parameters obtained from the LSDA-supercell procedures via
U=F
and
J=(F +F )/14,
while the ratio
F /F
is constant (-0.625) to a good accuracy for 3d elements. "' For KCuF3 we find U=7.5 eV, J=0.9 eV. Note that the orbital polarization correction' is automatically included in the present approach as the orbital-dependent effects coming from the parameters
I'
and F .
Let us now discuss our results for KCuF3, using this new functional,in more detail. We used the full-potential scalar- relativistic LMTO method to calculate the self-consistent LDA+U band structure,using the tetrahedron method with 64 k points for the integration over the Brillouin zone.
KCuF3 has the perovskite crystal structure with a slight te- tragonal distortion (c/a(1) while the planes show quadru- polar distortion.The spins are ferromagnetica11y ordered in the planes while the unit cell is doubled in the c direction by antiferromagnetic spin ordering,so that the resulting unit cell contains four formula units.The prime subject of our investigation was the quadrupo- lar distortion in planes, which is directly connected with the peculiar orbital ordering.The total energy as a function of the shifts of the fluorine ions in the CuF2 plane was calcu- lated with the standard LSDA and LDA+U functionals (Fig. 1). The striking difference between the two calculations is that the LSDA solution has no instability against quadrupolar distortion while the LDA+U curve has a minimum at Q=2. 5%%uo of a compared with the experimental value of
4.4%%uo.
It means that exchange-only and lattice-electron ("electron-phonon") interactions in LSDA are not enough to drive the collective Jahn- Teller distortion:the orbital- dependent interaction terms must be included in the func- tional as is the case with LDA+U. It is possible to observe directly the orbital ordering in KCuF3 by plotting the three- dimensional spin density obtained in our LDA+U calcula- tion (Fig. 2). Since the spins are concentrated in the d orbit- als, the three-dimensional (3D) spin density also gives away the orbital ordering (Fig. 2), showing the alternating x z and y z Cu 3d orbitals. We notice that the charge distri- bution changes only very little under the influence of the lattice distortion,emphasizing that this ordering is in this instance of electronic origin.
As expected,the electronic properties come out essen- tially correct. The "Koopman theorem" gap in the LDA+U band structure should give an order of magnitude estimate for the single-particle gap,and we find it to be similar to that in the cuprates (2 eV). Furthermore,the magnetic order- ing is reproduced,and to test the method more rigorously we calculated the magnetic exchange interactions as well. Using the Green-function method to calculate effective exchange
FIG. 2. The three-dimensional
plot of the electron-spin-density distribution in KCuF3 from the result of LDA+U calculation.
Note that x z - and y z -like "d orbitals" correspond to spin density located at the copper atoms,while p-like density corresponds to Auorine ions. interaction parameters as second derivatives of the ground- state energy with respect to the magnetic-moment rotation angle' in combination with Eqs. (1 4), we obtain mm '&mm'm "m'" m "m"' ' (m) where the spin-dependent potentials I' are expressed in terms of the LDA+U potentials [Eq. (5)] for the ith atom in the unit cell,while the susceptibilities are given in terms of the LDA+U eigenfunctions P and energies ek as nkT +n ' kJ,(10) We find that the antiferromagnetic exchange in the CuF "chains" amounts to J,=20.7 meV while the ferromagnetic exchange in the a bplanes is -much smaller (J,b=
0.5
meV), emphasizing the quasi-1D character of this 5= , spin system. This compares quite well with the neutron-scattering measurements,showing the Luttinger liquid nature of the spin system,with the
1D
exchange estimated to be
J,=17.
5 meV and J,&=
0.2 meV.
To appreciate the rather nontrivial nature of these results,it is instructive to consider what happens using other func- tionals focusing on the conditions under which the lattice distortion can occur. In order to find this instability,one needs a criterion like 1 gyJT(Q) (0, where g is the
R5470
A. I. LIECHTENSTEIN,
V. I. ANISIMOV, AND J. ZMV4EN
electron-phonon interaction and yJT is the relevant electronic susceptibility evaluated at the ordering wave vector Q=(m, m, O) in the cubic zone. There is nothing special to the quadrupolar phonons,and in order to find a band Jahn- Teller instability a large enhancement of yJT is needed. It is not surprising that LSDA fails to reproduce the instability (Fig. 1), since there is no anomalous feautre in the LSDA band structure in this regard: KCuF3 would be a paramag- netic metal and two bands (-x y, 3z 1) cross the Fermi surface, which consists therefore of two sheets. Both bands are three-quarter filled and therefore nothing special is expected to happen at wave vector Q. Subsequently,one could argue that the problem of LSDA lies in the treatment of spin polarization;one can imagine that an effective Stoner theory still makes sense, although LSDA underestimates the magnitude of the Stoner splitting.
This can be mimicked by neglecting the terms in Eqs. (2 4) driving the orbital polar- ization,and by taking F as an adjustable parameter.
One notices that if F is taken large enough,both bands are ap- proximately half filled in the ferromagnetic state, and at least a motive is present for finding ordering at Q. We checked this possibility and we find the electron-phonon coupling still too weak to destabilize the cubic structure.
The situation changes drastically if we allow for orbital polarization.
Because U exceeds the bandwidth,the orbital sector is already strongly polarized (as are the spins) before the lattice is allowed to react. Overlooking some unimportant details concerning the coherence of the intermediate states,the well-known rule that electronic MFT in strong coupling maps onto the classical "spin" problem holds also in this case.
In other words,we find the quadrupolar orbital- ferromagnetic spin phase to be most stable (for the same reasons as Kugel and Khomskii ). Obviously the cubic lattice is unstable in the presence of this orbital order parameter.
In fact, despite large-scale changes in the electronic system the deformation is modest,indicating a rather weak electron- phonon coupling.
In summary,a basis-set independent generalization of the LDA+U method is developed and used to investigate the Jahn-Teller distortion and exchange interactions in the Mott-Hubbard insulator KCuF3. We find that orbital order- ing is a necessary condition to obtain the quadrupolar lattice distortion and 1D antiferromagnetism of this com- pound.
We thank S. Savrasov for providing full-potential
LMTO
code. J.Z. acknowledges financial support by the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences (KNAW). 'A. Svane and O. Gunnarsson, Phys. Rev. Lett. 65, 1148 (1990).
B. Brandow,
Adv. Phys. 26, 651 (1997).
E.
Fradkin, Field Theories of Condensed Matter Physics (Addison-Wesley, Redwood City, CA, 1991).
V.I. Anisimov,
J. Zaanen,
and O.K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B 44,943 (1991).
V.I. Anisimov,
M.A. Korotin, J. Zaanen,
and
O.K. Andersen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. 68, 345 (1992).
K.I. Kugel
and D.I. Khomskii, Usp. Fiz. Nauk. 136, 621 (1982) [Sov. Phys. Usp. 25, 231 (1982)].
Nonorthogonality is in principle not a problem since one can use S U2(k)H(k)S U2(k) instead of H(k) in the construction of the functional [S(k) is the overlap matrix].
V.I. Anisimov
and G. Gunnarsson, Phys. Rev. B 43, 7570 (1991).
V.I. Anisimov,
I.V. Solovyev,
M.A. Korotin,
M.T. Czyzyk,
and
G.A. Sawatzky,
Phys. Rev. B 48, 16 929 (1993).
B.R.
Judd Operator Techniques in Atomic Spectroscopy (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1963).
F.M.F. de Groot, J.C. Fuggle, B.
T. Thole,
and G.A. Sawatzky, Phys. Rev. B 42, 5459 (1990).
O. Erikson,
M.S.S. Brooks, and B. Johanson,
Phys. Rev. B 41,7311 (1990);L. Severin, M.S.S. Brooks, and B.Johanson, Phys.
Rev. Lett. 71, 3214 (1993).
S. Savrasov
and D. Savrasov, Phys. Rev. B 46, 12 181 (1992).
A.I. Liechtenstein,
M.I. Katsnelson,
V.P. Antropov,
and
V.A.
Gubanov, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 67, 65 (1987).
S.K. Satija, J.D. Axe, G. Shirane,
H. Yoshizawa,
and K. Hi- rokawa, Phys. Rev. B 21, 2001 (1980).
M.T. Hutchings,
H. Ikeda, and J.M. Milne, J. Phys. C 12, L739
(1979).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do computational methods, particularly density functional theory (DFT) and cluster models, enhance our ability to predict, analyze, and understand the catalytic activity of doped oxide catalysts in alkane activation, and what are the key considerations, challenges, and potential benefits of these approaches in terms of accuracy, efficiency, and the exploration of new catalytic materials?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 