<quotes>

[1] "PDH serves as the important industrial reaction and there have been some review studies, involving the energy analysis of different PDH technologies,11,12 and catalyst preparation methods and development.3,13 Remarkably, Bert M. Weckhuysen and coworkers summarized the catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes (ethane, propane, butane, etc.) on metals and metal oxides before 2014, providing a very comprehensive introduction.4 While newly developed dehydrogenation processes, catalyst design strategies, and new chemistry in propane dehydrogenation reactions have not been well summarized. To date, the number of corresponding research studies has reached up to 2291 and gradually increased based on the Web of Science in the last ten years from 2010 to 2020 (Fig. 3). The rapid developments of dehydrogenation technologies and catalysts urge us to review the progress in recent years. Further understanding on the principles could essentially provide a creative perspective on propane dehydrogenation. The primary focus of the current review will be on the recent advances and developments in the process fundamentals and catalyst design in PDH reactions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the need for catalysts with high-temperature stability, high propylene selectivity, and resistance to side reactions. Researchers are addressing these needs by developing advanced dehydrogenation technologies, exploring new catalyst designs, and employing innovative strategies to regulate catalyst structures and inhibit deactivation. The thermodynamic limitations, particularly the endothermic nature of the reaction and the increase in gas molecules, also pose challenges that require careful consideration in setting optimal reaction conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 烯烃脱氢（PDH）工业丙烯生产的首要挑战包括需要具有高温稳定性、高丙烯选择性和抗副反应的催化剂。研究人员通过开发先进的脱氢技术、探索新的催化剂设计以及采用创新策略来调节催化剂结构和抑制失活，来应对这些需求。热力学限制，特别是反应的吸热性质和气体分子数量的增加，也提出了挑战，这要求在设定最优反应条件时进行仔细考虑。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
