<quotes>
"B-MWW Zeolite: The Case Against Single-Site Catalysis Graphical Abstract Solid-state NMR spectroscopy of hydrothermally synthesized B-MWW reveals that boron is fully incorporated into the zeolite framework as trivalent BO3 units."
"However, this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene. The catalytic inactivity of B-MWW for ODH of propane falsifies the hypothesis that site-isolated BO3 units are the active site in boron-based catalysts."
"In this work, we successfully synthesized stable, isolated framework B(OSi)3 (major, ca. 90%) and B(OSi)2(OH) (minor, ca. 10%) species in zeolite MWW framework and catalytically tested them for the ODH of propane."
"The detailed characterization of B-MWW by multi-dimensional 1H and 11B SSNMR spectroscopy showed that boron exists predominantly as isolated B(OSi)3 units that are adjacent to a silanol group."
"Although B-MWW has a boron loading sufficient for catalytic activity, testing determined that it did not exhibit any ODH conversion of propane over background levels."
"As was shown here and in our prior work, catalytically active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, whereas B-MWW is stable under reaction conditions and shows no restructuring of the boron atoms."
"The difference in boron sites in B-MWW and these other boron materials leads us to the important conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane does not proceed over an isolated BO3 site. Rather, active boron-based ODH catalysts likely requires boron species with some degree of B-O-B connectivity."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts significantly influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The study reveals that the B-MWW zeolite, which contains stable, isolated framework B(OSi)3 and B(OSi)2(OH) species, lacks catalytic activity for ODHP despite having a boron loading sufficient for catalytic activity. This indicates that the presence of isolated BO3 units is not the active site in boron-based catalysts for this reaction. In contrast, catalytically active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these aggregated sites, especially the 1-D edge active sites, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
B基催化剂中活性位点的空间分布和维度显著影响丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中的性能。研究表明，B-MWW沸石含有稳定的、孤立的框架B(OSi)3和B(OSi)2(OH)物种，但尽管具有催化活性所需的硼载量，仍无法表现出对ODHP的催化转化。这表明孤立的BO3位点不是硼基催化剂进行此反应的活性位点。相比之下，具有聚合硼位点并可在反应条件下重新结构的催化活性B/B-MWW、B/SiO2和硼氮化物催化剂显示出更好的性能。理解这些聚合位点的独特性质和反应机制，特别是1-D边缘活性位点，对于设计更高效的商用催化剂至关重要。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
