<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          "Catalytic paraffin dehydrogenation for the production of olefins has been in commercial use since the late 1930s, while catalytic paraffin oxydehydrogenation for olefin production has not yet been commercialized."
          
          "Commercial processes for the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butanes attain per-pass conversions in the range of 3060%, while the catalytic dehydrogenation of C10C14 paraffins typically operates at conversion levels of 1020%."
          
          "The dehydrogenation reactions are strongly endothermic, and the heat is provided, at least in part, by the sensible heat stored in the catalyst bed during regeneration (carbon burn); additional heat is provided by direct fuel combustion and also by heat released in the chromium redox cycle."
          
          "In the early 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology that enabled noble metal catalysts to remain at their most desirable stable activity for several years without having to shut down the reactor for catalyst regeneration."
          
          "The combination of noble metal catalysts operating at high severity in conjunction with CCR technology made it possible to design, build, and economically operate large catalytic dehydrogenation units that can produce light olefins, in particular, propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities while still operating at superatmospheric pressures."
          
          "The equilibrium conversion increases at higher temperatures, but side reactions, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation are also accelerated."
          
          "Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts the process efficiency by accelerating catalyst deactivation under high-temperature conditions, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration for light paraffin dehydrogenation."
          
          "Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include the use of platinum modifiers to weaken the platinum-olefin interaction selectively without affecting the platinum-paraffin interaction, improving the stability against fouling by heavy carbonaceous materials, and controlling the acidity of the catalyst support with alkali or alkaline earth metals."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) for propene production has been in commercial use since the late 1930s. The process typically achieves per-pass conversions of 30-60% for propane and butanes. The reaction is strongly endothermic, with heat provided by the catalyst bed during regeneration, direct fuel combustion, and the chromium redox cycle.

          Key considerations for reaction conditions include high temperatures to achieve economically attractive conversions, typically above 600°C for light paraffins. However, higher temperatures also accelerate side reactions, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation.

          Catalyst types have evolved from chromia-alumina to noble metal catalysts, particularly platinum-based catalysts. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s by UOP allowed for stable catalyst activity over several years without reactor shutdowns.

          Industrial applications of PDH include the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities while operating at superatmospheric pressures.

          Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts significantly impacts process efficiency by accelerating catalyst deactivation. Strategies to mitigate this include using platinum modifiers to selectively weaken platinum-olefin interactions, improving stability against fouling, and controlling catalyst support acidity with alkali or alkaline earth metals. The use of multi-stage adiabatic reactors with CCR technology also helps maintain high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          催化直接脱氢丙烷（PDH）生产丙烯自20世纪30年代末以来一直在商业使用中。该工艺通常达到30-60%的丙烷和丁烷单程转化率。反应强烈吸热，热量由催化剂床在再生过程中提供，同时也通过直接燃料燃烧和铬氧化还原循环提供。

          反应条件的关键考虑因素包括高温以实现经济上有吸引力的转化率，轻质石蜡通常需要600°C以上的温度。然而，更高的温度也会加速副反应、焦炭形成和催化剂失活。

          催化剂类型已从铬-氧化铝演变为贵金属催化剂，特别是基于铂的催化剂。20世纪70年代UOP引入的连续催化剂再生（CCR）技术允许催化剂活性在几年内保持稳定，无需停机。

          PDH的工业应用包括在超大气压下高选择性地生产轻质烯烃，特别是丙烯和异丁烯。

          基于铂的催化剂上的焦炭形成显著影响工艺效率，加速催化剂失活。缓解策略包括使用铂改性剂选择性地削弱铂-烯烃相互作用，提高抗污能力，以及用碱金属或碱土金属控制催化剂载体的酸性。使用带有CCR技术的多级绝热反应器也有助于保持高脱氢活性和选择性。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
