<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production that involves the removal of hydrogen from propane to form propene. The reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, play a crucial role in determining the efficiency and selectivity of the process. The choice of catalyst is also critical, with platinum (Pt) and chromium (Cr) being the most well-studied and commercialized catalysts for PDH. However, these catalysts are expensive and environmentally hazardous, respectively, leading to a need for earth-abundant and environmentally-benign alternative catalysts. Recent research has identified promising PDH catalysts based on inexpensive and non-toxic iron-based materials, including Fe or Fe2O3 supported by sulfated alumina, iron-silica zeolites, single-site Fe atoms on silica, and iron nanoparticles derived from metalorganic frameworks on carbon supports. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to a decrease in activity and selectivity, impacting the process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the use of phosphate to suppress coking and maintain activity and selectivity. The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production that involves the removal of hydrogen from propane to form propene. The reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, play a crucial role in determining the efficiency and selectivity of the process. The choice of catalyst is also critical, with metals like platinum (Pt) and chromium (Cr) traditionally used due to their high activity and selectivity. However, these metals can be expensive and toxic, leading to a search for alternative, earth-abundant, and environmentally benign catalysts. Iron-based materials, including iron carbides, have shown promise as potential catalysts for PDH. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to a decrease in activity and selectivity over time, impacting the process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the use of promoters, such as phosphate, which can stabilize the catalyst surface and prevent the accumulation of coke. Catalyst regeneration techniques, such as thermal treatment under an oxidizing atmosphere, can also be employed to remove coke and restore catalyst activity. The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production that involves the removal of hydrogen from propane to form propene. The reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, play a crucial role in determining the efficiency and selectivity of the process. The choice of catalyst is also critical, with platinum (Pt) and chromium (Cr) being the most well-studied and commercialized catalysts for PDH. However, these catalysts are expensive and environmentally hazardous, respectively. Recent research has identified promising PDH catalysts based on inexpensive and non-toxic iron-based materials, including Fe or Fe2O3 supported by sulfated alumina, iron-silica zeolites, single-site Fe atoms on silica, and iron nanoparticles derived from metalorganic frameworks on carbon supports. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can lead to a decrease in activity and selectivity, impacting the process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the use of phosphate to suppress surface carbon and prevent coking, as well as the development of alternative catalysts with high resistance to coking. The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for producing propene by removing hydrogen from propane. The reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, play a crucial role in the efficiency of the process. The choice of catalyst is also critical, as it affects the selectivity and activity of the reaction. Pt-based catalysts are commonly used for PDH, but they are susceptible to coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst and reduce process efficiency. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include using promoters, such as phosphate, to stabilize the catalyst surface and prevent the accumulation of coke. Catalyst regeneration can also be implemented to restore the activity of the deactivated catalyst. The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production that involves the removal of hydrogen from propane to form propene. The reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, play a crucial role in determining the efficiency and selectivity of the process. The choice of catalyst is also critical, with platinum (Pt) and chromium (Cr) being the most well-studied and commercialized catalysts for PDH. However, these catalysts are expensive and environmentally hazardous, respectively, leading to a need for alternative catalysts. Recent research has identified promising PDH catalysts based on inexpensive and non-toxic iron-based materials, including Fe or Fe2O3 supported by sulfated alumina, iron-silica zeolites, single-site Fe atoms on silica, and iron nanoparticles derived from metalorganic frameworks on carbon supports. Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts can significantly impact the process efficiency by reducing the catalyst's activity and selectivity. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the use of phosphate to suppress surface carbon and prevent coking, as well as the development of alternative catalysts with higher resistance to coking.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)是一种通过从丙烷中去除氢来形成丙烯的丙烯生产方法。反应条件，如温度和压力，在确定过程的效率和选择性方面起着至关重要的作用。催化剂的选择也很关键，铂(Pt)和铬(Cr)是PDH研究最深入和商业化的催化剂。然而，这些催化剂既昂贵又对环境有害，导致需要地球丰富的和环境友好的替代催化剂。最近的研究已经确定了基于廉价和无毒的铁基材料的有希望的PDH催化剂，包括由硫酸铝支撑的Fe或Fe2O3，铁硅酸盐沸石，单点Fe原子在二氧化硅上，以及从金属有机框架衍生的碳载体上的铁纳米粒子。Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成会导致活性和选择性的下降，影响过程效率。抑制焦炭形成的策略包括使用磷酸盐来抑制焦化，以保持活性和选择性。催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)是一种通过从丙烷中去除氢来生产丙烯的方法。反应条件，如温度和压力，在决定过程的效率和选择性方面起着至关重要的作用。催化剂的选择也很关键，传统上使用像铂(Pt)和铬(Cr)这样的金属，因为它们具有高活性和选择性。然而，这些金属可能既昂贵又有毒，导致寻找替代的、丰富的、环境友好的催化剂。铁基材料，包括铁碳化物，已经显示出作为PDH潜在催化剂的前景。在基于Pt的催化剂上形成焦炭会导致随时间推移活性和选择性下降，影响过程效率。缓解焦炭形成的战略包括使用促进剂，如磷酸盐，它可以稳定催化剂表面，防止焦炭的积累。催化剂再生技术，如在氧化气氛下进行热处理，也可以用于去除焦炭，恢复催化剂活性。催化直接脱氢丙烷（PDH）是一种通过从丙烷中去除氢来形成丙烯的丙烯生产方法。反应条件，如温度和压力，在确定过程的效率和选择性方面起着至关重要的作用。催化剂的选择也很关键，铂（Pt）和铬（Cr）是研究最深入和商业化的PDH催化剂。然而，这些催化剂价格昂贵且对环境有害。最近的研究确定了基于廉价和无毒铁基材料的有前途的PDH催化剂，包括由硫酸铝支撑的Fe或Fe2O3，铁硅酸盐沸石，硅胶上的单点Fe原子以及从金属有机框架衍生的碳支持上的铁纳米粒子。Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成会导致活性和选择性下降，影响过程效率。缓解焦炭形成的策略包括使用磷酸盐抑制表面碳并防止焦炭形成，以及开发具有高抗焦炭性的替代催化剂。催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)是一种通过从丙烷中去除氢来生产丙烯的方法。反应条件，如温度和压力，在过程效率中起着至关重要的作用。催化剂的选择也很关键，因为它影响反应的选择性和活性。Pt基催化剂通常用于PDH，但它们容易形成焦炭，这会钝化催化剂，降低过程效率。缓解焦炭形成的策略包括使用促进剂，如磷酸盐，来稳定催化剂表面，防止焦炭的积累。催化剂再生也可以实施，以恢复失活催化剂的活性。催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)是一种通过从丙烷中去除氢来形成丙烯的丙烯生产方法。反应条件，如温度和压力，在确定过程的效率和选择性方面起着至关重要的作用。催化剂的选择也很关键，铂(Pt)和铬(Cr)是研究最多和商业化的PDH催化剂。然而，这些催化剂既昂贵又对环境有害，导致对替代催化剂的需求。最近的研究已经确定了基于廉价和无毒的铁基材料的有前途的PDH催化剂，包括由硫酸铝支撑的Fe或Fe2O3，铁硅酸盐沸石，单位Fe原子在二氧化硅上，以及从金属有机框架衍生的碳支持的铁纳米粒子。Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成会严重影响过程效率，通过降低催化剂的活性和选择性。缓解焦炭形成的策略包括使用磷酸盐抑制表面碳并防止焦炭化，以及开发具有更高抗焦炭能力的替代催化剂。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
