<quotes>
[1] "The distribution and the chemical states of Mo in a 2 wt% Mo/ZSM-5, before and after calcination at different temperatures, were investigated using XPS, ISS, and FT-IR techniques, and correlated with kinetic results for the conversion of methane to benzene."
[2] "Formation of molybdenum carbide during the reaction of CH4 is further supported by XPS spectra in the Mo3d region. As shown in Fig. 5, the molybdenum species present in the freshly calcined catalyst, based on the observed Mo3d binding energies, is mainly Mo6+ (10, 31, 36). After the sample was exposed to methane at 700C for 2 h, which corresponds to the steady state achieved for the catalytic reaction (Fig. 2), the original Mo6+ ions were almost completely reduced."
[3] "The phenomenon of spreading and/or dispersion of Mo oxides on various oxide supports, particularly alumina, silica, and zeolites, has been intensively studied recently (37–39)."
[4] "Based solely on the observed intensity changes of the ν(OH) IR bands, no definitive conclusion can be drawn about the distribution of molybdenum in the ZSM-5 zeolite because the extinction coefficients of the different types of hydroxyl groups are not known."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The distribution and chemical states of molybdenum (Mo) in a 2 wt% Mo/ZSM-5 catalyst were investigated using XPS, ISS, and FT-IR techniques. After calcination at different temperatures, Mo is initially present as MoO3, primarily in the form of small crystallites on the external surface of the ZSM-5 zeolite. After treatment at 400°C, relatively little Mo is found in the channels of ZSM-5, and the acidity of the zeolite is not altered. After calcination at 500°C in oxygen, Mo becomes highly dispersed on the external surface of the zeolite, and part of it diffuses into the channels, causing a decrease in acidity. The Mo distribution is not uniform on the external surface of the zeolite. Although calcination of the catalyst at 700°C for 0.5 hours results in improved dispersion of Mo over the external surface and possibly inside the channels, monolayer coverage of Mo on the external surface does not occur. The concentration of Mo within the channels of the zeolite increases as the temperature and time of calcination increase. The presence of moisture during calcination may significantly promote diffusion of Mo into the channels, especially at higher temperatures.

The formation of Mo2C during exposure of the catalyst to CH4 or CH4/H2 at 700°C indicates that carbidic molybdenum species are the active centers for the activation of methane. This assumption is supported by the inhibiting effect of CO2 or moisture on the formation of benzene. The induction period for the production of benzene is not completely eliminated by the formation of Mo2C, suggesting that a coke-modified Mo2C surface may be the actual active species in the formation of ethylene as the reaction intermediate.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在2 wt% Mo/ZSM-5催化剂中钼（Mo）的分布和化学状态，通过使用XPS、ISS和FT-IR技术进行了研究。在不同温度下煅烧后，Mo最初以MoO3的形式存在，主要分布在ZSM-5沸石外表面的小晶粒上。在400°C处理后，相对较少的Mo存在于ZSM-5的通道中，并且对沸石的酸性没有改变。在500°C氧气中煅烧后，Mo在沸石外表面高度分散，并且部分Mo扩散到通道中，导致酸性的减少。Mo在外表面的分布并不均匀。尽管在700°C下煅烧0.5小时后，Mo在外表面的分布得到改善并可能进入通道，但外表面的单层覆盖并没有发生。随着煅烧时间和温度的增加，Mo在沸石通道中的浓度增加。在煅烧过程中水分的存在可能会显著促进Mo向通道的扩散，尤其是在较高温度下。

暴露催化剂到CH4或CH4/H2在700°C时形成的Mo2C表明，碳化钼物种是甲烷活化的活性中心。这一假设得到了二氧化碳或水分对苯形成抑制效果的支持。形成Mo2C并不能完全消除生产苯的诱导期，表明被焦炭修饰的Mo2C表面可能是形成乙烯作为反应中间体的实际活性物种。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
