<quotes>
Catalytic properties of early transition metal nitrides and carbides:n-butane hydrogenolysis, dehydrogenation and isomerization
M.K. Neylon, S. Choi, H. Kwon, K.E. Curry1, L.T. Thompson*
Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2136, USA Received 3 August 1998; received in revised form 18 February 1999; accepted 21 February 1999 Abstract Phase-pure early transition metal nitrides and carbides were prepared via the temperature programmed reaction of metal oxides with NH3 or a CH4/H2 mixture. The nitrides and carbides were mostly mesoporous with surface areas up to 81 m2/g.
Their gravimetric butane conversion rates were generally higher than those for a PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst. Activities for the nitrides and carbides ranged from 0.41012 to 101012 molecules/cm2 s at 723 K and decreased as follows: g- Mo2N>W2CWC>b-W2NWC1x>b-Mo2C>VNV8C7NbCNb4N3.92. The metal atom type had the most signicant effect on the activity and selectivity. The Group VI metal nitrides and carbides were much more active than the Group V metal compounds. In general, the Group VI metal compounds catalyzed butane hydrogenolysis and dehydrogenation with similar selectivities while the vanadium compounds had dehydrogenation selectivities in excess of 98%. The b-W2N catalyst also catalyzed butane isomerization possibly as a consequence of the presence of oxygen on the surface. The effect of lattice structure was signicant and obvious for the tungsten carbides where WC (hex) was almost twice as active as WC1x (fcc) despite having similarC/Wratios.Nitrides and carbidesofthesamemetaland latticestructurehadsimilaractivitiessuggestingthattheeffectofthe non-metal atom type was small. We believe variations in the catalytic properties of the nitrides and carbides were the result of differences between their electronic structures. # 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Various carbon-based materials, such as nitrides and carbides of early transition metals, showed high catalytic activity in alkane dehydrogenation, hydrogenolysis, and isomerization reactions. The activity and selectivity of these materials were influenced by the metal atom type, with Group VI metals being more active than Group V metals. The most active materials were found to be molybdenum nitrides (Mo2N) and tungsten carbides (WC), followed by tungsten nitrides (W2N), and vanadium compounds (VN). The lattice structure also played a significant role, with hexagonal tungsten carbides being more active than face-centered cubic ones. The effect of the non-metal atom type was considered insignificant. The high catalytic activity of these materials was attributed to differences in their electronic structures.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
各种碳基材料，如早期过渡金属的氮化物和碳化物，在烷烃脱氢、氢解和异构化反应中表现出高催化活性。这些材料的活性和选择性受到金属原子类型的影响，其中第六周期族金属更为活跃。最活跃的材料被发现是钼氮化物（Mo2N）和钨碳化物（WC），随后是钨氮化物（W2N）和钒化合物（VN）。晶格结构也发挥了重要作用，六角形钨碳化物比面心立方型更活跃。非金属原子类型的效应被认为微不足道。这些材料的高催化活性归因于它们在电子结构上的差异。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
