<quotes>
[1] "One exception was the PtCu catalyst, which exhibited unexpectedly low hydrogenation activity accompanied by a high selectivity toward partial hydrogenation to produce cyclohexene."
[2] "The consumption rate of 1,4-CHD over the PtCu catalyst was much slower than that over the other three catalysts, it exhibited a unique hydrogenation behavior, as illustrated by the absence of the cyclohexane product and the continuous increase in the concentration of the partial hydrogenation product, cyclohexene."
[3] "However, the low cyclohexene hydrogenation rate on PtCu alone is not sufficient to explain the absence of any cyclohexane product. One possible explanation is that the surface intermediate is different when PtCu is exposed to pure cyclohexene or to the reaction mixture of 1,4-CHD, benzene, and cyclohexene."
[4] "The lower rate of cyclohexene hydrogenation over PtCu was likely the origin for the higher concentration of cyclohexene as compared to the other three catalysts, whereupon cyclohexene was initially produced but was subsequently consumed due to the higher hydrogenation rate of cyclohexene over PtNi, PtCo and Pt."
[5] "The dehydrogenation product, benzene, was also produced during the reaction of 1,4-CHD over the four catalysts (Figure1). The concentration of benzene decreased slightly with reaction time over the PtNi and PtCo bimetallic catalysts. The hydrogenation of benzene to cyclohexane occurs readily over PtNi and PtCo at 343K,10 which might have been responsible for the slight consumption of benzene at 308K (Figure1)."
[6] "In contrast, the continuous increase in benzene concentration over the PtCu catalyst suggested that it was completely inert toward benzene hydrogenation at 308K (Figure2b)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The hydrogenation behavior of the PtCu catalyst deviated significantly from the other catalysts. Despite having a relatively low binding energy for 1,4-cyclohexadiene, the PtCu catalyst showed low hydrogenation activity towards complete hydrogenation to cyclohexane. Instead, it selectively produced cyclohexene, which persisted throughout the reaction, suggesting a different surface intermediate. This behavior contrasts with the other catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and Pt, where cyclohexane was initially produced but was consumed due to their higher hydrogenation rates. The PtCu catalyst was inert towards the hydrogenation of benzene at 308K, explaining the lack of cyclohexane production despite the low hydrogenation rate of cyclohexene.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
铂铜催化剂的氢化行为与其它催化剂大相径庭。尽管其1,4-环己二烯的结合能相对较低，铂铜催化剂在完全氢化至环己烷方面的活性却很低。相反，它选择性地生成了环己烯，该产物在整个反应过程中持续增加，暗示了不同的表面中间体。这一行为与其它催化剂（特别是铂镍、铂钴和铂），其中环己烷最初被产生但随后由于铂、铂钴和铂上环己烯较高的氢化速率而被消耗的情况形成对比。铂铜催化剂在308K下对苯的氢化作用完全无活性，这解释了缺乏环己烷产物的原因，尽管其环己烯的氢化速率较低。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
