<quotes>
Catalyst performance of novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation Georges Siddiqi, Pingping Sun, Vladimir Galvita, Alexis T. Bell * Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-1462, USA a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 8 May 2010 Revised 28 June 2010 Accepted 29 June 2010 Available online 10 August 2010 Keywords: Ethane Propane Alkane dehydrogenation Pt Hydrotalcite a b s t r a c t The dehydrogenation of ethane and propane using a Pt catalyst supported on a novel Mg(Ga)(Al)O mixed oxide support was investigated. Catalyst performance is strongly dependent on Ga content in the support,a peak in activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation occurs at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4, and selectivity is a monotonic function of Ga/Pt, reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. The addition of hydrogen to the feed resulted in a peak in activity with respect to H2/alkane. The increase in dehydrogenation rate with H2 addition is attributed to H-atom-assisted dehydrogenation of alkyl species formed upon dissociative adsorption of the reactant alkane. Beyond the peak in activity with H2 addition, a further increase in H2 feed concentration contribute to alkene hydrogenation, thereby reducing the net rate of dehydroge- nation. Hydrogen addition to the feed, however, had relatively little effect on alkene selectivity, which remained near 100%. The presence of Ga also suppressed coke formation. Interestingly, less coke was formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, and no correlation was found between coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Thus, the extent of deactivation was lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, whereas the amount of coke deposited was higher in the former case.
Since the amount of carbon deposited as coke is higher than the amount of exposed Pt, it is concluded that most of the coke resides on the support, and that only a small amount resides on the Pt particles.
The higher level of deactivation seen during propane versus ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to a higher coverage of Pt by coke precursors derived from propane than ethane. 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This study investigates the performance of novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for the dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. The catalyst performance is strongly dependent on the Ga content in the support. A peak in activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation occurs at a Ga/Pt ratio of 1.45.4. The addition of hydrogen to the feed resulted in a peak in activity with respect to H2/alkane. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and coke formation compared to conventional bimetallic catalysts. The higher level of deactivation during propane dehydrogenation is attributed to a higher coverage of Pt by coke precursors derived from propane than ethane.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文研究了新型Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O催化剂在乙烷和丙烷脱氢中的性能。催化剂性能与支持物中Ga含量密切相关。乙烷和丙烷脱氢的活性峰值出现在Ga/Pt比为1.45.4时。向原料气中添加氢气导致活性峰值出现，相对于烷烃而言。镓的存在抑制了焦炭的形成，导致了与传统双金属催化剂相比更低的失活和焦炭形成。丙烷脱氢过程中较高的Pt覆盖度是由来源于丙烷的焦炭前体导致的，这是导致丙烷脱氢过程中较高失活水平的原因之一。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
