Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites as a key active center. This structure effectively activates molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved catalyst performance are lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in achieving selectivity and activity. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing design can lead to improved performance. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, optimizing olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for improved performance is crucial in B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This interplay facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes, shutting off overoxidation pathways and CO2 formation, thus enhancing conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reactions is crucial for developing efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay and synergistic effects crucial for catalyst performance. Understanding these reactions aids in optimizing catalysts for higher selectivity and efficiency, balancing olefin formation and minimizing overoxidation. The interconnectivity of pathways suggests a comprehensive approach to catalyst design, considering both surface properties and gas-phase chemistry for improved efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between these reactions significantly enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as the surface acts as an initiator for gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights, yet understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by recent discoveries on hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts [2]. The limited contribution of gas-phase reactions to zeolite-based catalysts may explain lower catalytic activity [3]. Enhanced gas-phase reactions and highly exposed active boron centers could construct highly active and selective ODHP catalysts [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, with implications for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are critical for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, as they elucidate the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions, essential for optimizing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly affects catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, coupled with gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, while minimizing interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The surface's role in generating reactive species, such as HOO. radicals, contrasts with vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. Specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst exemplifies this, achieving high propylene productivity by efficiently dispersing the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improving mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, demonstrating the importance of optimizing catalyst design for improved performance and selectivity. The complex interplay between these reactions is essential for achieving high propylene productivity, as seen under high GHSV conditions, where overoxidation is suppressed and olefin selectivity is high.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for enhanced performance and optimized olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts is crucial for improved O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for comprehensive understanding and catalyst optimization. Synergistic effects influence selectivity and activity, necessitating balanced catalyst design to maximize desired product formation and minimize byproducts. Optimizing for both surface and gas-phase reactions can improve efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy. Understanding and optimizing this mechanism is essential for designing more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key to efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by recent discoveries on h-BN catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts through gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. This highlights the synergistic effects of these reactions on catalyst performance. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions [7] is a promising strategy for achieving high activity and selectivity in ODHP processes, addressing the limitations of zeolite-based catalysts where gas-phase reactions contribute less [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This 1D edge catalyst characteristic avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene is formed from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products can be produced via both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, highlighting the potential for selective alkane conversions. These findings are crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting dual optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for more selective catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites as the active center. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network with implications for catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates this by achieving high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, highlighting the importance of optimizing catalyst design for enhanced performance and selectivity. The literature underscores the role of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species, relating to surface reactions, and the effective management of gas-phase reactions under high GHSV conditions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This interplay enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for enhanced catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergies facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, shutting off overoxidation pathways, and provide multiple routes for converting light alkanes to olefins, crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for understanding catalyst performance. Synergistic effects suggest optimizing both surface and gas-phase processes for enhanced selectivity and efficiency, guiding the development of more efficient catalysts that balance olefin formation and overoxidation control.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is key for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is pivotal. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions enhances understanding and catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Optimizing catalyst performance requires insight into species ensuring high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity, highlighting the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions. Further investigation into these synergies is crucial for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts [2]. This highlights the synergistic effects on catalyst performance and design optimization. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for achieving high activity and selectivity in ODHP [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This is due to the propyl radical's stabilization by the nitroxyl radical site, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, highlighting the potential for selective alkane conversions. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and their gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, while minimizing interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms where surface reactions predominate. The combined surface and gas-phase reaction network provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites, which efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional nature could lead to a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The synergistic effects of these reactions suggest potential for optimizing catalyst performance, though specific details on how to achieve this are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance performance. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and ensuring high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, crucial for catalyst performance and design, emphasize controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, optimizing olefin yields and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, has synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay and synergistic effects crucial for catalyst performance. Understanding these reactions aids in optimizing catalysts for higher selectivity and efficiency, balancing olefin formation and minimizing overoxidation. Both surface properties and gas-phase chemistry must be considered for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and selectivity. Achieving synergy between these processes enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights, yet understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is crucial for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. This highlights the importance of gas-phase reactions for enhanced catalytic performance. Consequently, constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site significantly contributes to high olefin selectivity, highlighting the synergistic effects. This one-dimensional nature avoids the creation of highly reactive radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst efficiency and selectivity, crucial for design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts and provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with potential implications for catalyst performance and design. However, the literature lacks specific details on optimizing the synergistic effects for improved catalytic outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. The synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently balancing surface and gas-phase reactions, which is attributed to the optimized dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing these reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, and the catalyst's design under high GHSV conditions effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. Synergistic effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, shutting off overoxidation pathways, and optimizing catalyst design for efficient light alkane conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions have significant implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting a need for balanced surface and gas-phase processes to maximize selectivity and efficiency. Understanding and controlling these pathways can lead to more efficient catalysts that favor desired products while minimizing byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Synergizing these reactions enhances understanding and optimizes B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN and oxygenated boron species selectively catalyze ODH, with complex radical networks in the gas phase posing challenges for understanding. Identifying species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts (Quote [2]). A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites (Quote [6]), suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity results from limited gas-phase reactions (Quote [3]). Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts' performance and selectivity (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, leading to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is now better understood due to the direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, as revealed by SVUV-PIMS. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. This contrasts with the product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts, indicating differing mechanisms. These insights are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane ODH, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, and underscore the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions in catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, and the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveal guidelines for catalyst optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates this by achieving high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The catalyst's design, with high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, crucial for surface reactions, while the monolithic design ensures effective gas-phase reaction management.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. BO(H) active site formation facilitated by ethane enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion. Edge B atoms in BN nanosheets are crucial for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation, suggesting design strategies for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, offering multiple routes for converting light alkanes to olefins, thus enhancing catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity, impacting catalyst performance and design. Synergistic effects influence selectivity and activity, guiding efficient catalyst development for desired product maximization and undesired byproduct minimization. Optimizing for both surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation is crucial. Understanding and controlling these pathways enhances the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the reaction's occurrence in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, is crucial for understanding the reaction network. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions is key to achieving high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide on the catalyst surface initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Enhancing this synergy is essential for optimizing B-based catalytic systems and deepening our understanding of the ODHP reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts due to gas-phase radical chemistry. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts result in lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, leading to higher reaction order. Embryonic borosilicate zeolite catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, caused by VOx site-catalyzed surface contribution, was observed. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for high activity and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, leading to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects that can optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains the unique product distribution. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation contribute to this distribution. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This understanding guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. The surface plays a critical role in generating reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. This mechanism contrasts with vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation and leading to various boron species with different reactivities.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The literature suggests that the synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions could lead to a more complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, although specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design can enhance performance and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions, demonstrated by ethane's role in active site formation and hydrogen abstraction with O2 assistance, guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions. Understanding these synergies can lead to improved catalyst performance and optimized olefin yields, emphasizing the need for efficient and selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergies facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, enhancing the conversion of light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex reaction pathways and synergistic effects that are crucial for catalyst performance. Understanding these interactions aids in optimizing catalyst design for enhanced selectivity and efficiency, balancing surface reactions for olefin formation with gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions is pivotal for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide on the catalyst surface initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, notably h-BN, selectively catalyze the ODHP reaction with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. The multidimensional mechanism, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is complex and requires further investigation to fully comprehend. Understanding which species ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is key to optimizing catalyst performance. The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest that a comprehensive approach is needed for catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This dual pathway is crucial for understanding catalytic performance, as gas-phase reactions significantly influence overall activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, catalyzed by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, indicating gas-phase radical pathways. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These insights, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, are crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting integrated optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, elucidates the unique product distribution. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation explain this distribution, as highlighted by catalytic measurements and quantum calculations. This understanding suggests that optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting with vanadium-based catalysts where surface reactions dominate. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    