Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance. However, literature lacks details on optimizing these effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, and the catalyst's high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading contribute to high propylene productivity under high GHSV conditions, suppressing overoxidation and ensuring high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, where BO(H) active sites form with ethane's aid, facilitating selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for enhanced catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as critical catalytic activity sites. Their synergistic effects optimize performance by enabling CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation pathways, leading to efficient conversion to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is essential for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay and synergistic effects, crucial for understanding the overall network. This complexity impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the need for balanced surface and gas-phase reactions to enhance selectivity and efficiency. Optimizing catalysts to facilitate desired radical reactions while minimizing side reactions improves the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, initiated by the boron oxide/hydroxide phase forming alkyl radicals that react in the gas phase, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding and design of effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Optimizing catalyst performance requires insight into species ensuring high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity, highlighting the need for comprehensive investigation into surface-gas-phase synergies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry enhances ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site catalysis, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity stems from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This is due to the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, indicating gas-phase radical pathways. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. This understanding is crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, as it highlights synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions, which can optimize catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion, guiding the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion. The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions underscores the need for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This interplay optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple conversion pathways to olefins. A thorough understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for high selectivity and efficiency. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy, enhancing understanding and design of B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with low CO2 production, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge understanding, yet insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are key to efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation is needed to fully comprehend this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts (Wu, [2]). A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may stem from limited gas-phase reactions ([3], [4], [6]). To construct highly active and selective ODHP catalysts, focusing on highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is promising ([7]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This 1D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are significant for catalyst design, highlighting selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting improved efficiency and selectivity through synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their propagation in the gas phase explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, closely linked to the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions, revealing the complexity of boron species with different reactivities.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network that could enhance catalyst performance and design optimization through synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The complex interplay between these reactions provides multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, requiring a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, demonstrates the importance of stabilizing active boron species for surface reactions and effectively managing gas-phase reactions, leading to high propylene productivity and selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, enhancing selectivity and efficiency in converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for design optimization. Efficient catalysts must balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving overall efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radical formation that further reacts in the gas phase, is key to understanding the synergistic effects essential for optimizing B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalysis. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires comprehensive understanding. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. Lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity in zeolite-based catalysts may stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Enhanced gas-phase reactions and exposed active boron centers could optimize catalysts for higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, providing insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, reveals a unique product distribution. Metastable sites facilitate radical formation, which propagates in the gas phase, as highlighted in Quotes 1 and 6. This multidimensional approach, as per Quote 10, enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting with vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 11). Optimal catalysts should generate reactive species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products (Quote 8). This understanding guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for enhanced performance (Quote 6). The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions have profound implications for catalyst design optimization, as they can lead to enhanced selectivity and efficiency in the ODHP process. Future studies of boron-containing materials benefit from this mechanistic framework (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites, which efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The literature lacks specifics on how the synergistic effects of these reactions contribute to the overall network and catalyst optimization, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, impacting selectivity and activity. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, with the catalyst's design playing a pivotal role in managing these reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites and hydrogen abstraction from ethane with O2 assistance, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for efficient paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient conversion to olefins. A comprehensive grasp of both reaction types is essential for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized design. Balancing these reactions can enhance efficiency and selectivity, minimizing undesired byproducts. Understanding and controlling these pathways is crucial for developing more efficient B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which together offer a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. The reaction's 3-D nature, occurring in both surface-active sites and the gas phase, highlights its complexity. Effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between these reactions significantly enhances the understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN and boron-containing catalysts with active oxygenated boron species enable this selective catalysis. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions suggests that optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of these synergies, warranting further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through enhanced gas-phase radical chemistry. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site-catalyzed surface contribution, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional, enhancing our understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the synergistic effects for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting dual optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy has profound implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on the generation of reactive species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species that favor secondary CH bond abstraction and not interact strongly with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with potential synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these effects for enhanced performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer by the honeycomb structure. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while high GHSV conditions effectively manage gas-phase reactions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between reactions highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation. This enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin conversion to olefins. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts is crucial for improved performance, as edge B atoms are key for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to efficient conversion to olefins. Understanding these reactions is crucial for designing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, affecting selectivity and activity. Understanding and balancing both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation while minimizing byproducts, improving overall oxidative dehydrogenation process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in 3-D space and the division into surface and gas radical reactions, is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The synergy between these processes, as in the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, is significant for understanding the reaction and optimizing B-based catalysts. The boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radicals, which react in the gas phase, demonstrating the importance of effective coupling for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as evidenced by enhanced ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts due to gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. This highlights the synergistic effects of these reactions on catalyst performance. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for achieving high activity and selectivity in ODHP [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and avoid overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional, enhancing our understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their propagation in the gas phase explain the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation and the variety of boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a more complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment, achieves high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions is crucial for understanding the overall network, and optimizing catalyst design could enhance performance and selectivity. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, and the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst's design, with high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, demonstrates how to manage these reactions for high productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the overall network. Synergistic effects, crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, emphasizing the control of surface properties and gas-phase conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to efficient conversion to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is key to developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex reaction pathways and synergistic effects that influence catalyst performance. Understanding these interactions is crucial for optimizing catalysts to enhance selectivity and efficiency, balancing surface reactions for olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation. This comprehensive approach aids in developing more efficient and selective catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, with reactions in 1- and 2-D surface sites and 3-D gas space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between these reactions enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is central to this synergy.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive grasp of surface-gas-phase synergies, essential for high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, in addition to surface-catalyzed pathways, are crucial, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts through gas-phase radical chemistry. This highlights the importance of constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions for higher activity and selectivity. The observation of a reaction order dependent on propane partial pressure suggests that zeolite-based catalysts may have limited gas-phase reaction contributions, affecting their performance. Thus, optimizing catalyst design to balance surface and gas-phase reactions could enhance overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids creating a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, discovered using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions offer potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in activating molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The literature lacks specifics on optimizing these synergistic effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. Synergistic effects between these reactions contribute to the overall network, offering multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Optimizing the balance between surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates this balance, achieving high propylene productivity through efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the design manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergies optimize CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins, crucial for efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay and synergistic effects, crucial for understanding catalyst performance. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, aiming for high selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in 3-D space, necessitates a comprehensive understanding. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. h-BN's role in radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions is crucial for selective catalysis. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. The observation of a 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and suppress overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design optimization, as they enable selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, deepening our understanding of synergistic effects for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, suggesting potential improvements in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species for gas-phase activation and minimizing surface interactions. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of reactive boron species. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    