Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's ability to activate molecular oxygen and propane suggests a multidimensional reaction mechanism involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. The synergistic effects of these reactions could lead to a more complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved catalyst performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion, highlighting the importance of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species and the monolithic design in managing gas-phase reactions for high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites for selective ethane conversion to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially enhancing catalyst performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to efficient conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity in the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface and gas-phase processes for efficient olefin production and minimized overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation in the gas phase, is key to this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and optimizes B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst design requires comprehensive understanding. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding the overall reaction network. Gas-phase radical reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. The lower reaction order of propane and catalytic activity over zeolite-based catalysts is attributed to limited gas-phase reactions, while enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, leading to higher reaction orders. The construction of highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts, as evidenced by the enhanced catalytic performance of embryonic borosilicate zeolite catalysts and the 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure catalyzed by VOx sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is key to this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products can arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest varied reaction mechanisms. Understanding the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, and essential for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, indicating that improving both reaction types could enhance efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their propagation in the gas phase explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, and the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing a complex oxidation process leading to various boron species with different reactivities.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects, which could enhance catalyst performance and offer opportunities for design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions is crucial for understanding the overall reaction network, and optimizing catalyst design can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The synergistic effects of these reactions provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, and the design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages these reactions to achieve high propylene productivity and suppress overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Edge B atoms in BN nanosheets are crucial for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation, suggesting design strategies for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, thus enhancing the conversion of light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity, influencing catalyst selectivity and activity. Synergistic effects suggest a balanced approach in catalyst design, considering both surface reactions for olefin formation and gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, aiming to improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, necessitates a comprehensive understanding of the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, highlights the synergy essential for optimized B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase, as observed with h-BN, hinder deeper ODHP understanding. Optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive grasp of surface-gas-phase synergies, crucial for high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts result in lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, leading to higher reaction order. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site catalysis, indicates the importance of surface contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for high activity and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This insight guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts by avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues in 0D and 2D catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions highlight potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing our understanding of the synergistic effects for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting dual optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, while minimizing interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component is crucial for the outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The complex interplay between these reactions contributes to the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing the rates of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst exemplifies optimized design, achieving high propylene productivity through efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions enhance selectivity and activity, with the first coated SiO2 layer stabilizing active boron species and the monolithic design managing gas-phase reactions effectively, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane conversion to ethylene. This knowledge guides the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, illustrating the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reaction types is essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the complex reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, thereby improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy, significantly impacting catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, like h-BN, uniquely catalyze the ODHP reaction, selectively cleaving CH bonds with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. The mechanism involves surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, offering a pathway for high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity. Complex radical networks in the gas phase pose challenges, necessitating further investigation to optimize catalyst performance and design. Understanding which species ensure high efficiency is critical for constructing more effective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the significance of gas-phase reactions for overall catalytic activity. Gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts boosts ODHP activity, as evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests limited gas-phase reaction contribution in zeolite-based catalysts. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, supported by the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals the existence of gas-phase pathways, enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily on the surface, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, crucial for catalyst design. The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions, similar to redox-poor oxides like MgO, offer potential for selective alkane conversions, essential for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's dual role suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which could impact catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst's efficient dispersion and firm attachment, along with improved mass transfer, contribute to high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions is crucial for understanding the overall reaction network, and optimizing catalyst design to balance their contributions can lead to improved performance in terms of propylene productivity and selectivity. The synergistic effects of these reactions provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, and the design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, demonstrates how these considerations can be addressed for high propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges by ethane, and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex reaction pathways and synergistic effects that are crucial for understanding catalyst performance. Considering both surface and gas-phase processes is essential for optimizing catalyst selectivity and activity, aiming to maximize desired product formation and minimize byproducts. Efficient catalyst design requires balancing these reactions to enhance overall reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions is pivotal for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation that further reacts in the gas phase, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase require further study. Optimizing catalyst performance necessitates understanding the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions, crucial for high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, in addition to surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as seen in h-BN and B2O3-based catalysts. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by the formation of NO. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts have lower activity due to limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalyst performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids overreactive propyl radical formation and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals the existence of radical pathways, enhancing insights into reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise via both surface and gas-phase routes. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, indicating potential for enhanced catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing a variety of boron species with different reactivities. This understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment, demonstrates high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion, highlighting the importance of optimizing catalyst design for improved performance and selectivity. The complex interplay between reactions is essential for understanding the overall network, and the first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges facilitated by ethane, and hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving efficiency and selectivity. Controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges is key for optimized catalysts, as edge B atoms are vital for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts can enhance performance, demonstrating the importance of surface properties and gas-phase conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, plays a crucial role in catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for light alkanes to olefins conversion. A comprehensive understanding of both reactions is essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay and synergistic effects crucial for catalyst performance. Understanding these reactions aids in optimizing catalysts for higher selectivity and efficiency by balancing surface and gas-phase processes, minimizing overoxidation, and maximizing desired product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the division into surface and gas radical reactions, is crucial for understanding the reaction network and the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of these processes is essential for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase, is key to this synergy. Enhancing this synergy is significant for designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex gas-phase radical networks challenge deeper understanding. Optimizing catalysts requires insight into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest comprehensive analysis is key for enhanced performance. Further investigation into these synergies is essential for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity [1]. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through enhanced gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. The construction of highly exposed active boron centers and the promotion of gas-phase reactions are promising strategies for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts [7]. This understanding underscores the synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions in optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, indicating potential for enhanced catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase for fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation leading to various boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. Synergistic effects of these reactions could enhance the reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimization are lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently dispersing the catalytically active B2O3 layer and enhancing mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects of these reactions provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design to balance their contributions can improve propylene productivity and selectivity. The literature highlights the role of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species, relating to surface reactions, and the monolithic catalyst design's effectiveness in managing gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially enhancing olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for improved performance is crucial, as evidenced by the literature's emphasis on edge B atoms for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reaction types is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex reaction pathways and synergistic effects that influence catalyst selectivity and activity. Understanding these interactions is crucial for optimizing catalyst design to enhance efficiency and selectivity, balancing surface reactions for olefin formation with gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between these processes significantly enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with low CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is crucial. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for comprehensive catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts correlate with lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions, however, facilitate propane activation and higher reaction order. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site catalysis, supports this. To construct highly active and selective ODHP catalysts, focusing on highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is recommended.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is key to this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, indicating gas-phase radical pathways. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These insights are crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This multidimensionality has significant implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting potential improvements in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a potentially more complex network with implications for catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The complex interplay between these reactions provides multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, highlighting the importance of balancing their rates to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the B2O3 layer, exemplifies optimized design for high propylene productivity. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions contribute to the overall reaction network, influencing selectivity and activity. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can lead to improved performance in terms of propylene productivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts is crucial for enhanced performance, as edge B atoms are vital for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, thus enhancing conversion to olefins. Understanding these synergies is key to designing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, affecting selectivity and activity. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation while minimizing byproducts. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation, leading to improved efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding and design of effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Gaining insights into species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is crucial. The complex synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, recognized as crucial alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall catalytic activity [1]. Wu's recent study demonstrates improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts, evidenced by NO formation [2]. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, observed due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions [6]. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by nitroxyl radical sites, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This insight guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts, avoiding issues typical of 0D and 2D catalysts, such as overreactive propyl radicals and overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, highlighting the existence of gas-phase pathways. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These insights are critical for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and their gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This understanding, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, and the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing a complex oxidation process leading to various boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    