Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The potential synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently balancing these reactions, enhancing selectivity and activity. Its design, with optimized B2O3 loading and high surface area, stabilizes active boron species for surface reactions and manages gas-phase reactions effectively, even under high GHSV conditions, suppressing overoxidation and maximizing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. This understanding guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, focusing on maximizing edge sites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with implications for catalyst performance and design optimization. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of both reaction types. These effects optimize performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, offering multiple conversion routes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst performance, suggesting a need for balanced design to maximize olefin production and minimize overoxidation. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions requires understanding both surface and gas-phase processes to enhance efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radicals that react in the gas phase, is a key aspect of this synergy, significantly impacting the design of effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, notably h-BN, selectively catalyze the ODHP reaction, cleaving the CH bond with minimal CO2 formation, a contrast to the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. The multidimensional nature, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding synergistic effects and optimizing catalyst performance. Gaining insights into species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is key to constructing efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the complex surface-gas-phase reaction synergies is warranted for a comprehensive understanding of this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts, where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity stems from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute significantly to high olefin selectivity. This 1D edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, underscoring the existence of gas-phase pathways and offering new insights into the ODHP mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions for enhanced catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure effectively activates molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation, potentially leading to a complex reaction network with synergistic effects. The literature's gap on these synergistic effects highlights an area for further research, crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design can enhance performance and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, and the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges with ethane's aid and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges is key, facilitating selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. This understanding supports the development of more efficient and selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, highlighted by the role of BOH groups from BO species with steam assistance, demonstrates synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. These effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reaction dimensions is essential for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting the need for a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions can improve efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the reaction's occurrence in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding, yet identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key to efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is essential for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall catalytic activity [1]. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through enhanced gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. Lower reaction orders and catalytic activity over zeolite-based catalysts may result from limited gas-phase reactions [3]. Highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions are key to constructing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, offering potential for selective alkane conversions. These findings are significant for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly affects catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, and the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveal guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network that could enhance catalyst performance and design optimization through synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The complex interplay and synergistic effects have implications for catalyst performance, as seen in the stabilization of active boron species and effective management of gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation facilitated by ethane and O2's role in hydrogen abstraction highlight complex interactions. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially improving olefin yields. Edge B atoms in BN nanosheets are crucial for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation, suggesting design strategies for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, optimizing catalyst performance and design for efficient conversion of light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the complex reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, influencing selectivity and activity. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase, exemplifies this synergy. Enhancing this synergy is significant for a deeper understanding of the mechanism and optimizing B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Optimizing catalyst performance requires insight into species ensuring high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity, highlighting synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by experimental observations of gas-phase reactions and the exceptional product distribution on h-BN catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts, where NO formation was observed. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects offer potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains the unique product distribution. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their gas-phase propagation, as revealed by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlight the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This understanding guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species for gas-phase activation and minimizing consecutive surface oxidation steps. The synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions enhances catalyst performance and design optimization, leading to enhanced selectivity and efficiency in the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects, which could enhance catalyst performance and offer opportunities for design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Balancing these reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment, demonstrates high propylene productivity by effectively managing both surface and gas-phase reactions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the significance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. This insight guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, emphasizing the importance of edge site availability for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving BOH groups from BO species with steam assistance, optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes and preventing overoxidation, offering multiple pathways for light alkanes to olefins conversion. This comprehensive understanding is essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for optimized catalysts that balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation. Understanding and controlling these pathways can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and facilitates the design of more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, like h-BN, uniquely catalyze ODHP reactions with minimal CO2 formation, selectively cleaving CH bonds in alkanes. This contrasts with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase hinder understanding, yet identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is crucial. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is essential for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts due to gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, caused by enhanced surface contribution [6], suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions [3]. Constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions could optimize catalysts for higher activity and selectivity [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is key to this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, as observed by SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane ODH, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network and suggests optimizing both phases for improved catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains unique product distributions. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, is pivotal. This synergy, highlighted by catalytic measurements and quantum calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, minimize interactions with intermediates and products, and prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, emphasizing the importance of free-radical chemistry. This understanding guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in B-based catalysts acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation. This structure's role in a multidimensional reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network with synergistic effects that could enhance catalyst performance and guide design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently balancing these reactions, leading to improved selectivity and activity. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, requiring a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to manage surface and gas-phase reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity, as evidenced by the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst's high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, which stabilizes active boron species and effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges facilitated by ethane and O2, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for efficient paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reaction types is essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized catalyst design. Balancing these reactions can enhance efficiency and selectivity, minimizing undesired byproducts and maximizing desired product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The synergy between these reactions enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing efficient B-based catalysts, as seen in the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism where alkyl radicals formed on the surface further react in the gas phase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, notably hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), selectively catalyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with minimal CO2 formation, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. The mechanism involves surface-mediated radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions, offering a unique pathway for CH bond cleavage in alkanes. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is key to optimizing catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest the need for a comprehensive approach to catalyst design. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts (Quote [2]). A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity results from limited gas-phase reactions (Quote [3]). Constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is elucidated by the first experimental evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals using SVUV-PIMS. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These insights highlight synergistic effects crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, essential for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimizing both reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The surface of boron-based catalysts plays a critical role in generating reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. This multidimensional understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites, which efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of these reactions suggest a complex network with implications for catalyst performance and design, though specific optimization strategies remain unexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion, and optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can improve performance. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while high propylene productivity under high GHSV conditions suggests effective management of gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. This understanding guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, focusing on maximizing edge sites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase radical reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to more efficient and selective conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, crucial for design optimization. Understanding and controlling both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for efficient catalyst development, maximizing desired product formation and minimizing byproducts. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation with gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation, enhancing overall efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy is significant for enhancing understanding and designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge understanding, yet insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are crucial. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires comprehensive understanding. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase radical reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as demonstrated by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, attributed to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts have limited gas-phase reaction contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for optimizing ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, observed using SVUV-PIMS, reveals gas-phase pathways, enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily through surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, offering insights into selective alkane conversions. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalysts, and highlights the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions. The complexity of this oxidation leads to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and reveal guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The potential synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design. However, specific details on optimizing these synergies for improved performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst achieves high propylene productivity by efficiently dispersing the catalytically active B2O3 layer on the modified SiO2@HC support and improving mass transfer through its honeycomb structure. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, with the synergistic effects contributing to multiple conversion pathways. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can lead to improved performance in terms of propylene productivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts is crucial for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, optimizing catalyst performance. Synergistic effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, shutting off overoxidation pathways and providing multiple routes for alkane conversion to olefins, essential for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity, influencing catalyst selectivity and activity. Synergistic effects suggest optimizing both surface and gas-phase processes for efficient catalysts, balancing olefin formation and minimizing overoxidation. Understanding these pathways is crucial for developing selective and stable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates and the need for effective coupling to achieve high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation in the gas phase, is crucial for understanding and optimizing the reaction network. Synergizing surface and gas radical reactions enhances the ODHP mechanism's comprehension and facilitates the design of more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, notably h-BN, selectively catalyze the ODHP reaction with minimal CO2 formation, a contrast to traditional vanadium-based catalysts. The mechanism involves surface-mediated radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions, offering a unique pathway for selective CH bond cleavage in alkanes. Understanding which species ensure high conversion and selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, indicates the limited role of gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site contributes to high olefin selectivity, while the one-dimensional nature of the edge avoids overreactive propyl radical formation and suppresses overoxidation. This knowledge guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest varied reaction mechanisms. These findings are crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane ODH, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains the unique product distribution. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation, as highlighted in quote [1], contribute to this distribution. This understanding, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, as stated in quote [8]. Minimizing strong interactions with intermediates and products prevents fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions, as emphasized in quote [6], guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, as mentioned in quote [10], and contrasts with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms, as noted in quote [11]. The boron-initiated mechanism, as explained in quote [12], involves the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. This multidimensional mechanism provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials, as stated in quote [9], and reveals guidelines for catalyst optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    