Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's ability to activate molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions. These effects may have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimization are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. The synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing the rates of surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its optimized design and high surface area, demonstrates the importance of managing these reactions for improved propylene productivity and selectivity. The literature highlights the role of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species, relating to surface reactions, and the effective management of gas-phase reactions under high GHSV conditions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex reaction pathways and synergistic effects that influence catalyst selectivity and activity. Understanding and optimizing these reactions can lead to more efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation while minimizing byproducts, requiring a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is pivotal for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy is crucial for enhancing ODHP mechanism understanding and optimizing B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is crucial. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted for optimized catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase radical reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity via gas-phase chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, catalyzed by VOx sites, highlights the role of enhanced surface contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for high activity and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and avoid overoxidation and creation of highly reactive propyl radicals, typical issues in 0D and 2D catalysts. This insight guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, underscoring the existence of gas-phase pathways. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These insights, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, are vital for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions have significant implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This contrasts sharply with vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, guiding the development of more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design can lead to improved performance. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the high propylene productivity under high GHSV conditions indicates effective management of gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. This understanding guides the development of efficient and selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, focusing on maximizing edge sites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. Synergistic effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, enhancing conversion to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is key to developing efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for balanced design to maximize olefin formation while minimizing overoxidation. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process, emphasizing the importance of understanding both surface and gas-phase chemistry for efficient and selective catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is pivotal for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between these reactions enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and olefin selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for optimizing B-based catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase radical reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as demonstrated by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity might stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This is due to the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms on the surface from propane activation, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest varied mechanisms, crucial for catalyst design. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimizing both reaction types could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites, which efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of these reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently dispersing the catalytically active B2O3 layer on the modified SiO2@HC support, improving mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions provides multiple pathways for propane conversion, crucial for understanding the overall reaction network. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can improve propylene productivity and selectivity. The synergistic effects contribute to the reaction network, influencing catalyst selectivity and activity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions under high GHSV conditions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, leading to the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay facilitates selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions. Maximizing edge sites for improved performance is crucial, as evidenced by the literature's emphasis on edge B atoms for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. These effects optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for light alkanes to convert to olefins. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface and gas-phase processes, maximizing desired product formation while minimizing overoxidation and byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the division into surface and gas radical reactions, is essential for understanding the reaction network. The surface acts as an initiator for alkyl radicals, which further react in the gas phase, as per the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism. The effective coupling of these processes is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions enhances the understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge the understanding of ODHP over h-BN. Identifying species for high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into surface-gas-phase synergies is warranted for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts improving ODHP via gas-phase radical chemistry. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests lower activity in zeolite-based catalysts may stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and avoid overoxidation, typical issues with other catalysts. This insight guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design optimization and selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are essential for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, reveals a multidimensional network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation explain the unique product distribution. This understanding, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to the gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation and leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion, with optimized catalyst design crucial for selectivity and productivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, crucial for catalyst performance and design, highlight the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, emphasizing the importance of edge site availability for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as critical catalytic activity sites. The synergistic effects of these reactions optimize performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for light alkanes to olefins conversion. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the complex reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting the need for a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, leading to more efficient catalysts with improved selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in surface-active sites and the 3-D gas phase, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of these processes is vital for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase, is central to this synergy. Achieving this synergy significantly enhances the understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase have hindered understanding, yet optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive grasp of these synergistic effects. Further investigation into the surface-gas-phase synergies is crucial for designing more efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity, as demonstrated by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, enhanced by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, leading to high olefin selectivity. This insight, supported by the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms from surface CH activation, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects offer potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. Specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by balancing surface and gas-phase reactions, leading to improved selectivity and activity. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions can enhance propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, crucial for understanding the overall reaction network. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst's design, with high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges facilitated by ethane and O2, highlight the need for controlled ethane and oxygen activation. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes, while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for alkane conversion to olefins. Understanding both reaction types is crucial for developing efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. Synergistic effects influence selectivity and activity, guiding optimized catalyst design for enhanced efficiency and product yield. Understanding both surface and gas-phase processes is key to controlling selectivity and minimizing overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Complex radical networks in the gas phase hinder understanding, but insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are crucial. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, indicates that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity might stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with exposed boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, observed via SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily on the catalyst surface, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, highlighting the potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network and suggests optimizing both for improved catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of radical chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of reactive boron species. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and reveal guidelines for more efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's ability to activate molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The literature lacks specifics on optimizing these synergies for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, offering multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Optimizing the balance between surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst exemplifies this, achieving high propylene productivity through efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the design manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity, demonstrating the importance of catalyst design in optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, crucial for catalyst performance and design, emphasize controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, optimizing olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with BOH groups from BO species acting as catalytic activity sites. Synergistic effects of these reactions optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes and preventing overoxidation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for efficient catalyst design. Optimizing catalysts to balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is pivotal for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation that further reacts in the gas phase, is a key aspect. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights, yet understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity results from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is key to this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane ODH, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This multidimensionality has significant implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting potential improvements in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms, guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions, crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The literature suggests that the synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions could lead to a more complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimizing these effects are lacking.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, offering multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing the rates of surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in managing these reactions for optimized performance and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges facilitated by ethane, and hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for efficient paraffin ODHP reactions, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation for improved catalyst efficiency and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. These effects optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, essential for efficient light alkane conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is vital for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the complex reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation is crucial for efficient catalysts. Optimizing catalysts to facilitate desired radical reactions while minimizing side reactions improves the oxidative dehydrogenation process's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Synergizing these reactions enhances understanding and optimizes B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN and B-based catalysts open new pathways for selective alkane conversion. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. Limited gas-phase reactions can result in lower catalytic activity over zeolite-based catalysts, highlighting the importance of enhanced gas-phase reactions for activation. Constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are critical for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, coupled with gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions in catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts and reveals the synergistic effects crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    