Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in activating molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, impacting selectivity and activity. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity, as shown by the monolithic catalyst's ability to suppress overoxidation under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. This understanding guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, optimizing olefin yields and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized catalyst design. Understanding and controlling these reactions can enhance the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Optimizing B-based catalysts requires a comprehensive grasp of the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions, offering new avenues for selective alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. The observation of a reaction order dependent on propane partial pressure suggests that zeolite-based catalysts have limited gas-phase reaction contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and guide the design of efficient, selective catalysts. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of understanding and leveraging synergistic effects for optimized catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy has profound implications for catalyst performance and design, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on the generation of reactive species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The contrast with vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species and avoid strong interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps, as suggested by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network with potential implications for catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on how these synergistic effects contribute to the overall reaction network and how they can be optimized for better catalyst performance are lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network and optimizing catalyst performance. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates this by achieving high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, affecting surface reactions, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the significance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation for selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation pathways, crucial for efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface and gas-phase processes. Understanding and controlling these pathways can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process, emphasizing the importance of both surface properties and gas-phase chemistry in catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy, enhancing understanding and design of B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for optimized catalyst design, as highlighted by recent discoveries with hexagonal boron nitride and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, recognized as crucial alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity [1]. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through enhanced gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, observed due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites [6], suggests that limited gas-phase reactions contribute to lower catalytic activity in zeolite-based catalysts. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, indicating gas-phase pathways and offering new insights into ODHP mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, highlighting selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, deepening our understanding of synergistic effects for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting dual optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. This understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. Synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions contribute to the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing these reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity and suppressed overoxidation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, crucial for surface reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, leading to the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay facilitates selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions. Maximizing edge sites for improved performance is crucial, as evidenced by the literature's emphasis on edge B atoms for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase radical reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with BOH groups acting as catalytic activity sites. Synergistic effects of these reactions optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for efficient catalyst design. Balancing these reactions can maximize desired product formation while minimizing overoxidation and undesired byproducts, leading to improved catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the reaction's occurrence in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and selectivity. Achieving synergy between these processes is significant for enhancing ODHP mechanism understanding and designing effective B-based catalysts, as the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with low CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for optimizing B-based catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity might stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, due to the one-dimensional nature of the edge, contributes to high olefin selectivity and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional, enhancing our understanding of the reaction network. SVUV-PIMS evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions offer potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst efficiency and selectivity through synergistic effects, crucial for optimized design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, as highlighted by the outstanding product distribution enabled by the gas-phase component of the reaction network.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's ability to activate molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which may enhance catalyst performance and offer opportunities for design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, and optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, and the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the significance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, leading to the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay facilitates selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene, guiding the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions. Optimizing catalyst performance and olefin yields becomes possible through a deeper understanding of these multidimensional reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, has synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to efficient conversion to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is key to developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized catalyst design. Balancing these reactions can enhance efficiency and selectivity in olefin production while minimizing overoxidation and undesired byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, necessitates a comprehensive understanding of the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, highlights the synergy between surface and gas reactions, essential for optimized B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalysis. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as evidenced by enhanced ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts through gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. This highlights the synergistic effects of integrating both reaction types. To optimize catalysts, constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids overreactive propyl radical formation and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals the existence of gas-phase pathways, enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene is predominantly formed from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products can arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are significant for catalyst performance and design optimization, offering insights into selective alkane conversions akin to other redox-poor oxides. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The multidimensional nature of the reaction, highlighted by the gas-phase component, enables outstanding product distribution and guides the development of more selective catalysts. This framework is crucial for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in achieving high productivity and selectivity. The complex interplay between reactions provides multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, emphasizing the need for optimized catalyst design to manage these reactions effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions, demonstrated by ethane's role in forming active sites and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2 assistance, guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for combustion-free paraffin ODHP reactions. This understanding is crucial for developing more efficient and selective catalysts, potentially improving olefin yields and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with BOH groups from BO species acting as catalytic activity sites. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, leading to more efficient and selective catalysts for converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network's complexity. Synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, influencing selectivity and activity. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the reaction's 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radicals for gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and design of more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN catalysts, with active oxygenated boron species, selectively catalyze ODH reactions. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted to optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests limited gas-phase reaction contribution in zeolite-based catalysts. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanism. Propene is predominantly formed from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts indicate differing reaction mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, offering a deeper understanding of the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a holistic view of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, indicating potential for enhanced catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, coupled with gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, distinct from vanadium-based catalysts, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. Computational studies reveal the complexity of surface changes and oxidation, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. This understanding provides a mechanistic framework for designing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, with implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, although specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer by the honeycomb structure. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, requiring a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can lead to improved propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, highlighting the importance of surface reactions, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially enhancing catalyst performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient and selective conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for design optimization. Understanding and balancing surface and gas-phase reactions can lead to more efficient catalysts, maximizing desired product formation and minimizing byproducts. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions requires considering both surface properties and gas-phase chemistry for improved efficiency and selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which together offer a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. The reaction's 3-D nature, occurring in both surface-active sites and the gas phase, highlights its complexity. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. Synergizing these reactions significantly enhances the understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by recent discoveries with hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, enhanced by VOx sites, underscores the importance of surface contribution. This highlights the potential for constructing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts by focusing on highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. The synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity and avoid overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, as revealed by SVUV-PIMS, underscores the existence of gas-phase pathways. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts highlight differing reaction mechanisms. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, as they elucidate synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions, essential for optimizing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests that optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveal guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with potential implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently managing surface and gas-phase reactions, which must be balanced to maximize propylene yield and minimize CO2 formation. The synergistic effects of these reactions contribute to the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can lead to improved propylene productivity and selectivity. The literature highlights the role of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species, crucial for surface reactions, and the monolithic catalyst design's effectiveness in managing gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane conversion to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergistic effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, enhancing catalyst efficiency and selectivity for alkane conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst performance, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for high selectivity and efficiency. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving the oxidative dehydrogenation process's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation in the gas phase, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and facilitates the design of more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalysis. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst design requires comprehensive understanding. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts through gas-phase radical chemistry. This highlights the importance of enhancing gas-phase reactions and constructing highly exposed active boron centers for the development of highly active and selective ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is key to this selectivity, guiding the design of more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms, with propene primarily formed from surface reactions and C1/C2 products via both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, highlighting the potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, highlighting the synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    