Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while high GHSV conditions manage gas-phase reactions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation for selective ethane conversion. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes and preventing overoxidation pathways, leading to more efficient and selective catalysts for converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface and gas-phase processes for enhanced selectivity and efficiency. Understanding these pathways can lead to more efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation while minimizing byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to understanding and optimizing the B-based catalytic system.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge understanding, yet insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are key to efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system, as indicated by recent discoveries on hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts due to gas-phase radical chemistry. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts correlate with lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions facilitate propane activation, leading to higher reaction order. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, observed due to VOx site catalysis, supports this. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for high activity and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, observed using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene is predominantly formed from surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network and suggests optimizing both aspects for improved catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, while minimizing interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation and leading to various boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The potential synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network with implications for catalyst performance and design. However, literature lacks specifics on optimizing these effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, impacting selectivity and activity. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges, facilitated by ethane, and hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Controlling ethane and oxygen activation at the edges of boron nitride catalysts is key, emphasizing the importance of surface properties and gas-phase conditions for efficient and selective catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, affecting selectivity and activity. Understanding and balancing both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation and minimize overoxidation and byproduct formation. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions requires a focus on promoting olefin formation while controlling undesired side reactions, improving the overall efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide on the catalyst surface initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase, is key to understanding and optimizing the catalytic system.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires comprehensive understanding. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in the enhanced ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. The observation of NO formation and a 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, catalyzed by VOx sites, underscores the role of gas-phase reactions. This suggests that constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, leading to high olefin selectivity. This insight, supported by the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, discovered using SVUV-PIMS, reveals gas-phase radical pathways, enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene is predominantly formed via surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. These insights are crucial for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance and suggests optimizing both reactions for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests that optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions. The multidimensionality of the mechanism, highlighted by the role of boron in initiating gas-phase reactions, contrasts with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed, and the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to the gas-phase radical chemistry. These insights provide a framework for future studies and catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with potential synergistic effects. However, the literature lacks specifics on how these effects contribute to the overall network or how they can be optimized for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions contribute to the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing these reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the honeycomb structure improves mass transfer, effectively managing gas-phase reactions to suppress overoxidation and achieve high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene. This knowledge guides the rational design of efficient, selective nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, has synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation. This comprehensive understanding is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts for light alkanes conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized design. Balancing these reactions can improve efficiency and selectivity in olefin production while minimizing overoxidation and undesired byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radicals for gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding and design of effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase have hindered understanding, but insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are crucial. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in h-BN and B2O3-based catalysts. VOx-modified BN catalysts enhance ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts have limited gas-phase reaction contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This 1D nature avoids highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are critical for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting integrated optimization for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains unique product distributions. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation, as highlighted in Quotes 1 and 6, contribute to this understanding. Optimal ODH catalysts, as per Quote 8, should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight, supported by Quote 12, guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with implications for catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst's efficient dispersion and firm attachment, alongside improved mass transfer, contribute to high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, highlighting the importance of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species for surface reactions and the monolithic design's effective management of gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the control of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, crucial for catalyst performance. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. This knowledge guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin conversion to olefins, emphasizing the importance of maximizing edge sites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off overoxidation pathways, offering multiple routes for converting light alkanes to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity, influencing catalyst performance and design. Synergistic effects suggest optimizing surface reactions for olefin formation while controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between these reactions enhances understanding and catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Complex radical networks hinder understanding, yet identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalysts require a comprehensive approach. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by recent discoveries with h-BN and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts correlate with lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions, however, facilitate propane activation and higher reaction order. The observation of a 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site catalysis, supports this. To optimize catalysts, focusing on highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is recommended.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This 1D edge avoids creating highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, providing insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Their synergistic effects significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts integrates surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhancing our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, minimizing interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. This insight guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveal guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with potential synergistic effects, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergies for improved performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. The synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, offering multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing the rates of surface and gas-phase reactions is key to maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Optimizing catalyst design to balance surface and gas-phase reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The literature highlights the role of the first coated SiO2 layer in stabilizing active boron species, related to surface reactions, and the monolithic catalyst design's effectiveness in managing gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between reactions at BN edges and in the gas phase are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization. BO(H) active sites, facilitated by ethane, enable selective ethane oxidative dehydrogenation to ethylene with high conversion and selectivity. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation. Maximizing edge sites in B-based catalysts for improved performance is a key design consideration.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase radical reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. The synergistic effects of these reactions optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. Synergistic effects influence selectivity and activity, necessitating balanced catalyst design to maximize desired product formation and minimize byproducts. Understanding and controlling both surface and gas-phase reactions can significantly enhance the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The synergy between these reactions significantly enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism, aiding in designing more effective B-based catalysts. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation, is key to this synergistic effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is crucial. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst design requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts [2]. This highlights the importance of integrating both reaction types for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. The construction of highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for developing selective alkane conversion catalysts, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, offering significant implications for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network and suggests optimizing both aspects for improved catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation leading to various boron species with different reactivities. These insights provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex network with potential synergistic effects. However, the literature lacks specific details on how these effects contribute to the overall reaction network or how they can be optimized for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. Optimizing the balance between surface and gas-phase reactions can maximize propylene yield and minimize CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites facilitated by ethane and O2, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for efficient paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, demonstrates synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergies facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, prevent overoxidation, and provide multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins, crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst performance, suggesting the need for optimized design to balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation and gas-phase reactions minimizing overoxidation, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism where alkyl radicals are initiated on the catalyst surface and react in the gas phase, is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions significantly enhances our understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge understanding, yet insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are key to efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation is warranted to fully comprehend the surface-gas-phase synergies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions are crucial, influencing overall catalytic activity as observed in h-BN and B2O3-based catalysts. VOx-modified BN catalysts, through gas-phase radical chemistry, improve ODHP activity, as evidenced by the formation of NO. This highlights the synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions on catalytic performance. The construction of highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is crucial for this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, discovered using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. The synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, and are essential for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimizing both reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, coupled with their propagation in the gas phase, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that favor secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in activating molecular oxygen and propane suggests a complex reaction network due to synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase radical reactions, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The literature lacks specifics on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The complex interplay between these reactions influences the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity, as shown by the catalyst's performance under high GHSV conditions, which suppresses overoxidation and increases olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the significance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites for selective ethane conversion to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially enhancing catalyst performance and olefin yields. Edge B atoms in BN nanosheets are crucial for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation, suggesting design strategies for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation. This comprehensive understanding is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for understanding catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation is necessary for efficient catalysts. Optimizing catalysts to facilitate desired radical reactions while minimizing side reactions improves the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, is pivotal for understanding the reaction network. The division into surface and gas radical reactions underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of these processes is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase have hindered understanding, but insights into species ensuring high conversion and selectivity are crucial. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for a full comprehension of the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions are crucial alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts, where NO formation was observed. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, catalyzed by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by nitroxyl radical sites, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. This contrasts with 1D edge avoiding highly reactive propyl radical creation and 2D surface catalysts suppressing overoxidation. This knowledge guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. Synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst design and optimization, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are essential for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation leading to various boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    