Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. Synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, necessitating a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. The B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its optimized design and high surface area, demonstrates high propylene productivity by stabilizing active boron species and managing gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity. Understanding and optimizing these reactions is crucial for catalyst design and performance improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Edge B atoms in BN nanosheets are crucial for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation, suggesting design strategies for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation. This comprehensive understanding is essential for developing efficient, selective catalysts for converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for comprehensive understanding and catalyst optimization. Synergistic effects influence selectivity and activity, suggesting balanced design to maximize desired products and minimize byproducts. Efficient catalysts require consideration of both surface reactions for olefin formation and control of gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates and the need for effective coupling to achieve high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is crucial for understanding and optimizing the catalytic system.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN catalysts, with active oxygenated boron species, selectively catalyze ODH reactions. Understanding species that ensure high conversion and selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts improving ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites [6], suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity might stem from limited gas-phase reactions. Optimizing catalyst design could involve constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, discovered using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enriches our understanding of the reaction network. This synergy impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, indicating potential for enhanced catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their gas-phase propagation explain the unique product distribution. This synergy is crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on reactive species generation and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical chemistry. Optimal catalysts should favor secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and prevent fast surface oxidation steps, leading to enhanced selectivity and efficiency in the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's ability to activate molecular oxygen and propane suggests a multidimensional reaction mechanism involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. The synergistic effects of these reactions could lead to a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. The synergistic effects of these reactions have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, potentially improving selectivity and activity. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions is crucial for understanding the overall network, and optimizing catalyst design to balance their contributions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation and selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving BOH groups, optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding these synergistic effects is essential for designing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting the need for a balance between surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation. Understanding and optimizing these pathways can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy, enhancing understanding and design of B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and olefin selectivity is key to efficient catalytic systems. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into surface-gas-phase synergies is warranted for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall activity, as seen in the enhanced ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. Limited gas-phase reactions can lead to lower catalytic activity in zeolite-based catalysts, while enhanced gas-phase reactions improve propane activation and reaction order. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to VOx site catalysis, suggests strategies for constructing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts, focusing on active boron centers and gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily on the surface, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, enabling selective alkane conversions and informing the development of highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This multidimensionality has significant implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting that optimizing both reaction types could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. This understanding guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the generation of reactive species and minimizing interactions with intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The complex interplay between these reactions contributes to the overall reaction network, offering multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its optimized B2O3 loading and high surface area, demonstrates high propylene productivity by balancing surface and gas-phase reactions, which is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The synergistic effects of these reactions enhance catalyst selectivity and activity, as seen in the stabilization of active boron species by the first coated SiO2 layer and the effective management of gas-phase reactions under high GHSV conditions, leading to suppressed overoxidation and high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. This understanding guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase radical reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with BOH groups serving as key catalytic activity sites. Synergistic effects of these reactions optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes and preventing overoxidation, leading to more efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst performance and design optimization, impacting selectivity and activity. Understanding and balancing both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient catalysts that maximize desired product formation while minimizing byproducts. Optimizing catalysts for these reactions requires a focus on promoting surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation, improving the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for gas-phase reactions, exemplifies this synergy. Achieving this synergy is crucial for enhancing ODHP mechanism understanding and optimizing B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts, notably those with active oxygenated boron species, selectively catalyze the ODHP reaction with minimal CO2 formation, offering a unique pathway for CH bond cleavage in alkanes (Quote 1). This mechanism, involving surface-mediated radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions, contrasts with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on traditional vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 2). Understanding which species ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems (Quote 4). The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest that optimizing B-based catalysts requires a comprehensive understanding of the interplay between these domains. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in the enhanced ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts due to gas-phase radical chemistry [2]. This highlights the potential for optimizing catalyst design by constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions [7], addressing the limited contribution of gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site is crucial for this selectivity, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional, enhancing our understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, discovered using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst optimization, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their propagation in the gas phase explain the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of radical chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and reveal guidelines for more selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The potential synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these synergies for improved performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment, demonstrates high propylene productivity. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for maximizing propylene yield and minimizing CO2 formation. The complex interplay between these reactions contributes to the overall network, offering multiple conversion pathways. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are key to understanding the reaction network and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This complex interplay guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Understanding these multidimensional reactions can lead to more efficient and selective catalysts for the conversion of paraffins to olefins, emphasizing the role of edge B atoms in O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergies facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is crucial for developing efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for balanced design to maximize desired product formation while minimizing overoxidation. Understanding and controlling both surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy. Understanding and optimizing this mechanism is significant for designing efficient B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. h-BN's exceptional product distribution is attributed to this multidimensional mechanism, though complex radical networks hinder understanding. Identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive approach. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, enhanced by VOx sites, underscores the role of surface contribution. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids overreactive propyl radical formation and suppresses overoxidation, guiding efficient and selective catalyst design for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. This multidimensionality, differing from metal oxide-based catalysts, highlights the potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimizing both areas could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation explain the unique product distribution. This synergy has implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on generating reactive species that favor secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and avoid strong interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing a variety of boron species with different reactivities. This understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with potential implications for catalyst performance and design optimization. The synergistic effects of these reactions could enhance catalytic performance, offering avenues for optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, impacting selectivity and activity. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation. The complex interplay is essential for understanding the reaction network, and optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance performance in terms of productivity and selectivity. The design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity and suppressed overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, highlighting the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. BO(H) active site formation, facilitated by ethane, enables selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. This understanding guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin to olefin conversion, emphasizing the importance of edge site availability for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This facilitates CH bond cleavage in alkanes, shutting off overoxidation pathways and CO2 formation, thus enhancing conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reactions is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for efficient catalyst design. Optimizing catalysts to balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The synergy between these reactions enhances understanding of the mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalysts. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is pivotal for this synergistic effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. This multidimensional approach, though complex, offers insights into high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity, crucial for efficient catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted to optimize catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts through gas-phase radical chemistry. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for achieving high activity and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, supported by the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, underscoring the existence of gas-phase pathways and enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, offering insights into selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of understanding and leveraging the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting that optimizing both reaction types could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. The synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions has profound implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on the generation of reactive species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. This understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for more efficient ODH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure effectively activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization, although specific optimization details are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity due to efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The synergistic effects provide multiple conversion pathways, crucial for understanding the reaction network. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, and the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating the formation of BO(H) active sites. This interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions, demonstrated by ethane's role in BO(H) site formation and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2 assistance, guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions. Understanding these mechanisms can lead to improved catalyst performance and optimized olefin yields, emphasizing the need for efficient and selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects. These effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, prevent overoxidation, and provide multiple pathways for alkane conversion to olefins, crucial for efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized catalyst design. Balancing surface reactions for olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to prevent overoxidation can enhance catalyst efficiency and selectivity. Understanding and optimizing these pathways is crucial for developing more efficient B-based catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is critical for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions enhances understanding and catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, differing from vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge understanding, yet identifying species for high conversion and selectivity is key. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalysts require a holistic approach. Further research is needed to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by the exceptional product distribution on h-BN catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the significance of gas-phase reactions in addition to surface-catalyzed pathways. This multidimensionality improves ODHP activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts, and suggests that the construction of highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is key to developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts. The observation of a 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, indicates that limited gas-phase reactions contribute to lower catalytic activity in zeolite-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, providing insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily on the surface, while C1/C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design, offering potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances catalyst efficiency and selectivity, crucial for optimized design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes and the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, focusing on the generation of reactive species that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of oxidation and the variety of boron species with different reactivities. These findings provide a mechanistic framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions, activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This multidimensional mechanism, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests a complex reaction network with implications for catalyst performance. However, literature lacks specifics on optimizing synergistic effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the B2O3 layer on the modified SiO2@HC support, achieves high propylene productivity. The honeycomb structure improves mass transfer, facilitating the complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions. Balancing these reactions maximizes propylene yield while minimizing CO2 formation, demonstrating the catalyst's ability to manage gas-phase reactions effectively, leading to high olefin selectivity and suppressed overoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, emphasizing the control of ethane and oxygen activation at boron nitride edges. The formation of BO(H) active sites, facilitated by ethane, and the subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2 assistance, highlight the complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions. This knowledge guides the development of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially improving catalyst performance and olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is key to enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites. These synergistic effects facilitate CH bond cleavage in alkanes, prevent overoxidation, and provide multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins, crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions impact catalyst performance, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for high selectivity and efficiency. Optimizing catalysts requires balancing surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving the oxidative dehydrogenation process's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions in both 1- and 2-D surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, is crucial for understanding the reaction network. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions is essential for high activity and propene selectivity. Achieving this synergy enhances the understanding of the ODHP mechanism and aids in designing more effective B-based catalytic systems, as proposed by the mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalysis. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimized catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay, warranting further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, indicates the importance of gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, observed using SVUV-PIMS, reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. These findings are significant for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions that can optimize catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting that enhancing both reaction types could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalyst mechanisms. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    