Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contribute to our understanding of the overall reaction network, and what are the implications of their synergistic effects for catalyst performance and design optimization?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism in B-based catalysts: Integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions for a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance and synergistic effects.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity, attributed to the efficient dispersion of B2O3 and improved mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to manage these reactions could enhance propylene productivity and selectivity. The complex interplay and synergistic effects have implications for catalyst performance, as they influence selectivity and activity. The design of the B2O3/SiO2@HC catalyst, with its high surface area and optimized B2O3 loading, is a successful approach to achieving high propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites by ethane and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is crucial for catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase radical reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the synergistic effects of these reactions. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while shutting off pathways to overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient and selective conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the complex reaction network. Synergistic effects influence catalyst performance, suggesting the need for optimization to balance surface and gas-phase processes for improved selectivity and efficiency. This comprehensive approach aids in developing more efficient catalysts by controlling radical reactions and minimizing side reactions, crucial for maximizing desired product yield.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where the boron oxide/hydroxide phase initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding and design of effective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds with minimal CO2 formation, differing from traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is critical. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts integrates surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlighting the significance of gas-phase reactions for overall catalytic activity. VOx-modified BN catalysts demonstrate improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests limited gas-phase reaction contribution in zeolite-based catalysts. Constructing highly exposed active boron centers and enhancing gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for developing highly active and selective ODHP catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals, observed via SVUV-PIMS, reveals gas-phase radical pathways, enhancing our understanding of the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily through surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, offering insights into selective alkane conversions. These findings are pivotal for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This insight, supported by catalytic measurements and quantum calculations, suggests optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products. The multidimensional nature of the reaction mechanism provides a framework for future studies and guidelines for developing more selective and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as the active center for the ODHP reaction, efficiently activating molecular oxygen and propane for dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects that could impact catalyst performance. However, specific details on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved catalyst design are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity under oxidative dehydrogenation of propane conditions, attributed to the efficient dispersion of the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improved mass transfer by the honeycomb structure. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, such as the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges facilitated by ethane, and the subsequent hydrogen abstraction from ethane with O2 assistance, highlight the complex interplay between reactions. This understanding is crucial for controlling ethane and oxygen activation, guiding the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for improved performance and optimized olefin yields in paraffin ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, thus enhancing conversion to olefins. Understanding these reactions is key to developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting a balanced approach in design to maximize desired product formation and minimize byproducts. Understanding and controlling both surface and gas-phase processes is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radicals for gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between these reactions enhances understanding and catalytic system design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase have hindered understanding, but insights into species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity are crucial. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted to fully comprehend the system.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact catalytic activity, as seen in the improved ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests that zeolite-based catalysts' lower activity may result from limited gas-phase reactions. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalyst performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids creating a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, highlighting the existence of gas-phase pathways and offering new insights into the reaction mechanism. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, whereas C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. The distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are crucial for catalyst performance and design optimization, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, facilitating selective alkane conversions and guiding the development of highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network and suggests optimizing both for improved catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, explains the unique product distribution. Metastable sites facilitate radical formation, which propagates in the gas phase, as evidenced by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations. This synergy is crucial for catalyst performance, guiding the design of optimal ODH catalysts that generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane, while minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The gas-phase component enables outstanding product distribution, contrasting sharply with vanadium-based catalysts. Computational studies reveal the complexity of surface oxidation, leading to various boron species with differing reactivities. This understanding provides a framework for future studies and the development of more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers around the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of these reactions suggest a complex network with implications for catalyst performance, though specific optimization strategies remain unexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the B2O3 layer on the modified SiO2@HC support, achieves high propylene productivity. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions contribute to the overall reaction network, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene. Balancing these reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the honeycomb structure improves mass transfer. Under high GHSV conditions, the catalyst effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, forming BO(H) active sites for selective ethane dehydrogenation to ethylene. This insight guides the design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, improving performance and olefin yields. Controlling surface properties and gas-phase conditions is crucial for optimized catalysts, as demonstrated by the complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions in the ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts contributes to the overall reaction network, with BOH groups from BO species and steam acting as catalytic activity sites. This synergy optimizes catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for converting light alkanes to olefins. Understanding both reaction dimensions is crucial for developing efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interconnectivity, influencing catalyst selectivity and activity. Synergistic effects suggest optimized catalyst design must balance surface reactions favoring olefin formation with controlled gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation, improving overall efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between surface and gas reactions significantly enhances understanding and design of B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2, contrasting with traditional vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase hinder understanding, emphasizing the need for species identification to ensure high conversion and selectivity. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into surface-gas-phase synergies is crucial for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity, as demonstrated by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. Limited gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts correlate with lower propane reaction order and catalytic activity. Enhanced gas-phase reactions, however, facilitate propane activation and higher reaction order. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, observed due to VOx site catalysis, supports this. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions is a promising strategy for optimizing ODHP catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its synergistic effects, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, significantly contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, offers a comprehensive understanding of catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing reaction mechanisms. Synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions highlight potential for selective alkane conversions, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of catalytic performance. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This synergy, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface reactions in catalyst performance (Quote 1, 3, 6). The gas-phase component enables the outstanding product distribution observed with B-based catalysts (Quote 10). Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast surface oxidation (Quote 8). This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts, contrasting sharply with mechanisms proposed for vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 11). The oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODH conditions is closely linked to gas-phase radical chemistry, revealing the complexity of boron species reactivity (Quote 16). This multidimensional understanding provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveals guidelines for developing more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, centers on the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites. This structure activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network with implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, though specific details on optimizing these effects are lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst, with its efficient dispersion and firm attachment of the catalytically active B2O3 layer, achieves high propylene productivity. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, requiring a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. Optimizing catalyst design to balance these reactions can improve propylene productivity and selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, while the monolithic catalyst design effectively manages gas-phase reactions, leading to high olefin selectivity under high GHSV conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges by ethane and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for efficient paraffin ODHP reactions, improving catalyst performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, optimizes catalyst performance through synergistic effects. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while preventing overoxidation and CO2 formation. This comprehensive understanding is crucial for developing efficient, selective catalysts for converting light alkanes to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights complex interplay crucial for understanding catalyst performance. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence selectivity and activity, suggesting a balanced catalyst design is necessary for optimal performance. Considering both surface and gas-phase processes is key to developing efficient and selective catalysts, maximizing desired product formation while minimizing overoxidation and byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy, enhancing catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, contrasting with the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. B-based catalysts, notably h-BN, demonstrate exceptional product distribution due to the synergy between surface-mediated radical formation and subsequent gas-phase reactions. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. The complex radical reaction networks in the gas phase require further investigation to fully comprehend the synergies involved in the surface-gas-phase reaction, essential for optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence catalytic activity, as seen in the enhanced ODHP activity via gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts. This highlights the importance of constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions for improved performance and selectivity. The synergistic effects of these reactions offer insights into catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. The 1D nature of the edge prevents the formation of a highly reactive propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This synergy, where the propyl radical is stabilized by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP and similar reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals reveals new insights into the mechanisms, with propene primarily formed from surface reactions and C1/C2 products via both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide-based catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, highlighting the potential for selective alkane conversions akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, offering deeper insights into synergistic effects for optimized performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, supported by catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, reveals dynamic surface changes beyond thermodynamically stable species. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions have profound implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, guiding the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on the generation of reactive species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. This insight provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials, emphasizing the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites as a critical active center. This structure efficiently activates molecular oxygen and propane, promoting dehydrogenation while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. However, specific details on optimizing these effects for better performance are not provided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences the overall reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions are crucial for understanding the network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by efficiently dispersing the catalytically active B2O3 layer and improving mass transfer. Balancing surface and gas-phase reactions maximizes propylene yield and minimizes CO2 formation, with the catalyst's design playing a pivotal role in achieving this balance. The complex interplay between reactions provides multiple pathways for propane conversion, highlighting the importance of optimizing catalyst design for improved performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects highlight the importance of controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges, facilitating BO(H) active site formation for selective ethane conversion to ethylene. This insight guides the rational design of efficient, selective catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, potentially improving performance and olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests synergistic effects that optimize catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, thus enhancing conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both surface and gas-phase reactions is essential for developing more efficient and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting the need for optimized design. Balancing surface reactions for olefin formation and controlling gas-phase reactions to minimize overoxidation can improve catalyst efficiency. Understanding and controlling these pathways is crucial for developing more efficient and selective B-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in 3-D space, highlights the interplay between intermediates. The effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key. Achieving synergy between these processes enhances understanding and facilitates the design of more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, unlike traditional vanadium-based catalysts. This multidimensional mechanism, involving complex radical networks, requires further investigation to optimize catalyst performance and design. Understanding species that ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is crucial for efficient catalytic systems. The synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest that optimizing B-based catalysts necessitates a comprehensive approach.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, which are crucial for comprehensive catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as evidenced by improved ODHP activity over VOx-modified BN catalysts. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites, suggests limited gas-phase reactions impact zeolite-based catalysts' performance. Constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize ODHP catalysts for higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of catalytic performance. Synergistic effects, like the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. The 1D nature of the edge avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, guiding the design of efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions are significant for catalyst performance and design, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO. These findings are pivotal for developing selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing our understanding of the synergistic effects for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions are crucial for optimizing catalyst performance and design, suggesting integrated optimization could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and subsequent gas-phase propagation explains the unique product distribution. This mechanism, unlike those for vanadium-based catalysts, involves the surface initiating a free-radical gas-phase reaction, crucial for outstanding product distribution. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps, guiding the development of more selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for the ODHP reaction, promoting dehydrogenation and hindering full boron hydrolysis. This structure's role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions suggests a complex reaction network with synergistic effects, which could influence catalyst performance and design optimization. The literature lacks specifics on optimizing these synergistic effects for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by balancing surface and gas-phase reactions, providing multiple pathways for propane conversion. Optimizing the catalyst design to manage these reactions can improve propylene selectivity and minimize over-oxidation to CO2. The complex interplay between surface and gas-phase reactions is crucial for understanding the overall reaction network, as highlighted by the literature's emphasis on the first coated SiO2 layer's role in stabilizing active boron species and the monolithic catalyst's effective management of gas-phase reactions under high GHSV conditions, leading to high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between reactions at BN edges, where BO(H) active sites form with ethane's aid, and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Controlling ethane and oxygen activation at BN edges is key, facilitating selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. Maximizing edge sites for O2 activation and ethane dehydrogenation is essential for B-based catalyst design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly impacts catalyst performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as critical catalytic activity sites. The synergistic effects of these reactions optimize performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage in alkanes while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, crucial for efficient and selective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects between these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for optimized catalyst design. Balancing these reactions can enhance efficiency and selectivity, minimizing undesired byproducts and maximizing desired product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, highlighted by reactions occurring in 3-D space, underscores the interplay between intermediates. Effective coupling of surface and gas reactions is crucial for high activity and propene selectivity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide initiates alkyl radical formation for further gas-phase reactions, is key to this synergy. Achieving this synergy enhances understanding and optimizes B-based catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface-mediated radical formation and gas-phase reactions, selectively cleaves CH bonds in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Complex radical networks in the gas phase challenge deeper insights into the ODHP over h-BN. Understanding species for high conversion and selectivity is key for efficient catalytic systems. Synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions suggest optimizing catalyst performance requires a comprehensive understanding of their interplay. Further investigation into these synergies is warranted for system comprehension.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. Gas-phase reactions, recognized as crucial alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly impact overall catalytic activity [1]. Wu's recent study [2] demonstrates improved ODHP activity through gas-phase radical chemistry over VOx-modified BN catalysts, evidenced by NO formation. A 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, due to enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites [6], suggests that limited gas-phase reactions contribute to lower catalytic activity in zeolite-based catalysts. Optimizing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could lead to more active and selective ODHP catalysts [7].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Its 1D nature avoids the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to high olefin selectivity. This insight, particularly the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, guides the design of more efficient and selective catalysts for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is multidimensional. SVUV-PIMS revealed gas-phase methyl radicals, highlighting gas-phase radical pathways and offering new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily via surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase reactions. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms, with implications for selective alkane conversions. These findings are crucial for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, emphasizing the synergistic effects between surface and gas-phase reactions for optimized catalyst performance and design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism's multidimensionality over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. This synergy significantly impacts catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimized reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. Surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites, followed by gas-phase propagation, explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective and efficient catalysts, emphasizing the synergy between surface and gas-phase reactions for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"},
{"DOC": "The B[OHO(H)Si]2 structure in borosilicate zeolites acts as an efficient active center for ODHP reactions over B-based catalysts, promoting dehydrogenation by activating molecular oxygen and propane while hindering full boron hydrolysis. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions suggest a complex reaction network, impacting catalyst performance and design optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abe7935"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly influences catalyst performance and design optimization. The B2O3/SiO2@HC monolithic catalyst demonstrates high propylene productivity by balancing these reactions, leading to improved selectivity and activity. The synergistic effects provide multiple pathways for propane conversion to propylene, requiring a balance to maximize yield and minimize CO2 formation. The catalyst's design, with optimized B2O3 loading and high surface area, effectively manages gas-phase reactions, suppressing overoxidation and enhancing olefin selectivity. The first coated SiO2 layer stabilizes active boron species, crucial for surface reactions, showcasing the importance of a well-designed catalyst in achieving high propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2020.07.040"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, encompassing surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, particularly the formation of BO(H) active sites at BN edges by ethane and subsequent hydrogen abstraction with O2 assistance, highlight the complex interplay crucial for catalyst performance. This knowledge guides the rational design of nonmetal catalysts for combustion-free paraffin ODHP reactions, aiming for improved performance and optimized olefin yields. Controlling ethane and oxygen activation at the edges of boron nitride catalysts is key, as it facilitates selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene with high selectivity and conversion. This understanding is pivotal for developing more efficient and selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, suggests synergistic effects crucial for catalytic performance. BOH groups, generated from BO species with steam assistance, act as catalytic activity sites, highlighting the role of these reactions in oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Synergistic effects optimize catalyst performance by facilitating CH bond cleavage while inhibiting overoxidation and CO2 formation, offering multiple pathways for alkane conversion to olefins. A comprehensive understanding of both reactions is essential for developing efficient, selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.11.014"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, highlights the complexity of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions influence catalyst selectivity and activity, suggesting that both surface and gas-phase processes must be considered for design optimization. Balancing these reactions can improve the efficiency and selectivity of the oxidative dehydrogenation process, maximizing desired product formation while minimizing overoxidation and byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00330"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts is multidimensional, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions. This complexity, where reactions occur in both surface-active sites and 3-D gas phase space, is crucial for understanding the reaction network. The effective coupling of surface and gas radical reactions enhances propene selectivity and activity. The mixed heterogeneous-homogeneous ODH mechanism, where boron oxide/hydroxide on the catalyst surface initiates alkyl radical formation, further reacting in the gas phase, is key to this synergy. Achieving this synergy is significant for designing more effective B-based catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_4"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, selectively cleaves the CH bond in alkanes with minimal CO2 formation, differing from the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism on vanadium-based catalysts. Understanding which species ensure high alkane conversion and olefin selectivity is key to optimizing catalytic systems. Further investigation into the synergies between surface and gas-phase reactions is warranted to fully comprehend this system, as indicated by recent discoveries with hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron-containing catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35776-3"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Gas-phase reactions, alongside surface-catalyzed pathways, significantly influence overall activity, as seen in VOx-modified BN catalysts where gas-phase radical chemistry boosts ODHP activity. The enhanced surface contribution by VOx sites leads to a 1.4-order dependence on propane partial pressure, indicating the limited role of gas-phase reactions in zeolite-based catalysts. This understanding suggests that constructing catalysts with highly exposed active boron centers and enhanced gas-phase reactions could optimize performance and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.11.031"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, integrating surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects, like the propyl radical stabilization by the nitroxyl radical site, contribute to high olefin selectivity. This 1D nature avoids highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation, guiding efficient and selective catalyst design for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, is pivotal for understanding catalytic performance. Direct evidence of gas-phase methyl radicals via SVUV-PIMS reveals new insights into the reaction mechanisms. Propene forms primarily from surface reactions, while C1 and C2 products arise from both surface and gas-phase pathways. Distinct product distributions in h-BN and metal oxide catalysts suggest differing mechanisms. These findings, akin to redox-poor oxides like MgO, are crucial for developing selective alkane ODH catalysts, highlighting synergistic effects for optimized design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202002440"},
{"DOC": "The ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, featuring surface and gas-phase radical reactions, enhances understanding of the reaction network. Synergistic effects of these reactions significantly impact catalyst performance and design optimization, suggesting optimizing both reactions could improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jacsau.1c00542"},
{"DOC": "The multidimensional ODHP reaction mechanism over B-based catalysts, involving surface and gas-phase radical reactions, significantly enhances our understanding of the reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their propagation in the gas phase explains the unique product distribution. This insight, achieved through catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions for catalyst performance. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring secondary CH bond abstraction in propane and minimize interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge guides the development of more selective catalysts and provides a mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202003695"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    