<quotes>

[1] "We investigate possible mechanisms of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using density functional theory. Monomeric vanadium oxide species supported on silica are modeled by vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane."
[2] "The catalytic activation of CH bonds is of fundamental interest, because it is the crucial step in important technological processes and also in many enzymatic reactions."
[3] "The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites."
[4] "The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol (or propene) formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites."
[5] "The mechanism suggested is compatible with turnover frequencies and activation energies available, while other suggestions (CH addition onto the metal oxo bond) are not supported by the calculations."
[6] "Comparison with recent DFT calculations for V2O5(001) crystal surfaces indicates that vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the ODH of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, play a crucial role in the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The catalytic activation of CH bonds is a fundamental step in important technological processes and enzymatic reactions. In the case of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, monomeric vanadium oxide species supported on silica are modeled by vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol or propene formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites. The suggested mechanism is compatible with turnover frequencies and activation energies available, while other suggestions, such as CH addition onto the metal oxo bond, are not supported by the calculations. Vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物，在烷烃转化的机制和效率中起着至关重要的作用，特别是在丙烷氧化脱氢等过程中。催化CH键的活化是重要技术过程和许多酶促反应中的关键步骤。在丙烷氧化脱氢的情况下，支撑在二氧化硅上的单体钒氧化物物种通过取代的硅氧烷来模拟。第一次氢原子的抽离仅在OVV位点上发生，而第二次氢原子的抽离也可以在VOSi桥接氧位点上发生。在OVV位点上再吸附后丙烯的形成速率远大于在HOVIV位点上再吸附后异丙醇或丙烯的形成速率。所提出的机制与可用的周转频率和活化能相吻合，而其他建议，如在金属氧键上添加CH，没有得到计算的支持。如果钒酸盐位点是体表面的一部分，而不是作为单体支撑在二氧化硅上，它们在丙烷氧化脱氢中可能具有显著更高的活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
