<quotes>

[1] "The catalytic activation of CH bonds is of fundamental interest, because it is the crucial step in important technological processes and also in many enzymatic reactions. Examples are the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of lower alkanes to alkenes by, for example, supported transiton metal oxide catalysts 1,2 and the oxygenation of CH bonds to COH groups by cytochrom P450. 3"
[2] "We examine possible reaction mechanisms for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by supported transition metal oxide catalysts. Specifically we are interested in V2O5 supported on SiO22,12,13 and consider monomeric OV(O)3 surface species, which together with dimeric and oligomeric V2O5 species are present on catalyst surfaces with low V2O5 loadings.13"
[3] "The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites."
[4] "The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol (or propene) formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites."
[5] "The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites."
[6] "The mechanism suggested is compatible with turnover frequencies and activation energies available, while other suggestions (CH addition onto the metal oxo bond)6,32 are not supported by the calculations."
[7] "Comparison with recent DFT calculations for V2O5(001) crystal surfaces9 indicates that vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the ODH of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica. However, apparent turnover frequencies may be lower for V2O5 crystallites on the surface because only a fraction of sites is accessible in three-dimensional particles."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The catalytic activation of CH bonds is crucial in important technological processes and enzymatic reactions, such as the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes to alkenes by supported transition metal oxide catalysts and the oxygenation of CH bonds to COH groups by cytochrom P450. The study focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by supported transition metal oxide catalysts, specifically V2O5 supported on SiO2, considering monomeric OV(O)3 surface species. The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol or propene formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites. The suggested mechanism is compatible with available turnover frequencies and activation energies, while other suggestions are not supported by the calculations. Vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the ODH of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica. However, apparent turnover frequencies may be lower for V2O5 crystallites on the surface because only a fraction of sites is accessible in three-dimensional particles.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化CH键的活化在重要的技术过程和酶促反应中至关重要，例如，由支持的过渡金属氧化物催化剂对较低烷烃的氧化脱氢以及由细胞色素P450对CH键的氧化到COH基团。研究集中于由支持的过渡金属氧化物催化剂对丙烷的氧化脱氢，特别是V2O5在SiO2上的支持，考虑了OV(O)3表面物种的单体。第一次氢原子的抽象仅发生在OVV位点上，而第二次氢原子的抽象也可以发生在VOSi桥接氧位点上。在OVV位点上读取后丙烯的形成速率远大于在HOVIV位点上读取后异丙醇或丙烯的形成速率。提出的机制与可获得的周转频率和活化能相容，而其他建议则不受计算的支持。如果钒酸盐位点是体表面的一部分，而不是作为单体在二氧化硅上支持，则它们在丙烷的ODH中可能显着更活跃。但是，由于在三维颗粒中仅有一部分位点可访问，因此V2O5晶体表面上的表面的表观周转频率可能较低。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
