<quotes>

[1] "We investigate possible mechanisms of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using density functional theory. Monomeric vanadium oxide species supported on silica are modeled by vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane."
[2] "The catalytic activation of CH bonds is of fundamental interest, because it is the crucial step in important technological processes and also in many enzymatic reactions."
[3] "We examine possible reaction mechanisms for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by supported transition metal oxide catalysts. Specifically we are interested in V2O5 supported on SiO22,12,13 and consider monomeric OV(O)3 surface species, which together with dimeric and oligomeric V2O5 species are present on catalyst surfaces with low V2O5 loadings."
[4] "The first hydrogen abstraction occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites."
[5] "The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol (or propene) formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites."
[6] "The mechanism suggested is compatible with turnover frequencies and activation energies available, while other suggestions (CH addition onto the metal oxo bond)6,32 are not supported by the calculations."
[7] "Comparison with recent DFT calculations for V2O5(001) crystal surfaces9 indicates that vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the ODH of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For instance, in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, monomeric vanadium oxide species supported on silica are modeled by vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. The catalytic activation of CH bonds is a crucial step in important technological processes and enzymatic reactions. The first hydrogen abstraction in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane occurs exclusively on OVV sites, while the second hydrogen abstraction can also occur on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. The rate of propene formation after readsorption on OVV sites is much larger than the rate of isopropyl alcohol or propene formation after readsorption on HOVIV sites. The suggested mechanism is compatible with available turnover frequencies and activation energies, while other suggestions are not supported by the calculations. Vanadia sites may be significantly more active in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane if they are part of the bulk surface and not supported as monomers on silica.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，如支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。例如，在丙烷的氧化脱氢中，支撑在二氧化硅上的单体钒氧化物物种被建模为取代的硅氧烷。催化CH键的活化是重要技术过程和酶促反应中的关键步骤。在丙烷的氧化脱氢中，第一次氢原子的抽象仅在OVV位点上发生，而第二次氢原子的抽象也可以在VOSi桥接氧位点上发生。在OVV位点上再吸附后，丙烯的形成速率远大于在HOVIV位点上再吸附后异丙醇或丙烯的形成速率。所提出的机制与可获得的周转频率和活化能相兼容，而其他建议则没有得到计算的支持。如果钒酸盐位点是体表面的一部分，而不是作为单体支撑在二氧化硅上，它们在丙烷的氧化脱氢中可能具有显著的活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
