<quotes>
"B-MWW Zeolite: The Case Against Single-Site Catalysis Graphical Abstract Solid-state NMR spectroscopy of hydrothermally synthesized B-MWW reveals that boron is fully incorporated into the zeolite framework as trivalent BO3 units."
"However, this material shows no catalytic activity for ODH of propane to propene."
"As was shown here and in our prior work, catalytically active B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride ODH catalysts contain aggregated boron sites that restructure under reaction conditions, whereas B-MWW is stable under reaction conditions and shows no restructuring of the boron atoms."
"The difference in boron sites in B-MWW and these other boron materials leads us to the important conclusion that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane does not proceed over an isolated BO3 site. Rather, active boron-based ODH catalysts likely requires boron species with some degree of B-O-B connectivity."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Analyzing the structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks, we find that boron is fully incorporated into the zeolite framework as trivalent BO3 units in B-MWW. However, despite being fully loaded with boron, B-MWW exhibits no catalytic activity for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to propene. In contrast, active boron-based ODH catalysts like B/B-MWW, B/SiO2, and boron nitride materials contain aggregated boron sites that undergo restructuring under reaction conditions. This suggests that the boron-catalyzed ODH of propane does not occur over isolated BO3 sites. Instead, active boron catalysts might require boron species with some degree of B-O-B connectivity for optimal performance.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在分析以孔结构框架中的三维分散活性位点的B基材料的结构特征时，我们发现，在B-MWW中，硼完全被整合到沸石框架中作为三价BO3单元。然而，尽管B-MWW被充分负载了硼，但它对丙烷氧化脱氢（ODH）转化为丙烯没有任何催化活性。相比之下，活性B基ODH催化剂如B/B-MWW、B/SiO2和硼氮化物材料含有在反应条件下重新排列的聚合硼位点。这表明，硼催化下的丙烷ODH不会在孤立的BO3位点上发生。相反，活性硼催化剂可能需要具有某些程度的B-O-B连接性的硼物种以实现最佳性能。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
