element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy
Volume 36, Issue 4
, February 2011, Pages 2950-2959
CO2 reforming of methane over Pt–Ni/Al2O3 catalysts: Effects of catalyst composition, and water and oxygen addition to the feed
Author links open overlay panel
Şeyma Özkara-Aydınoğlu 1
,
A. Erhan Aksoylu
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2010.11.080
Get rights and content
Abstract
A series of Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts supported on δ-Al2O3 to be used in carbon dioxide reforming of methane was prepared and tested with the objective of optimizing the Ni/Pt metal composition to obtain high activity and stability. Selected catalyst samples, before and after reaction, were characterized by XRD, XPS, TGA/DTA and SEM-EDS. The activity results showed that the catalytic performance of bimetallic Pt–Ni samples strongly depended on the metal loadings and Ni/Pt loading ratio. Among all the catalysts, 0.3%Pt–10%Ni/Al2O3, which has the lowest Ni/Pt ratio, exhibited the highest catalytic activity and stability. The combined characterization and catalyst performance tests results reveal that low Ni/Pt molar loading ratio of 0.3%Pt–10%Ni/Al2O3 sample led to a relatively easy reduction of nickel oxide species and smaller nano-sized nickel particles having better dispersion caused by the intimate interaction between Pt and Ni sites in the closed vicinity. The changes in the catalysts’ activity and stability under the presence of an additional oxygen source were determined through addition of small amounts of either oxygen or water vapor to the feed stream. The results of the combined dry reforming and partial oxidation tests strongly indicated a change in surface reaction mechanism depending on the Pt load and Ni/Pt ratio of the catalysts. 0.3Pt–10Ni was capable of operating under a variety of feed conditions without significant deactivation suggesting that the catalyst is very promising for synthesis gas production for gas-to-liquid technology.
Research highlights
►0.3%Pt–10%Ni/Al2O3 catalyst exhibited the highest activity & stability. ►Low Ni/Pt ratio led to easy reduction of NiO species & small nano-sized Ni particles. ►Better dispersion is led by the intimate interaction between Pt and Ni sites. ►0.3Pt–10Ni sample is capable of operating under a variety of feed conditions.
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
Dry reforming of methaneCombined CH4 reformingPt–Ni catalystsSynthesis gasCoke deposition
Loading...
Cited by (0)
1
Present address: Tübitak Marmara Research Center, Energy Institute, 41470 Gebze Kocaeli, Turkey.
View Abstract
Copyright © 2010 Professor T. Nejat Veziroglu. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.