Recent advances in catalysts for direct methanolfuel cells
Over the past few decades, direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs) have been intensively developed as clean and high-efficiency energy conversion devices. However, their dependence on expensive Pt-based catalysts for both the anode and the cathode make them unsuitable for large-scale commercialisation. The essential solution to addressing this shortfall is the development of low-Pt and non-Pt catalysts. Regarding this issue, considerable advances have been made with low-Pt alloys and core-shell-like catalysts, as well as non-platinum Pd–Me, Ru–Se and heat-treated MeNxCy-based catalysts. This perspective reviews potential pathways for increasing the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of these catalysts. Fundamental understanding of the composition–activity and structure–activity relationships, innovative synthesis, and promising developmental directions are highlighted. Regarding durability, the main degradation mechanism of these catalysts and the corresponding mitigating strategies are presented.
Xiao Zhao
Xiao Zhao received his BS from Xiangtan University in 2007. He is currently completing his Ph.D. under the supervision of Prof. Wei Xing at the Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry (CIAC), Chinese Academy of Sciences, China. His research interests focus on the development of low-Pt and non-precious metal catalysts for fuel cell applications.
Min Yin
Min Yin received her BS from Nanjing Normal University, China, in 2008. She is currently a Ph.D. candidate at CIAC. Her research interests include the mechanism of electrocatalytic processes and the design of novel electrocatalysts towards electrooxidation of small organic molecules.
Liang Ma
Liang Ma received his Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from CIAC in 2010. His dissertation work involved membrane electrode assembly (MEA) of the air-breathing direct methanol fuel cells and related electrocatalysis. His interests currently focused on electrocatalytic mechanisms in nano-scale and non-precious metal catalysts for fuel cell applications.
Liang Liang
Liang Liang obtained his ME in Material Physics and Chemistry from the Ocean University of China in 2008. He then joined Prof. Xing’s group as a research scientist. His studies involved the large-scale synthesis of catalysts, design and assemble of MEA and stacks.
Changpeng Liu
Chang-Peng Liu received his Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry in 2002 and was appointed an associate professor at CIAC in 2006. He has been in charge of and taken part in several relevant fuel cells projects (e.g. 863 programs and 973 programs China). Liu's research focuses on the technology and performance of catalysts, electrodes/MEA and stacks.
Wei Xing
Prof. Wei Xing is currently director of the Clean Energy Laboratory in CIAC. After receiving his Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry, at CIAC in 1995, he worked at the Hong Kong Productivity Council (HKPC), researching the electrochemical treatment of metal surfaces. In 2001, he joined the CIAC as a professor and devoted his work to the development of advanced chemical power sources. He has published over 100 papers in peer-reviewed journals and applied over 30 patents. His research areas currently involve proton exchange membrane fuel cell from fundamental electro-catalytic processes to relevant fuel cell assembly and testing.
Broader context
Over the past few decades, fuel cells have been considered a promising energy conversion technology with the advantages of high efficiency and environmental friendliness. Here, direct methanolfuel cells (DMFCs) represent the most promising technology on the road to commercialisation in the short term. However, several challenges, including cost and durability, still hinder their large-scale commercialisation. One of the major factors in both challenges is the dependence on Pt-based catalysts at both the anode and cathode. Recently, considerable efforts have been attempted to address this issue through the development of low-Pt and non-Pt catalysts, such as low-Pt alloys, core-shell-like catalysts, and non-platinum Pd–Me, Ru–Se, and heat-treated MeNxCy-based catalysts. Based on concerns of activity–durability and performance-cost issues, this perspective focuses on the fundamental understanding of composition–activity and structure–activity relationships, innovative synthesis, and promising development directions in more cost-effective and durable catalysts for DMFCs.
1. Introduction
Over the past few decades, DMFCs have been extensively studied as promising energy conversion devices.1–6 Compared to hydrogen proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), DMFCs with renewable liquid methanol as fuel have a unique advantage because methanol is safe for storage and transportation.6 Furthermore, DMFCs possess fast anodic reaction rates because methanol oxidation does not break the C–C bond and methanol has a high energy density (6100 Wh kg−1). Indeed, on the road to commercialisation, the small-scale, portable Toshiba Dynario-cell is available on the market. In addition, Smart Fuel Cells Co. has commercially produced DMFCs from the completely portable 15 W system to the semi-portable 250 W system.7
The current technology of catalysts is insufficient to support large-scale production of cost-effective and highly efficient DMFCs. The fundamental challenges are mainly to address the sluggish kinetic rates of both the methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Although considerable efforts have been made to overcome this predicament, the link between fundamental interest and practical application should not be ignored. Additionally, the electrocatalytic activity and durability of catalysts are both indispensable for the practical application of DMFCs. Therefore, it is expected that solutions to the improved kinetic rate will be balanced between the activity and durability of the catalysts. For instance, it was fundamentally demonstrated that a subnanometre Pt cluster with 12 Pt atoms obtained a 13-fold enhancement of the electrocatalytic activity as compared to the common Pt/C catalyst. However, those clusters need to be carefully investigated in terms of durability before practical application.8 Moreover, Pt alloying with base metals is widely used to enhance the electrocatalytic performance, but contamination of the base metal should be carefully dealt with before practical applications.
For the requirements of electrocatalytic activity and durability, core-shell-like catalysts seem to be most promising for practical application. On the other hand, the electrocatalytic performance and the cost are generally interrelated; thus, while high catalyst loading may guarantee energy density output, the cost will be prohibitive to widespread application.
Based on the concerns of the activity–durability balance and the performance–cost balance, critical advances are summarised, and promising future directions are presented. Herein the latest advances in the fundamental understanding of the composition–activity and structure–activity relationships, innovative synthesis, and promising developments in catalysts for DMFCs are highlighted. With regard to durability, the main degradation mechanism of these catalysts and the corresponding mitigation strategy are presented. These combined efforts are believed to facilitate broad-scale application of cost-effective and high-efficiency DMFCs.
2. Anode catalysts
Until now, Pt has been the most effective metal for MOR. However, pure platinum is not efficient due to poisoning of COads intermediates. According to the dual pathway mechanism proposed by Breiter and co-workers,9–11 the intermediate COads generated in the indirect pathway can be strongly adsorbed on the Pt surface, and the reaction active sites on the Pt become occupied, leading to a severe decrease in reaction kinetics. To address the poisoning by COads, modification of Pt with foreign metals (Me) (e.g., Ru, Ni, Co, and Sn) is necessary.
In general, the bifunctional mechanism and ligand effect (electronic effect) were proposed to account for the enhancement of the electrocatalytic activity of Pt–Me catalysts for MOR. In terms of a bifunctional mechanism,12 the process of MOR needs two kinds of active sites. One active site on the Pt surface is for methanol adsorption and dissociation, and another active site on the surface of the foreign metal is for water adsorption and activation. Usually, the foreign metals can activate water dissociation at lower potentials, thereby promoting oxidation of COads on Pt sites. Regarding the ligand effect,13 the foreign metals can alter the electronic properties of Pt and lower the adsorption energy of COads, facilitating the oxidation of COads at a lower potentials.
2.1 CO oxidation and MOR
As indicated in the ‘dual pathway’, the oxidative removal of COads on the Pt surface plays a key role in determining the MOR activity. Understanding how different variables affect CO oxidation on Pt electrodes is therefore of fundamental and practical interest in designing new and better MOR catalysts. Meanwhile, the CO oxidation as a structure-sensitive reaction is of great importance to probe the microscopic surface structure for catalysts.14–20 The CO oxidation is frequently proposed to follow a Langmuir–Hinshelwood mechanism, where COads reacts with adsorbed oxygenated species (OHads). Rationally, the binding energy of COads and the availability of OHads on the catalytic surface jointly govern the CO oxidation kinetics. Lebedeva proposed that the most reactive combination involved CO from the terrace and an oxygen-containing species in the step trough.21 As for CO oxidation being a structure-sensitive reaction, considerable variables such as crystal face, solution PH, anion adsorption, defects including steps and kinks, pre-history of the electrode, and the size and shape of nanoparticles have all shown important influence on the kinetics of CO oxidation.14,15,19,22–25
2.1.1 Size-dependent CO oxidation and MOR With regard to Pt nanocatalysts, significant size effects for CO oxidation have been observed (i.e., a positive shift in the CO stripping peak and a decrease in MOR oxidation rate on smaller Pt particle).14,22,26,27 For the size-dependent behaviour of CO oxidation, Savinova et al.22 emphasised restricted COads mobility on particles below approximately 2 nm as a result of stronger binding energy for CO on Pt sites. In contrast, Arenz et al. suggested that CO adlayer oxidation was predominantly influenced by the defect sites through their ability to dissociate water and form OHads rather than by CO energetics.14 The significant role of defect sites on Pt is supported in these works.24,25,28 For example, Lee et al.24 showed that increasing the surface steps for Pt nanoparticles of approximately 2 nm can lead to enhanced intrinsic activity for CO and methanol electro-oxidation. Lebedeva et al.28 implied fast diffusion of adsorbed CO on the Pt[n(111) × (111)] surfaces under electrochemical conditions and that the steps on these surfaces were the active sites for CO adlayer oxidation. Indeed, increasing the oxygenated groups29 and adding groups containing OHads through oxides,30–32 such as CeO2, has been reported to improve COads and methanol oxidation for Pt/C catalysts. Although the significant role of defects has been noted for Pt in CO oxidation, the influence of surface diffusion rate/CO binding energy on CO oxidation kinetics cannot be ignored for those surface structures with low CO diffusion rates, such as CO oxidation on rhodium in sulfuric acid.33 Therefore, designing a new CO and methanol oxidation catalyst needs to consider the requirements of a weakly bonded state of COads on the Pt surface and sufficient supply of reactive hydroxyl adsorbed species at low potentials by introducing a more oxophilic atom and/or controlling the particle shape.15 For the size-dependent MOR, this was attributed to a combination of increased strength of adsorption of both COads and OHads on Pt particles lower than 5 nm,34 or a “ensemble effect” where dehydrogenation was impeded by the sharply decreasing availability of contiguous Pt terrace sites for Pt particle lower than 4 nm.27 2.1.2 Shape-dependent CO oxidation and MOR On the other hand, an interesting topic is to explore CO oxidation and MOR on preferentially oriented Pt nanoparticles (i.e., shape-dependent/facet-dependent electrocatalysis).19,23,35–37 For example, Solla-Gullon et al.19 found a clear dependence of CO oxidation activity on shapes of platinum nanoparticles (semi-spherical, cubic and tetrahedral-hexagonal nanoparticles). Further, Feliu et al.23 bridged the gap between fundamental understanding of single-crystal surfaces and electrocatalytic behaviours on the polyoriented, preferential (100), (111) and (100)-(111) Pt nanoparticles. The MOR on Pt basal planes showed an increase in maximum activity in the order Pt(111) < Pt(110) < Pt(100). However, the current density values at 0.5 V in the practically operating potential range in the positive sweep showed the order of Pt(111) > Pt(100) > Pt(110) for electrodes. In agreement with fundamental studies on single crystal electrodes, Pt nanoparticles with preferential (111) orientation were proven to be the most active towards MOR in the low potential range because of their low poisoning rate. Furthermore, this study indicated that the Pt-based catalyst performance could be effectively improved by controlling the shape of the particles. As a result, combining shape-dependent catalytic activity and the alloy effect was well demonstrated.
In a separate work, Lee et al.38 reported that octahedral Pt–Pd nanoparticles with dominantly exposed (111) facets showed improved catalytic activity and stability as compared to commercial Pt/C(E-TEK) in MOR.38 In addition, Zhang et al. found that monodispersed Pt3Fe nanocubes and nanospheres had almost identical shapes, and only a slightly higher peak current density was observed for the nanocubes. In contrast, Yin showed that (100)-facet-enclosed Pt–Pd nanocubes possessed a higher activity, whereas the (111)-facet-enclosed Pt–Pd tetrahedrons exhibited a better durability for MOR.35 These findings open the possibility of designing new and better electrocatalytic materials using foreign metal decorated, shape-controlled Pt nanoparticles.
2.2. Pt–Ru catalysts
2.2.1. Fundamentals of the promotion effect of Ru Among the multifarious Pt-based catalysts, the Pt–Ru alloy has been identified to be the most effective for MOR. Many authors have shown that Ru could produce active OHads at a low potential to react with adsorbed intermediates on neighbouring Pt sites.12,39,40 For instance, Herrero et al.39 observed a voltammetric peak assigned to the OHads on Ru sites. These active OHads species were identified to be the source of enhanced bifunctional reactivity of a Pt(110)/Ru surface. On the other hand, Baltruschat et al.12 demonstrated variations in the electronic structure of Pt on the Pt/Ru surface. This electronic effect could enhance methanol dehydrogenation on Pt sites and weaken the adsorption strength of COads. Recently, by an accelerated degradation test and normal pulse voltammetry, Manthiram showed kinetic evidence favouring the electronic effect of Ru in the promotion of initial dissociative adsorption of methanol on Pt.42 For these debates, the literature43,44 has proposed that the bifunctional mechanism and the electronic effect of Ru are usually combined for a 20% enhancement in MOR attributed to the electronic effect and a 80% enhancement due to the bifunctional mechanism.43,44
In terms of the bifunctional mechanism in Pt–Ru catalysts, another concern is the state of Ru. Some studies have emphasised the role of the metallic state of Ru in the bifunctional mechanism.15,45,46 For example, Gottesfeld's group15 claimed that the surface alloying of Pt and metallic Ru is responsible for the enhanced activity for MOR by in situ probing of the Pt–Ru catalyst surface. They stated that the neighbouring metallic Ru sites were required to be located close enough to the Pt sites to guarantee the reaction. Moreover, Lee et al.46 directly demonstrated that CO oxidation and methanol oxidation were enhanced as the PtRu alloying degree became higher. In contrast, it has been suggested that hydrous ruthenium oxide (RuOxHy) plays a more important role than metallic Ru in the bifunctional mechanism. Rolison et al.47 stated that RuOxHy with a Ru–OH structure existed in a commercial Pt–Ru black catalyst and is the mixed proton and electron conductor. Furthermore, Luet al.48 found that, after anodic treatment at 1.3 V (vs. RHE) for Pt–Ru/C catalysts, a reduced degree of alloying occurred. However, enhanced electrocatalytic activity for Pt–Ru/C catalysts in MOR was obtained in this study. Our studies40 also showed that RuOxHy is more active than metallic Ru on Pt–Ru catalysts through comparative studies of different Pt–Ru catalysts.
The beneficial effect of RuOxHy in Pt–Ru catalyst for MOR was further confirmed experimentally,49,50 which precluded the existence of metallic Ru in Pt–Ru catalysts. For example, Cao et al.49 designed a composite catalyst of carbon nanotube-supported hydrous ruthenium oxide and Pt. The obtained catalyst possessed superb performance in MOR. Recently, Ma and co-workers50 carefully prepared a series of multi-walled carbon nanotube-supported Pt-(RuOxHy)mcatalysts without any metallic Ru or anhydrous RuO2. Their data demonstrated that RuOxHy alone could act as a very efficient promoter of Pt for the oxidation of CO and MOR. Meanwhile, it was also pointed out that the promotion of RuOxHy in MOR depended on the proximity and relative amount of RuOxHy and Pt.
2.2.2. Ru-decorated Pt and Pt-decorated Ru Recently, considerable efforts have been dedicated to structure optimisation to increase the electrocatalytic activity of Pt–Ru for MOR.51–54 For example, it was reported that the electrocatalytic activity of a Pt–Ru catalyst with a Ru-decorated Pt surface in MOR was twice higher for optimised Ru coverage as compared to Johnson Matthey Pt–Ru black (Pt:Ru = 1 : 1) alloy catalysts.51
Tsang et al.41 investigated the dependence of the electrocatalytic activity of Pt–Ru catalysts on Ru coverage. Three types of reaction pathways were proposed for Pt-core-Ru-shell nanocatalysts (Fig. 1). The authors suggested that when the Ru coverage on Pt was high, the reversed spillover mechanism (direct non-CO pathway through formate on Ru) would occur at low potential. Contrary to the Ru-decorated Pt, the structure of Pt-decorated Ru is more attractive for improving mass activity due to the low Pt content in the catalysts. For example, Hwang et al.55 reported that Pt-decorated Ru catalysts had higher mass activity for MOR than commercial Pt–Ru catalysts. The enhancement of the electrocatalytic activity was ascribed to the high degree of electron transfer and the long-range ordered hexagonally close-packed structure. Both factors impart critical reaction sites to Pt-decorated Ru catalysts for MOR. It was reported56 that the Pt-decorated Ru catalysts could facilitate CO spillover from Pt to Ru, improving the CO tolerance of the catalysts. Peleda showed that a Ru core–Pt shell catalyst performed much better (up to 36%) at high temperatures than a JM Pt–Ru alloy catalyst, but displayed only a moderate improvement in the chronoamperometry test.53 In the work of Arico et al.,57 when the Pt-decorated Ru catalyst acts as an anode catalyst with ultra-low Pt loading anodes (0.1 mg cm−2), a cell power density of 150 mWcm−2 at 130 °C was achieved. These results clearly demonstrate that catalysts containing small amounts of Pt on the surface of a less expensive metal may represent a useful approach to reduce cost.
Fig. 1 (A) The first direct non-CO pathway through formate on Pt; (B) second direct non-CO pathway through formate on Ru through reverse spillover and (C) indirect CO pathway to CO2 on Pt.41 Reprinted with permission from ref. 41. Copyright 2010, Wiley-VCH.
2.3. Pt–Me catalytic systems
Until now, Ru has been the most effective metal for improving the CO tolerance of Pt catalysts. However, as Ru is a precious metal with relatively high cost and low production, the development of Pt–Me (Me = Ni, Co Mo, Snetc.) catalytic systems is beneficial to obtaining low-cost alternative catalysts for MOR.
2.3.1. Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts Page et al. investigated Pt–Ni, Pt–Co, Pt–Fe and Pt–Cu catalysts for MOR.58 They found that Pt–Co/C catalysts were better catalysts for MOR than Pt and other transition metal alloy catalysts. In addition, the CO tolerance of Pt–Co catalysts was recently investigated by Uchida et al.59 Their results showed that the CO adsorption rate for the Pt–Co alloys was much slower than that for pure Pt, which might be attributed to the electronic effect of Co on Pt. Furthermore, in the work of Rojas et al.,60 the effect of Co was further studied by means of differential electrochemical mass spectrometry. It was observed that the efficiency of CO2 formation at the Pt–Co alloy catalysts, especially at lower potentials (0.50 and 0.55 V, the region of MOR), was clearly superior. This fact was related to the decrease in the CO adsorption energy due to the shift of the d-band centre.
Likewise, (100)-facet-terminated Pt3Co nanocubes showed enhanced rates of MOR compared to Pt one. This observation was correlated with a decrease of the platinum d-band centre from alloying with cobalt, which leads to weaker and slower CO adsorption.61 Similar slow CO adsorption was also detected with Pt–Ni alloy catalysts.62 Density functional theory studies revealed that the electronic structure of Pt could be modified by Ni due to the charge transfer from Ni to Pt in PtmNinclusters, leading to a weakened CO adsorption on PtmNin binary clusters.62 This was supported by the recent work of Kim and co-workers, who showed that a Ni–Pt alloy had a lower-energy shift in the binding energy of Pt 4f electrons, as demonstrated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).63
The bifunctional mechanism is also widely proposed to be an important factor for designing high-performance Pt–Me catalysts for MOR. For example, in the work of Zhou et al.64 the bifunctional mechanism was highlighted in the case of multisegment PtNi nanorods (e.g., Ni–Pt, Ni–Pt–Ni, Ni–Pt–Ni–Pt and Ni–Pt–Ni–Pt–Ni). A linear relationship was found between the peak current densities and the number of Pt–Ni interfaces in cyclic voltammetry. Moreover, the decay rate of the current slowed with increasing numbers of Pt–Ni interfaces. These results provided a direct demonstration of the role of pair sites in the bifunctional mechanism.64 For Pt–Co catalysts, a low Co content (Pt : Co > 1 : 1) outperformed those with a high Co content (Pt : Co < 1 : 1).65 Here, the electronic modification of Co on Pt lowers the binding energy of Pt and favours C–H cleavage at low potential. Meanwhile, the presence of Co oxides provides an oxygen source for CO oxidation at lower potentials based on the bifunctional mechanism. Both factors determine the optimum Pt : Co ratio to be about 1 : 0.5 for the best electrocatalytic activity.
2.3.2. Pt–Mo and Pt–Sn catalysts Pt–Mo and Pt–Sn catalysts, with high CO tolerance, have long attracted significant attention. In the study of Koper et al.,66 the binding energies and geometries of CO and OH were computed for Pt–Ru, Pt–Mo and Pt–Sn catalysts. According to their calculations, the Pt–Mo and Pt–Sn catalysts seemed to be better CO oxidation catalysts than Pt–Ru catalysts. Experimentally, Eichhorn et al.66 found that both a Pt0.8Mo0.2 alloy and MoOx@Pt core-shell catalysts showed negligible overpotential for oxidation of a H2/CO mixture. Furthermore, Dupont et al.67 examined the efficiency of Pt–Sn alloy surfaces towards CO oxidation from first-principles theory. The results showed that the activation barriers were actually lower on the Pt3Sn(111) surface than the Pt(111), and the corresponding rate of Pt3Sn outstripped the activity of Pt by several orders of magnitude.
Inspired by the high CO tolerance of Pt–Mo and Pt–Sn, their electrocatalytic performances for MOR have been investigated. For example, Gotz and Wendt found that the performance of DMFCs was improved by modifying the E-TEK Pt/C catalyst with Mo.68 In the study of Zhou, Pt/CNT modified with HxMoO3 exhibited higher electrocatalytic activity towards MOR and better CO tolerance than the corresponding Pt/CNT.69 Generally, the enhanced activity for MOR was attributed to the existence of a Mo(vi)/Mo(iv) couple in substoichiometric lower valence MoOx (2 < x < 3) and a proton spillover effect from hydrogen molybdenum bronze.69–71
However, Mukerjee et al.72 investigated the CO tolerance and MOR of a Pt–Mo/C catalyst in a PEM fuel cell environment. The results showed that a 3-fold enhancement was observed for CO tolerance as compared with PtRu/C (1 : 1), but there was no enhancement for MOR. Moreover, to explore the role of the MoOx, the PtMoOx/C catalysts for MOR with different compositions were investigated by our group.73 The PtMoOx/C catalysts were found to have lower specific activity for MOR than a Pt/C catalyst. Consequently, it was suggested that a “real” experimental situation for the Pt–Mo catalyst was more complicated than that of the proposed promotional mechanism.
With respect to Sn, Mukerjee et al.74 stated that the electronic effect of Sn on Pt caused partial filling of the Pt d band vacancies and an increase in the Pt–Pt bond distance from 2.77 to 2.8 Å, which weakened the adsorption energy of CO but simultaneously inhibited the ability of Pt to adsorb methanol and dissociate C–H bonds. According to the study of Kim,75 an optimal content of Sn (approximately 25 wt%) was required to balance the electronic and bifunctional effects. This optimum Sn content provided the pertinent dilation of the lattice parameter assisting the cleavage of C–H bonds, and supplied sufficient surface oxygen-containing species. At low Sn content, however, there might not be sufficient Sn sites to provide surface oxygen derivatives capable of assisting the oxidation of adsorbed reaction intermediates.
3. Cathode catalysts
With the cathode, the fundamental challenges are how to address the sluggish ORR kinetics and the methanol crossover. The sluggish ORR kinetics require high loading of Pt in the cathode for acceptable power density. Correspondingly, methanol crossover not only decreases fuel efficiency but also causes mixed potentials due to the occurrence of MOR on Pt. Therefore, the development of low-platinum/non-platinum and methanol-tolerant cathode catalysts is highly desired for implementation in DMFCs.
From a survey of the literature, recent endeavours for cost-effective and high-efficiency cathode catalysts are reviewed with respect to (a) dispersion and size optimisation of Pt particles, (b) composition and structure optimisation, including Pt-based alloys, core-shell-like and other architecture catalysts, and (c) non-platinum catalysts, including Pd-based, Ru–Se, and MeNxCycatalysts. Here, the composition- and structure–activity relationship, innovative synthesis, and promising developments in high efficiency cathode catalysts are highlighted. Concerns are also emphasised in terms of the activity-durability balance and the performance-cost balance.
3.1. Dispersion and size effects of Pt particles
Generally, the smaller the Pt particles are, the larger surface area the Pt particles possess, leading to good electrocatalytic performance of Pt catalysts. However, it is interesting to know whether a critical size with respect to the largest mass activity exists. As such, there are considerable reports8,76–80 on the issue of the critical particle size of Pt and the effect of particle size on ORR. For example, Kinoshita et al.76 stated that specific activity decreased with a decrease in the Pt particle size or an increase in the specific surface area. The mass activity for ORR achieved a maximum when the particle size of Pt reached approximately 3 nm and the specific surface area of Pt particles was close to 90 m2g−1. The Pt particle size was proposed to induce a change in the adsorption of OHads, as the inhibitive species for ORR, which rationalises the observed particle size effect in non-adsorbing electrolytes.77,81,82 Gasteiger et al.77 asserted that the development of more active Pt alloys or as yet unknown non-Pt catalysts was the only viable path to reach the required apparent mass activity of 0.45 A mg−1Pt targeted by the Department of Energy of America (DOE).77 On the contrary, Watanabe et al.79,83,84 stated that there was a constant specific activity of Pt for ORR when the intercrystallite distance was greater than 20 nm. The particle size effect76–78 is thus not due to Pt particle dimensions but to intercrystallite distance. When Pt particles are close together, the “territories” (radial diffusion fields) of the catalyst particles for O2 overlap, and part of the active site is lost, resulting in decreased specific activity for ORR.80,84
Interestingly, the recent work conducted by Yamamoto et al.8 demonstrated that subnanometre scale Pt clusters also possessed high turnover kinetic properties for ORR. In their study, the spherical macromolecular template, a phenylazomethine dendrimer, offered control of the number of metal complexes to obtain subnanometre scale Pt cluster in the discrete nano-cages. The highest electrocatalytic performance was obtained for the smallest cluster, composed of 12 Pt atoms, with a catalytic current approximately 13 times greater than that of commercial Pt/C.8
The controversy for the particle size effect of Pt can be ascribed to the difference in selected synthesis methods and materials. From our understanding, considering the balance between the electrocatalytic activity and durability of the catalysts, there should be a critical Pt particle size for practical application. As indicated by Holby et al.,85 a critical enhancement in the electrocatalytic durability was demonstrated due to rapidly changing Gibbs-Thomson energies in the region from 2–3 nm to 4–5 nm particle sizes.
3.2. Platinum alloys and the promotional mechanism
Pt alloys have been studied for many years as an effective tactic to improve the electrocatalytic activity of Pt and simultaneously reduce Pt loading. For example, the most active ORR catalyst reported in the literature is the Pt3Ni(111)-skin surface.86 In general, Pt alloying with other metals causes a series of changes in the geometric and electronic structure of Pt. Correspondingly, a number of volcano-type relationships, and even a double-volcano plot,87 could be observed between ORR activity and structure factors.87–89
In terms of geometric structure, Pt–Pt interatomic spacing was emphasised in the work of Taylor.89 Given the rupture of the O–O bond through a dual site mechanism, an optimum spacing of Pt–Pt is believed to lead to the highest electrocatalytic activity of Pt alloys in ORR. It is known that in acidic and/or electrochemical treatment, selective dissolution/leaching of more active non-Pt elements occurred for Pt–Me alloy precursors. This phenomenon can be referred to as surface roughening or as a dealloying process. In some early works on the topic,90,91 surface roughening was a beneficial alteration proposed to increase the surface area of Pt, thus leading to the increase in mass activity observed for Pt–Me alloy catalysts. Furthermore, the recent work of Strasser88,92–95 demonstrated the compressive strain caused by the dealloying process resulted in improved specific activity of Pt-rich shells for ORR compared to Pt particles. The compressive strain gives rise to a downshift of the metal d-band centre and hence a weakened chemisorption of oxygenated species. This was supported in the most recent studies on preleached Pd–Pt–Ni electrocatalysts.97
Catalysts with an ordered structure generally display enhanced electrocatalytic activity compared to catalysts with a random solid solution structure.98–101 An ordered structure is usually generated after the alloy precursors are treated at a high temperature. Watanabe100 found that an ordered Co–Pt alloy exhibited a specific electrocatalytic activity 1.35 times higher than the disordered alloy. Furthermore, Xiong et al.101 stated that the electrocatalytic activity of a catalyst for ORR increased with the ordering extent.
For the electronic structure, the increased d-electron vacancies of the thin Pt surface layer was highlighted in the work of Watanabe et al.93 Their study revealed that a d-electron vacancy-activity relationship existed in Pt–Me alloys (Me = Ni, Co, Fe). The increased d-electron vacancies lead to an increased 2π electron donation from O2 to the surface Pt. Consequently, the O2 adsorption is increased, and the O–O bond is weakened. In contrast, Stamenkovic et al.88 presented a ‘volcano-type’ relationship of d-band centre and activity for Pt3Me (M = Ni, Co, Fe, Ti, V) catalysts. The maximum electrocatalytic activity was governed by the balance between the adsorption energies of the reactive intermediates and the surface coverage by the blocking species.
Recently, the effect of the oxygen binding energy on the ORR activity of the catalysts was well documented in the works of Norskov et al.96,102–105 (Fig. 2). When the oxygen binding energy of the catalysts was too strong, the ORR activity was limited by the rate of removing surface oxides and anions. When the oxygen binding energy of the catalysts was too weak, the ORR activity was limited by the rate of electron and proton transfer to adsorbed O2.88,106 Therefore, for an optimised catalytic surface for ORR, approximately 0.2 eV weaker oxygen binding energy than that of Pt is expected.104 Furthermore, with oxygen binding energy as an ORR descriptor, density functional calculations were usable for searching potential catalysts for ORR.103,104,107 For instance, Pd or Pt alloyed with early transition metals, such as Sc or Y, were predicted and subsequently shown to be highly efficient ORR catalysts.104 In the extensive screening of nearly 750 binary transition metal surface alloys,103 a large number of alloys were predicted to have high electrocatalytic activity for ORR. However, after interrogation for durability, very few alloy catalysts were expected to be thermodynamically stable at high electrode potentials.103 In contrast, it was indicated that Pt “skin” layers could be stabilised compared to pure Pt.107 From a full consideration of activity and stability, Liu et al.108 beautifully utilised the surface corrosion energy and the free energy barrier to OOH dissociation as main descriptors for stability and activity to screen a large set of Pt alloys as ORR catalysts and suggest a Pt2Mo skin alloy as a good candidate. Interestingly, a recent study109 on Au/Pt catalysts suggested that H2O2 spillover may facilitate ORR. Specifically, even though a decrease of one-third in surface area of the Pt occurred due to the coverage of the Au cluster, an equivalent activity was still obtained for the Au/Pt catalyst. This observation was ascribed to efficient spillover of H2O2 from Au clusters to the surrounding Pt atoms. The H2O2 was then further reduced to H2O on the Pt surface. Alternatively, if Au–OH is formed at certain potentials, it may also help the reduction of H2O2.109
Fig. 2 The relationship between electrocatalytic activity for ORR and oxygen binding energy.96 Reprinted with permission from ref. 96. Copyright 2004, the American Chemical Society.
It is noteworthy that the reported volcano-type relationships between ORR activity and structure factors should be interrelated. For example, the single bond radius of the metal is used to calculate the percent d-band character, an electronic characteristic.110 Additionally, the position of the d-band centre of the Pt monolayer depends both on the strain effects and the electronic effects.111,112 Furthermore, the d-band centre was demonstrated to correlate with the oxygen binding energy103 and the stability of both adsorbed OH and adsorbed O.96 Therefore, from the above assertions, the proposed promotional mechanisms should be essentially consistent and interrelated. On the other hand, the “volcano relationship” for ORR between the electrocatalytic activity and these structure factors (i.e., geometric and electronic structure) could be governed by the basic balance in the Sabatier Principle: while the reaction rate passes through a maximum for metals adsorbing reaction intermediates moderately, the reaction rate is very slow on metals that adsorb intermediates either strongly or weakly.113
3.3. Pt-based catalysts with core-shell-like structures
To maximise Pt utilisation, the ideal structure of a Pt-based catalyst is where the total available Pt atoms are distributed on the electrochemical reaction interface. Following this consideration, the core-shell structure should represent an effective structure model where a monolayer or a few layers of Pt are arranged on inexpensive core materials. More importantly, it is rationally expected that the physical and chemical properties of the Pt shell can be effectively tuned by the underlying core material. This imparts significant room for improvement of the electrocatalytic performance of the Pt shell. In the works of Stamenkovic and co-workers88,114 a fundamental insight into ORR activity of three pure Pt surface layers (i.e., Pt-skin, Pt-skeleton, and pure polycrystalline Pt) was revealed. The kinetic current of ORR was shown to increase in the order of pure polycrystalline Pt surface < Pt-skeleton < Pt-skin (Fig. 3). In line with the order of activity, the Pt-skin was found to possess the maximum positive-shift in reduction potential of oxide and the maximum down-shift in the d-band centre versus the Fermi level.
Fig. 3 Electrochemical properties of Pt3Fe surfaces: (a) cyclic voltammograms of the Pt skeleton (blue line) and Pt skin (red line) electrodes, as well as a pure polycrystalline Pt (black line) electrode in 0.1 M HClO4. (b) Polarisation curves for ORR on a disc electrode and the corresponding fraction of peroxide detected on a ring electrode. (c) Schematic models showing that Pt skin and Pt skeleton are stable surface formations in an electrochemical environment.88 Reprinted with permission from ref. 88. Copyright 2007, Nature Publishing Group.
According to d-band centre theory, the down-shifted d-band centre of Ptversus the Fermi level can lead to weaker oxygen binding energy, which is believed to be a key factor to improved Pt ORR activity.96 In the studies of Adzic,115–117 this was further validated. Through Cu UPD-mediated electro-deposition, a Pt monolayer was deposited on various substrates, thus controlling the ORR activity of the Pt monolayer. For example, when a platinum monolayer was deposited on Au(111), Ir(111), Pd(111), Rh(111), and Ru(0001) surfaces, the volcano-type relationship was observed between ORR activity and the d-band centre. In addition, the Pt monolayer on Pd (111) was found to be the most active surface due to the optimum d-band centre, which is beneficial to both the breakage of the O–O bond and the hydrogenation of reaction intermediates.117 In this regard, the recently reported Pd@Pt Core-Shell nanoparticles prepared by electroless deposition118 and a microwave method119 were demonstrated to possess enhanced ORR kinetics compared to Pt/C catalysts. Because the d-band centre is correlated with the surface strain effect and the ligand effect, they may simultaneously impact the observed electrocatalytic activity of a Pt monolayer120 or a Pt skin.88,114 In contrast, in the case of dealloyed Pt–Cu nanoparticles, Strasser et al.92,95,121,122 stated that the compressive strain effect rather than the ligand effect was responsible for the improved activity in ORR. According to their data,92 the Pt shell was estimated to be 0.6–1.0 nm, corresponding to three or more Pt-rich layers where the ligand effect was neglectable.92
For practical interests, these proposed core-shell catalysts have exhibited excellent mass activity for ORR, as illustrated in Table 1. For example, the mass activity for a Pt monolayer on 4.6 nm Pd3Co/C123 was as high as 1.56 A mgPt−1 (0.9 V vs.SHE), which was much higher than the target of 0.45 A mgPt−1. Meanwhile, large-scale, low-cost synthetic methods118,124,125 have also been developed for the wide application of such high-efficiency ORR catalysts. With the simultaneous interrogation of enhanced electrocatalytic activity and reduced cost, the effectiveness of such core-shell structure catalysts has been well documented. In the environment of working fuel cells, however, the long-term stability must be addressed for widespread use of such core-shell-like structure catalysts.
Table 1 Comparison of typical ORR catalysts with the core-shell-like structure and other architectures
Catalyst Synthetic method Specific activity (μA cm−2Pt at 0.9 V)a Mass activity (A mg−1Pt at 0.9 V)a Durabilityd Reference
Pt monolayer on 4.0 nm Pd/C Cu UPD mediated electrodeposition 500(—, 10 mV s−1) 0.96 — 123
Pt monolayer on 4.6 nm Pd3Co/C Cu UPD mediated electrodeposition 800(—, 10 mV s−1) 1.56 — 123
Pt monolayer on Porous Pd–Cu Alloys/C Cu UPD method for Pt deposition Electrochemical dealloying for porous Pd–Cu Alloys/C 1000–1200(RT, 10 mV s−1) 2.8 After 5000 cycles, a loss of ∼36% in mass activitye 126
Au/Pt/C Cu UPD method for Au deposition on Pt/C 564 at 0.85 V (RT, 10 mV s−1) 0.35 at 0.85 V After 30,000 cycles, no recordable loss in ECSA (0.6–1.1 V, 50 mV s−1, RT) 109
Dealloyed Pt25Co75/C Electrochemical dealloying 491b 0.346b — 127
Dealloyed Pt20Ni60Cu20/C Electrochemical dealloying 406b 0.473b — 127
Dealloyed Pt25Cu75/C voltammetric surface dealloying Pt25Cu75 precursor annealed at 800 °C for 7 h 756 ± 9 (RT, 5 mV s−1) 0.55 ± 0.006 After 4000 cycles, a loss of ∼12.5% in mass activity (0.6–1.0 V, 100 mV s−1, RT) 121
Pt-on-Pd bimetallic Hetero-nanostructures/C a sequential synthetic method 307 — After 30,000 cycles, a loss of ∼12% in initial ECSA (0.6–1.0 V, 50 mV s−1, RT) 128
Truncated Octahedral Pt3Ni/C Colloid method 850 (RT, 10 mV s−1) 0.53 —
Pd–Pt nanodendrites Pd nanocrystal seeds method with l-ascorbic acid as a reductant 420(RT, 10 mV s−1) 800(60 °C, 10 mV s−1) 0.241, 0.433 After 4000 cycles, a loss of 30% in ECSA (0.6–1.1 V, 50 mV s−1, RT) 129
46% Pt/C (TKK) — 210c 0.16c — 77
a The ORR activity was evaluated by thin-film rotating disk electrode technology in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4 aqueous solutions with rotation disk speed of 1600 rpm. The parentheses show the temperature and scan rate (RT representing room temperature). b The ORR activity was estimated at 80 °C, 100% RH, and 150 kPaabs with pure (99.99%) H2 and O2. c at 80 °C, an O2 partial pressure of 100 kPaabs in an operating fuel cell environment. d The accelerated stability tests were conducted by applying potential sweeps in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4 aqueous solutions, and the parentheses contain the scan potential range, scan rate and temperature. e Square-wave potential cycling protocol at 60 °C (i.e., the catalysts were cycled by holding the potential constant at 0.65 V and 1.0 V for 5 s each).
3.4. Pt-based catalysts with other architectures
Due to advances in the controllable synthesis of nanostructures, the various architectures of Pt-based catalysts have been well developed. These architectures include nanoporous metal–ionic liquid composites,130 one-dimensional nanotubes and nanowires,131–134 nanoflowers,135 nanodendrites,129,136 nanocubes,137–140 concave nanocubes with high-index facets,141 truncated octahedra142 and nanoctahedra.140 Among these proposed catalysts, improved specific activity was usually due to preferable exposure of more active crystal facets compared to polyfaceted Pt/C7,132,141,143 and favourable adsorption of O2 onto the stepped surfaces of high index facets.141 Consequently, the shape-dependent activity of ORR at the nanoscale is well demonstrated in the literature140,142,144 Using scanning electrochemical microscopy, Herrero et al.144 directly observed the structure-sensitive catalytic activity for ORR. Among four types of Pt nanoparticles (i.e., spherical, cubic, hexagonal, and tetrahedral-octahedral), the hexagonal Pt nanoparticles displayed the highest activity for ORR, which was well correlated with preferentially active (100) and (111) facets at the catalytic surface. Furthermore, Fang and co-workers showed that ORR activity for Pt3Ni nano-octahedras terminated with (111) facets was 5-fold higher than that of nano-cubes with (100) facets. This result was consistent with the Pt single crystal study, where Pt (111) was much more active for ORR than Pt (100) in non-adsorbing electrolyte.
Combining the promoting effect of alloys, recent works have shown considerable advances in bimetallic Pt-based architectures. For example, the mass activity for Pd–Pt nanodendrites was demonstrated to have a 2.5-fold improvement compared to standard Pt/C catalysts in ORR.129 In the study on Pt–Pd nanotubes,88 Yan demonstrated that the mass activity of Pt–Pd nanotubes was 1.4 times higher than that of Pt/C. A considerable improvement in ORR activity was recently obtained in truncated octahedral Pt3Ni, which displayed a specific activity and mass activity as high as 850 μA cm−2 and 0.53 A mg−1, respectively, at 0.9 V.142 From a practical viewpoint, two issues should be considered for these non-particulate nanostructured catalysts. One is further reduction in size with retention of their shape to improve mass activity for competition with nano-particulate catalysts.7,142,145 The other is scalable production of non-particulate shaped nanocatalysts applied in commercial DMFCs.
3.5. Non-platinum catalysts
Until now, Pt-based catalysts were considered state-of-the-art catalysts for ORR. Nevertheless, from a long-term viewpoint, considering the limited mining capability and prohibitive cost of Pt metal, the development of non-platinum catalysts such as Pd-based catalysts, Ru–Se and heat-treated MeNxCy-based catalysts is significant for widespread application of DMFCs. In particular, these non-platinum catalysts are all inactive to the adsorption and oxidation of methanol. Thus, they are excellent methanol-resistant catalysts. Meanwhile, it is noteworthy that despite the existence of such non-platinum catalysts with low-cost and methanol-tolerant properties, the requirements for rational activity and durability are indispensable for acceptable cell performance. Specifically, the DOE set a specific target of 300 Acm−3 in 2015 for non-precious metal ORR catalysts.146
3.5.1. Pd-based catalysts Pd is regarded as the most Pt-like metal, but its electrocatalytic activity for ORR appears to be much lower than that of Pt. However, recent investigations have validated that the ORR activity of Pd can be effectively enhanced by alloying with other elements.147–160 In particular, the ORR activities for some Pd–Me alloys, such as Pd–Co, Pd–Co–Mo and Pd–Fe alloys,147,148,150,154,157,160,161 possess comparable or slightly better activity than that of commercial Pt catalysts. The promotion mechanism was then presented with respect to the synergistic effect between Pd and transition metals,147,148,157,162 the modified electronic structure of the Pd d-band,158,163 and the decrease in Oads strength on the Pd–Me alloy.151,159,160,164
Bard et al.157 proposed a simple thermodynamic method for searching bimetallic ORR catalysts. Specifically, in the case of Pd–Me alloys, the Me breaks the O–O bond; then the produced atomic oxygen migrates to and is reduced on the Pd surface. Combining the thermodynamic model and scanning electrochemical microscopy, it was predicted and then experimentally demonstrated that Pd–Co and Pd–Ti in ORR showed slightly better performance than Pt.147,148,157 According to the analysis of the Gibbs free energy of the elementary step, Balbuena proposed a thermodynamic rule for the design of bimetallic Ma–Mbcatalysts: couple a metal, Ma, with vacant valence d orbitals with a second metal, Mb, with fully occupied valence d orbitals. Thus, metal Ma is more efficient for the formation of the adsorbed species M–OOH, while metal Mb enhances the reductions of O and OH.162 Yu et al. developed the hypothesis that the improved alloy catalysts for ORR should have a surface layer that is noble (e.g., Pt, Pd, or Rh), while the second layer should have approximately 50% electropositive metal to decrease the critical barriers for ORR. Pd3W was proposed for dramatically improved ORR properties over pure Pd and close to that of pure Pt because it experimentally formed an ordered alloy and possessed a desirable d-band centre.165
Considering that the base-metal Me (Me = Fe, Co, Nietc.) is unstable in an electrochemical environment, the catalytic surface for a Pd–Me system should be Pt-rich or almost pure Pt. As such, Zhuang et al.151 suggested that the “Pd-shell/alloy-core” structure is preferable for Pd–Co catalysts. In their work, the weakened Oads adsorption energy induced by lattice strain was believed to account for the improved ORR activity of the Pd–Co catalysts. Similarly, in the work of Adzic,117 the lower d-band centre of the Pd skin on Pd3Fe(111) was considered to be the key factor responsible for the enhanced ORR activity. According to Norskov's work,96Pd was recognised to bind oxygen too firmly (more strongly than Pt) for efficient removal of the adsorbed reaction intermediates and the recovery of ORR active sites.96,164 Therefore, the Pd surface with a moderate interaction with oxygen was expected to be a more active surface for ORR.151,164,166 The stability of Pd in a fuel cell environment is causing concerns. For example, Pd–Co–Au/C catalysts have shown decreased performance in stability tests due to possible leaching of Co in the fuel cell environment.147 However, the cell with the Pd–Ti/C cathode showed essentially stable performance within this same test period.
3.5.2. Ru–Se catalysts Although Ru appears to be less active for ORR compared to the standard Pt catalysts, the research of Alonso-Vante167–169 demonstrated that the introduction of chalcogenides, especially selenium, could enhance the ORR activity of Ru catalysts. Similarly, Se-modified Ru catalysts have shown promise as methanol-tolerant ORR catalysts.
The nature of the catalytically active surface and role of Se is of fundamental interest, but no definite conclusions have been drawn until now. The dependence on the preparation methods and composition impacts the active surface structure of Ru–Sex. According to XPS and X-ray diffraction (XRD) results, Bron et al. indicated that Se-modified Ru particles were composed of a ruthenium core and an amorphous shell containing various Ru oxides, selenium and oxygen, as well as high amounts of carbon.170 Relying on the ratio of Se to Ru, Zaikovskii highlighted that, at a Se/Ru ratio <0.59, Ru selenide clusters as small as 1 nm were formed on the surface of the Ru particles. At high ratios (Se/Ru = 1), however, hexagonally packed Ru cores and Ru selenide shells were formed.171 Similarly, Fiechter et al.172 suggested that Se formed clusters on the Ru surface, while the rest of the surface was covered by oxygen. The Se-modified Ru particles could be considered to have the stoichiometry RuSexOy, assuming covalent bonding of O and Se similar to that found in oxyselenides.
With regard to the role of Se, Alonso-Vante held that chalcogen additives protected the Ru metal from oxidation.173 Furthermore, Hilgendorff suggested that selenium acts as a stabiliser against ruthenium oxidation and a the electron transfer bridge between substrate and catalytic centre.174 Similarly, Savinova stated that Se not only protected Ru from oxidation, leading to a decrease in O(H)ads coverage,171,175 but also accelerated the rate-determining step, presumably via an electronic influence.175
Considerable efforts have been made to obtain highly dispersed RuSex particles with high concentrations of surface sites, thus enhancing the mass activity.60,170,171,174,176,177 However, the achieved activity of these synthesised RuSex was still lower than standard Pt catalysts.168,174 Therefore, efforts should be invested in the optimisation of composition, structure, and synthetic method for these catalysts. In addition, the long-term durability should be considered before widespread practical application.
3.5.3. MeNxCy-based non-precious metal catalysts Although Pd-based and Ru–Se catalysts show promise as alternatives to Pt, this is still one precious metal replacing another. Thus, virtually all non-precious metal catalysts (NPMC) are of interest for large-scale and cost-competitive DMFCs. Recently, MeNxCycatalysts have been receiving increased attention due to their reasonable activity and remarkable selectivity towards ORR.178–181 For example, a breakthrough of volume-specific activity from 2.7 to 99 A cm−3 was recently achieved by the Dodelet group.146 As shown in Fig. 4, the most active Fe/N C−1catalyst appeared to be similar to state-of-the-art Pt-based cathodes at a cell voltage ≥0.9 V, while at lower potentials (and higher current density), a notable reduction in cell performance was found. Two methods were proposed to overcome this predicament in the high density zone: (a) further increase the volume-specific activity to make thinner NPMC-based cathodes (usually 50–100 vs. 10 μm for Pt-based cathodes), and (b) improve the transport characteristics of NPMC-based cathodes.146
Fig. 4 Comparison of the best NPMC with a Pt-based catalyst. Polarisation curves from H2–O2fuel cell testing (PO2 = PH2 = 1.5 bar, 80 °C, 100% RH) are shown for cathodes made with the best NPMC in this work, one with a loading of 1 mg cm−2 (circles) and another with a loading of 5.3 mg cm−2 (stars). Also shown is a ready-to-use Gore PRIMEA 5510 membrane electrodeassembly (MEA; W. L. Gore & Associates) with ∼0.4 mg Pt cm−2 at the cathode and anode (black line). Flow rates for H2 and O2 were well above stoichiometric. The actual Fe content in our catalyst was 1.7 wt %, resulting in a Fe loading of 17 μg cm−2 and a catalyst loading of 1 mg cm−2. Open circuit voltages were 1.03, 1.03, and 1.01 V for the MEAs using 17 and 90 μg Fe cm−2 and 400 μg Pt cm−2 at the cathode, respectively.146 Reprinted with permission from ref. 146. Copyright 2009, the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
MeNxCycatalysts are usually obtained through heat treatment of a mixture of metal salts, carbon, and N-containing molecular precursors. For example, to obtain Fe/N C−1catalysts, a mixture of carbon support, phenanthroline, and ferrous acetate precursors was first ball-milled and then pyrolysed twice, first in argon and then in ammonia.146 Interestingly, Bashyam and Zelenay182 developed a pyrolysis-free method to prepare the cobalt-polypyrrole composite catalyst with high ORR activity and stability. In terms of further synthetic methodology, recent reviews have summarised the effect of various parameters on the performance of MeNxCy, including metal content, nitrogen content, carbon support and heat-treatment procedures.178–180
One major obstacle for the application of MeNxCy is its fragility in the PEM environment. The degradation of the catalytic site is frequently attributed to the produced H2O2 in a two-electron process through attacking the active site and thus decomposing the chemical integrity of the catalytic sites.178,180,183,184 For example, the loss of metal184 or the N atoms183 caused by H2O2 was suggested to be responsible for the loss of electrocatalytic activity of MeNxCy. The improved selectivity for ORR through a direct four-electron path seems to mitigate the instability of MeNxCy. However, the stability for such a catalyst with a low amount of peroxide (1%185 or 3%184) was still much lower than the corresponding Pt catalysts. Recently, a remarkable improvement of stability was achieved by the group of Zelenay.186 The most stable NMPC derived from polyaniline, iron, and cobalt showed an 18 μA hour−1 loss in average current-density at 700-hour fuel-cell performance test at a constant cell voltage of 0.4 V. The presence of the graphitized carbon phase in an active catalyst was suggested to play a role in hosting ORR-active sites and enhancing stability of the polyaniline-derived catalysts.
The nature of the active site of MeNxCy is of fundamental interest. The metal species are generally recognised to be necessary for the formation of active sites. However, it is under discussion as to whether the metal ion is indispensable for ORR. On the one hand, it is believed that the active sites created at high temperature exist in the form MeNxCy, and the metal content significantly affects the end electrocatalytic performance.146,179,187 Given that the ORR activity of metal–free CNx sites is non-zero, its value has been too low to be of practical interest for high power density applications.179 In contrast, several groups188–191 pointed out that metal-free catalysts still possess a highly catalytic activity for ORR. Furthermore, pyridinic and graphitic nitrogen was proposed to act as the active sites of catalysts for ORR. In particular, pyridine-type nitrogens with one lone pair of electrons plus one electron donated to the conjugated π-bond facilitates the reductive oxygen adsorption.191 Despite the promising attributes of these catalysts, both their activity and stability are insufficient to satisfy practical requirements. Undoubtedly, the combination of a better understanding of the nature of the active site and introduction of new materials and synthetic method will be beneficial in improving the performance of NPMC.
4. Stability and durability
Over the past few decades, short-term performance (output power and power density) has met the demand of application.192 However, lifetime still challenges the commercial production of PEMFCs.181 There is an increasing body of literature involved in the durability and degradation of PEMFCs. Furthermore, comprehensive surveys on this topic have been presented in the literature.181,192 In general, durability strongly depends on the properties of key component materials (e.g., the metal catalyst, proton-conducting ionomer, gas diffusion layer, and carbon/graphite), the rational design of the cell structure and the operating conditions. The durability of catalysts plays a key role in the lifetime of PEMFCs. To improve the durability of catalysts for DMFCs, in addition to Pt particle dissolution and growth and carbon corrosion, ruthenium dissolution-crossover and methanol crossover should be dealt with deliberately. Based on the selected reports, the main degradation mechanism of catalysts and correspondingly feasible strategies are presented and discussed.
4.1. Pt particle dissolution and growth
From a practical interest, nanoscale metallic particles are widely applied as catalysts in PEMFCs. Nanoscale size effectively imparts catalysts with large electrochemical surface area (ECSA) while causing thermodynamic instability as a result of high specific surface free energy. Consequently, interrelated Pt particle dissolution and growth was generally observed and subsequently led to the loss of ECSA. This pathway is regarded as a main degradation mechanism of Pt catalysts. It is worth noting that, in addition to deposition on Pt particles leading to particle growth, the dissolved Pt species may diffuse into the ionomer phase, causing deceases in membrane conductivity and stability.193–195
The rates of Pt particle dissolution and growth generally increase with increasing potential196,197 and temperature.197 In addition, the rates are generally faster on cathodes than anodes due to more positive potential at the cathode.198,199 Tang et al. used electrochemical scanning tunnelling microscopy with ab initio computations to examine the dissolution behaviour of individual Pt nanoparticles. Their results showed that Pt dissolution from a nanoparticle occurred by direct electro-oxidation of Pt to soluble Pt2+cations, unlike bulk Pt, which dissolved from the oxide.200 Meanwhile, Ferreira193 showed that the platinum equilibrium concentration increased when the electrode potential increased from 0.9 to 1.1 V vs. RHE and with increasing temperature. However, some researchers have observed that, when the potential was extended higher than 1.1 V196 or 1.15 V,197 the dissolution rate of Pt started to diminish due to the formation of a passivating platinum oxide layer.197 It thus seems that Pt is stable at low potentials due to the low equilibrium concentration of Pt2+, and Pt is also fairly stable at higher potentials due to the protective oxide layer. Transitions between these two potentials, however, can undermine the stability of the Pt crystallites. Indeed, a potential cycling process has been shown to accelerate Pt dissolution in comparison to an applied constant process.193,201 Recently, Jinnouchi et al. showed site-dependent dissolution potentials of Pt particles in which Pt atoms at edges, due to their higher d-band centres, dissolved more easily than Pt atoms on flat surfaces.202
Despite no agreement on the dominant particle growth mechanism, two main mechanisms are proposed to account for metal particle growth during realistic operating processes. One is the so-called Ostwald ripening mechanism, where small particles with high specific surface energy would dissolve and redeposit on the large particle surface. The other is the coalescence mechanism, where local fine particles and nonadjacent crystallite Pt particles coalesce together through migration to form larger particles. The evolution of particle growth with operating time can be directly characterised from transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images or XRD patterns. Generally, the size of Pt particles increases with increasing the test time.204
To address the challenge of Pt particle dissolution and growth, the Pt alloy strategy has been widely used to increase the durability and performance of catalysts. Antolini205 surveyed the stability of Pt–Me (Me = first row transition metal) alloy catalysts and found both enhanced and lowered stability of Pt-based binary catalysts. For example, Pt–Cr and Pt–Co generally obtained higher stability than Pt–V, Pt–Ni and Pt–Fe in acid medium.205
However, the hazard of dissolution of the base metal into the reaction medium on catalytic activity and cell performance cannot be ignored. To address this base metal dissolution problem, preleaching of alloys before preparation of electrodes was proposed to minimise base metal contamination.77,97 In contrast to base metal modification of Pt, Pt nanoparticles modified by Au clusters displayed neglectable loss of activity after 30 000 potential cycles between 0.7 and 1.1 V. The ultrahigh stability for the Au/Pt/C catalysts was ascribed to the stabilisation effect of the Au clusters, which raised the Pt oxidation potential.109
In addition to composition tuning, considerable attention has been paid to structure optimisation. As indicated previously, the core-shell structure is regarded as a stable structure in the electrochemical environment. For example, Pt–on–Pd heteronanostructures showed improved stability over 30,000 cycles.128 Supportless nanotubes, nanowires and multi-armed star-like nanowires were also indicated to have enhanced stability against dissolution and ripening. This effect was ascribed to their unique structures and dimensions, conferring advantages such as preferential exposure of defect free, low-energy crystal facets, micrometre-sized length and the absence of carbon corrosion.7,132,206,207
Coating a porous shell on catalysts such as silica208–210 and carbon shells211 acts as a protective layer to inhibit the migration and coalescence of metal particles and simultaneously provide mass-transfer channels. This concept has been demonstrated in the literature.208–210 For example, Jiang et al. utilised an in situ carbonisation of glucose to form carbon coating layers on a Pt/TiO2–C catalyst. Their results showed that the carbon riveted Pt/TiO2–C catalyst had a much greater stability than Pt/TiO2–C and Pt/C with similar activity.211
Last but not least, increasing the interaction between the support and metallic particles has also been well developed as an effective path to alleviate the pernicious effect of Pt particle dissolution and growth.
4.2. Carbon corrosion
In addition to Pt particle dissolution and growth, support corrosion also remarkably accelerates the degradation of catalysts. In general, carbon corrosion is negligible at potentials lower than 1.1 V vs. RHE due to its slow kinetics.192 Nevertheless, the presence of catalysts such as Pt is believed to reduce the potential of carbon oxidation and accelerate carbon corrosion.203,212,213 Moreover, under conditions of start-up/shut-down cycles and local fuel starvation, carbon in the cathode was demonstrated to suffer severe corrosion, and a “reverse-current” was observed.214,215 As illustrated in Fig. 5, carbon corrosion can result in accelerated degradation of catalysts. In addition, the increase in oxygen-containing groups on the carbon surface is also believed to impair the conductivity of carbon and mass-transport of oxygen.212
Fig. 5 Schematic representation of the effect of carbon corrosion on (1) agglomeration, (2) coalescence, and (3) loss of Pt particles in membrane electrodeassembly during operation of PEMFCs: (a) normal (corrosion-resistant) electrode and (b) corroded electrode.203 Reprinted with permission from ref. 203. Copyright 2009, the American Chemical Society.
To address carbon corrosion, increasing efforts have been devoted to developing advanced support materials. Carbon materials212,216–219 with a high degree of graphitisation, such as graphitised Carbon Black, carbon nanotubes and carbon nanofibres, are believed to be more corrosion-resistant than conventional Carbon Black. The enhanced graphitisation degree leads to a stronger delocalised π-bond (sp2-hybridised carbon), thus strengthening the interaction with Pt.212,216–218 Therefore, graphitisation not only leads to reduced defects but also enhances interactions between support and metal. Furthermore, Hartl et al. revealed that the low surface area of carbon modified with a transition metal support further stabilised Pt particles attached to the support.220
One concern of these graphitic supports with small specific surface areas and chemical inertness is how to effectively disperse Pt nanoparticles on such support materials. In contrast, nitrogen-incorporated carbon materials were regarded to enhance the support-catalyst chemical binding strength and simultaneously modify the electronic structure of the catalysts. These two effects contributed to a better dispersion and stabilisation of metal nanoparticles, thus leading to improved activity and durability of the catalysts.221–223 Importantly, nitrogen-doped carbon materials were recently proven to possess high electrocatalytic activity for ORR, even better than that of Pt/C, in alkaline medium.224,225
Recently, increasing attention has also been paid to alternatives of carbon materials, including diamonds, oxides, carbides and nonconductive whiskers.32,226–232 Compared to a common carbon support, those alternative support materials usually have a lower surface area and electrical conductivity but better stability in an electrochemical environment. Correspondingly, the tactics of doping and nanometre-sized morphology were widely adopted to improve the electric conductivity and available surface area of these alternatives. As such, TiO2 has received increasing attention because of its inherent stability in an electrochemical environment and beneficial interaction with metal catalysts. For example, Popov and co-workers203 showed that Pt particles supported on mesoporous TiO2 as cathode catalysts possessed much better durability than commercial Pt/C. Furthermore, doped TiO2 (e.g., Ti0.7W0.3O2) nanoparticles as catalyst support were well explored by Disalvo. The obtained Pt/Ti0.7W0.3O2catalyst showed high durability and CO tolerance while also possessing comparable rates of ORR and hydrogen oxidation to commercial Pt/C.231,232
Graphene, a new two-dimensional (2-D) carbon material, has attracted wide interest because of its unique structure, high surface area, and high electrical conductivity. For example, Kou et al. demonstrated that Pt nanoparticles were stabilised at indium tin oxide (ITO)-graphene junctions. This special metal-metal oxide-graphene (Pt-ITO-graphene) triple junction structure exhibited greatly enhanced performance, especially in durability. In addition, their experimental results combining density functional theory modelling indicated that the defects and functional groups on graphene also played important roles in interfacial binding233 From a practical point of view, it is worth noting that the improved durability without sacrificing mass activity will be beneficial for contemporary DMFCs
4.3. Ru dissolution and crossover
Although the anode has relatively mild conditions as compared to the cathode, recent studies234–239 have emphasised the risk to Ru, the most used promotion element for MOR, of decreased durability in DMFCs. It is well known that, at low potentials, Ru enables dissociation of water and the formation of hydroxyl species to promote the oxidation of CO-like species adsorbed on neighbouring Pt.40,240,241 However, it has also been indicated that Ru might be quite unstable and prone to dissolution under realistic fuel cell environments over the long term. For example, Taniguchi et al.242 observed severe Ru loss from the anode of Pt–Ru particles, especially in the fuel outlet region. Furthermore, Piela et al.239 exhibited direct X-ray fluorescence (XRF) evidence that Ru species could travel across membranes and redeposit on the Pt surface of the cathode, even under cell humidification conditions. This Ru dissolution and crossover has also been observed and confirmed by many other groups.234,236–238,242–245
One concern in terms of Ru crossover is how Ru can travel through the membrane. According to the results of a Pourbaix diagram for the Ru/water system, Piela239 claimed that Ru in Pt–Ru alloys should be thermodynamically stable and have unfavourable dissolution in a normal anode environment. In contrast, hydrous RuO2 ultrafine particles are more likely to leach from the catalyst powder, permeate the membrane, and redeposit on cathodic catalysts.239 Contrary to the hydrous RuO2 crossover mechanism, Chung et al.236 argued that the dissolved cationic ruthenium travelled across the membrane. Furthermore, it was asserted that Ru ions were electrodeposited as RuOx rather than metallic Ru, and the amount of Ru oxide quantitatively correlated to the loss of performance seen in XPS and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry.236
The detrimental effect of Ru instability on cell performance has been well documented. The work of Piela showed that, after a cathode was contaminated by Ru species, the MOR and ORR kinetics were inhibited thus jeopardising cell performance239 (Fig. 6). Meanwhile, reduced CO tolerance was found for Pt–Ru catalysts from CO stripping voltammetry.242 Furthermore, according to the results of electrochemical impedance, increased ohmic resistance was also observed.237
Fig. 6 Impact of ruthenium on oxygen reduction performance. (a) CO stripping scans for the cathode and anode, (b) steady-state anode polarisation plots before and after contamination of the cathode, (c) H2–air steady-state polarisation curves, and (d) DMFC steady state polarisation curves. Methanol concentration, 0.3 M; anode potential during contamination, 1.3 V vs.hydrogen counter/quasi-reference electrode; cell temperature, 75 °C.239 Reprinted with permission from ref. 239. Copyright 2004, The Electrochemical Society.
In view of ruthenium crossover as a substantial degradation mechanism for the performance of DMFCs, considerable efforts have been directed towards the development of durable Pt–Ru catalysts. As Piela demonstrated, the hot-pressing process can better immobilise Pt–Ru, and the pretreatment of Pt–Ru in acid solution removes loose Ru. When combining these two processes, a fairly Ru-free cathode could be obtained.239 In addition, the study of Lee displayed that well-alloyed PtRu catalysts have lower rates of Ru dissolution.46 Zhao et al.246 stated that the incorporation of Au in Pt–Ru catalysts increased the oxidation potential of Ru, thus stabilising the Pt–Ru catalysts against Ru dissolution. Enhancing the interaction between the metal particles and the support was also widely used.247,248 For example, the introduction of titanium oxide was believed to enhance the interaction between the metal particles and support materials247 or inhibit the diffusion of dissolved Ru species into the electrolyte.221 Moreover, the method of adding a protective coating layer onto Pt–Ru catalysts, such as manganese dioxide249 or a thin silica layer,208 was shown to effectively improve their durability.
4.4. Methanol crossover
Although little work has been done on methanol crossover for the long-term performance of catalyst,250methanol crossover causes substantial detriment to short-term performance of DMFCs. This is unfortunate, as methanol crossover should be addressed for the application of DMFCs. As far as the current technology allows, three areas of effort have been made: (a) the development of an alternative ionomeric membrane rather than a poly[perfluorosulfonic acid] (PFSA) membrane (e.g., polybenzimidazole, polyamide and poly(ether ether ketone)) and the modification of PFSA-based membranes251–258 (b) the optimization of membrane electrodeassembly (MEA), cell design, and operating condition3,259–262 (c) the development of methanol-tolerant cathode catalysts.
In light of a similar dependence on water content and porosity for the transportation of the proton and methanol through the membrane, it is not easy to eliminate methanol crossover. However, by tightly controlling proton conductivity (σ) and the methanol diffusion coefficient (D), a high ratio of σ/D can be obtained for alternative ionomeric membranes, thus contributing to improved cell performance compared to commercial Nafion©.251,256 Recently, Liet al. studied the effect of ion exchange capacity (IEC) on the transport properties of PFSA membranes and reported that the highest value of σ/D was obtained for PFSA membranes at an IEC of 0.89 mmol g−1, which was even better than that of a Nafion@117 membrane.258
Using common polymer electrolyte membranes in DMFCs, a reduction by 50% or more in the rate of methanol crossover can still be obtained by adjusting the concentration of methanol in the anode feed stream to match the power requirement.3 Furthermore, Los Alamos National Laboratory demonstrated that an appropriate cell design enabled fuel utilisation as high as 90% in high performance DMFCs.2 Moreover, Krewer et al. presented their efforts to develop a reliable model for the estimation of methanol crossover and indicated the feasibility of feed-forward (sensorless) control of anodic methanol concentrations in DMFC systems.261
5. Conclusions and outlook
Even though solid advancements have been made towards critical performance/cost targets for DMFCs, the catalysts still represent a significant challenge for broad application of DMFCs. In terms of highly CO-resistant Pt–Me catalysts, three factors need to be considered: (a) the effective spilled pathway of CO, (b) the ability of providing Me–OHads on Me sites, and (c) the ability to release Pt active sites. On the other hand, it is of interest to improve the direct pathway/active intermediate pathway selectivity of MOR, thus avoiding CO generation.
With respect to ORR catalysts, the downshifted d-band centre and weakened oxygen binding energy for Pt seem to be considerably important for improved Pt-based ORR activity. In light of the Pt3Ni(111)-skin surface possessing the highest reported ORR activity, the challenge would be to create nano-scale catalysts with electronic and morphological properties that mimic this Pt3Ni(111)-skin surface.86 In terms of non-platinum catalysts, even though they offer the promising features of low cost and inactivity to MOR, their performance in terms of activity and durability still need to be improved to establish their practical advantages for the wide-spread implementation of DMFCs. A better understanding of the nature of the active site and the introduction of new materials and innovative synthetic methods would contribute to substantial advances in such catalysts.
The durability of catalysts plays an indispensable role in the practical implementation of DMFCs. Stabilisation strategies for supported Pt-based catalysts should consider the following aspects: (a) the optimum composition and structure for improved oxidation potential of Pt, (b) the self-stability of the support material and the modifying metals in an electrochemical environment, and (c) the increased interaction between support and metal. In any case, the improved durability of catalysts is expected to be without loss in catalytic activity.
Last but not least, in light of current DMFCs being poor cost-effective power sources, a respectable ratio of performance-to-cost is essential to establish DMFCs on the market of power sources. The combination of the efforts presented in this perspective is believed to pave the way to widespread application of DMFCs.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported the by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 20876153, 20703043, 21073180, 21011130027, 21073180 and 20933004), the National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program, 2011CB935702), the National High Technology Research and Development Program of China (863 Program, Nos. 2007AA05Z159 and 2007AA05Z143), the Knowledge Innovation Project of CAS (KGCXZ-Y10-344) and the Science & Technology Research Programs of Jilin Province (Nos. 20102204 and 20100420).
References
S. Wasmus and A. Kuver , J. Electroanal. Chem., 1999, 461 , 14 —31 CrossRef CAS .
X. M. Ren , P. Zelenay , S. Thomas , J. Davey and S. Gottesfeld , J. Power Sources, 2000, 86 , 111 —116 CrossRef CAS .
S. C. Thomas , X. M. Ren , S. Gottesfeld and P. Zelenay , Electrochim. Acta, 2002, 47 , 3741 —3748 CrossRef CAS .
R. Dillon , S. Srinivasan , A. S. Aricò and V. Antonucci , J. Power Sources, 2004, 127 , 112 —126 CrossRef CAS .
H. S. Liu , C. J. Song , L. Zhang , J. J. Zhang , H. J. Wang and D. P. Wilkinson , J. Power Sources, 2006, 155 , 95 —110 CrossRef CAS .
Electrocatalysis of Direct Methanol Fuel Cells: From Fundamentals to Applications , H. S. Liu and J. J. Zhang, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim, Germany, 2009, Search PubMed .
C. Koenigsmann and S. S. Wong , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 1161 RSC .
K. Yamamoto , T. Imaoka , W.-J. Chun , O. Enoki , H. Katoh , M. Takenaga and A. Sonoi , Nat. Chem., 2009, 1 , 397 —402 CrossRef CAS .
M. W. Breiter J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1967, 15 , 221 CrossRef CAS .
M. W. Breiter J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1967, 14 , 407 CrossRef CAS .
M. W. Breiter and S. Gilman , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1962, 109 , 622 —627 CrossRef CAS .
M. Watanabe and S. Motoo , J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1975, 60 , 267 —273 CrossRef CAS .
T. Frelink , W. Visscher and J. A. R. Vanveen , Surf. Sci., 1995, 335 , 353 —360 CrossRef CAS .
M. Arenz , K. J. J. Mayrhofer , V. Stamenkovic , B. B. Blizanac , T. Tomoyuki , P. N. Ross and N. M. Markovic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 6819 —6829 CrossRef CAS .
N. M. Markovic and P. N. Ross , Surf. Sci. Rep., 2002, 45 , 117 —229 CrossRef CAS .
A. Lopez-Cudero , J. Solla-Gullon , E. Herrero , A. Aldaz and J. M. Feliu , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2010, 644 , 117 —126 CrossRef CAS .
F. J. Vidal-Iglesias , J. Solla-Gullon , J. M. Campina , E. Herrero , A. Aldaz and J. M. Feliu , Electrochim. Acta, 2009, 54 , 4459 —4466 CrossRef CAS .
C. A. Angelucci , E. Herrero and J. M. Feliu , J. Solid State Electrochem., 2007, 11 , 1531 —1539 CrossRef CAS .
J. Solla-Gullon , F. J. Vidal-Iglesias , E. Herrero , J. M. Feliu and A. Aldaz , Electrochem. Commun., 2006, 8 , 189 —194 CrossRef CAS .
M. J. S. Farias , A. A. Tanaka , G. Tremiliosi and J. M. Feliu , Electrochem. Commun., 2011, 13 , 338 —341 CrossRef CAS .
N. P. Lebedeva , A. Rodes , J. M. Feliu , M. T. M. Koper and R. A. van Santen , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2002, 106 , 9863 —9872 CrossRef CAS .
F. Maillard , M. Eikerling , O. V. Cherstiouk , S. Schreier , E. Savinova and U. Stimming , Faraday Discuss., 2004, 125 , 357 —377 RSC .
J. Solla-Gullon , F. J. Vidal-Iglesias , A. Lopez-Cudero , E. Garnier , J. M. Feliu and A. Aldaza , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10 , 3689 —3698 RSC .
S. W. Lee , S. O. Chen , W. C. Sheng , N. Yabuuchi , Y. T. Kim , T. Mitani , E. Vescovo and Y. Shao-Horn , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 15669 —15677 CrossRef CAS .
D. S. Strmcnik , D. V. Tripkovic , D. van der Vliet , K. C. Chang , V. Komanicky , H. You , G. Karapetrov , J. Greeley , V. R. Stamenkovic and N. M. Markovic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2008, 130 , 15332 —15339 CrossRef CAS .
K. J. J. Mayrhofer , M. Arenz , B. B. Blizanac , V. Stamenkovic , P. N. Ross and N. M. Markovic , Electrochim. Acta, 2005, 50 , 5144 —5154 CrossRef CAS .
S. Park , Y. Xie and M. J. Weaver , Langmuir, 2002, 18 , 5792 —5798 CrossRef CAS .
N. P. Lebedeva , M. T. M. Koper , J. M. Feliu and R. A. van Santen , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2002, 106 , 12938 —12947 CrossRef CAS .
J. R. C. Salgado , R. G. Duarte , L. M. Ilharco , A. M. B. do Rego , A. M. Ferraria and M. G. S. Ferreira , Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 102 , 496 —504 CrossRef CAS .
Z. M. Cui , W. Xing , C. P. Liu , D. Tian and H. Zhang , J. Power Sources, 2010, 195 , 1619 —1623 CrossRef CAS .
Z. M. Cui , L. G. Feng , C. P. Liu and W. Xing , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 2621 —2626 CrossRef CAS .
D. M. Gu , Y. Y. Chu , Z. B. Wang , Z. Z. Jiang , G. Yin and Y. Liu , Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 102 , 9 —18 CrossRef CAS .
S. C. S. Lai , N. P. Lebedeva , T. H. M. Housmans and M. T. M. Koper , Top. Catal., 2007, 46 , 320 —333 CrossRef CAS .
S. Mukerjee and J. McBreen , J. Electroanal. Chem., 1998, 448 , 163 —171 CrossRef CAS .
A.-X. Yin , X.-Q. Min , Y.-W. Zhang and C.-H. Yan , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2011, 133 , 3816 —3819 CrossRef CAS .
S. Y. Wang , S. P. Jiang , X. Wang and J. Guo , Electrochim. Acta, 2011, 56 , 1563 —1569 CrossRef CAS .
R. Minch and M. Es-Souni , J. Mater. Chem., 2011, 21 , 4182 —4188 RSC .
Y. W. Lee , A. R. Ko , S. B. Han , H. S. Kim and K. W. Park , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2011, 13 , 5569 —5572 RSC .
E. Herrero , K. Franaszczuk and A. Wiecskowski , J. Electroanal. Chem., 1993, 361 , 269 —273 CrossRef CAS .
L. Ma , C. P. Liu , J. H. Liao , T. H. Lu , W. Xing and J. J. Zhang , Electrochim. Acta, 2009, 54 , 7274 —7279 CrossRef CAS .
S. Jones , K. Tedsree , M. Sawangphruk , J. S. Foord , J. Fisher , D. Thompsett and S. C. E. Tsang , ChemCatChem, 2010, 2 , 1089 —1095 Search PubMed .
A. Murthy and A. Manthiram , Electrochem. Commun., 2011, 13 , 310 —313 CrossRef CAS .
J. C. Davies , B. E. Hayden and D. J. Pegg , Surf. Sci., 2000, 467 , 118 —130 CrossRef CAS .
C. Roth , N. Benker , T. Buhrmester , M. Mazurek , M. Loster , H. Fuess , D. C. Koningsberger and D. E. Ramaker , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 14607 —14615 CrossRef CAS .
S. Sen , F. Sen and G. Gokagac , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2011, 13 , 6784 —6792 RSC .
K. S. Lee , T. Y. Jeon , S. J. Yoo , I. S. Park , Y. H. Cho , S. H. Kang , K. H. Choi and Y. E. Sung , Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 102 , 334 —342 CrossRef CAS .
D. R. Rolison , P. L. Hagans , K. E. Swider and J. W. Long , Langmuir, 1999, 15 , 774 —779 CrossRef CAS .
Q. Y. Lu , B. Yang , L. Zhuang and J. T. Lu , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109 , 1715 —1722 CrossRef CAS .
L. Cao , F. Scheiba , C. Roth , F. Schweiger , C. Cremers , U. Stimming , H. Fuess , L. Chen , W. Zhu and X. Qiu , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2006, 45 , 5315 —5319 CrossRef CAS .
J. H. Ma , Y. Y. Feng , J. Yu , D. Zhao , A. J. Wang and B. Q. Xu , J. Catal., 2010, 275 , 34 —44 CrossRef CAS .
F. Maillard , G. Q. Lu , A. Wieckowski and U. Stimming , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109 , 16230 —16243 CrossRef CAS .
E. A. Franceschini , G. A. Planes , F. J. Williams , G. Soler-Illia and H. R. Corti , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 1723 —1729 CrossRef CAS .
D. Kaplan , M. Alon , L. Burstein , Y. Rosenberg and E. Peled , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 1078 —1083 CrossRef CAS .
X. R. Jiang , T. N. Gur , F. B. Prinz and S. F. Bent , Chem. Mater., 2010, 22 , 3024 —3032 CrossRef CAS .
Loka Subramanyam Sarma , Ching-Hsiang Chen , Di-Yan Wang , Feng-Ju Lai , Cun-Cun Al Andra , Shi-Hong Chang , Din-Goa Liu , Chia-Chun Chen , Jyh-Fu Lee and Bing-Joe Hwang , ChemCatChem, 2010, 2 , 159 —166 Search PubMed .
K. Sasaki , J. X. Wang , M. Balasubramanian , J. McBreen , F. Uribe and R. R. Adzic , Electrochim. Acta, 2004, 49 , 3873 —3877 CrossRef CAS .
A. S. Arico , V. Baglio , E. Modica , A. Di Blasi and V. Antonucci , Electrochem. Commun., 2004, 6 , 164 —169 CrossRef CAS .
T. Page , R. Johnson , J. Hormes , S. Noding and B. Rambabu , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2000, 485 , 34 —41 CrossRef CAS .
Kenji Izumi , Hiroyuki Uchida , Koichi Aoki and Masahiro Watanabe , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2009, 11 , 1771 —1779 RSC .
M. Montiel , S. Garcia-Rodriguez , P. Hernandez-Fernandez , R. Diaz , S. Rojas , J. L. G. Fierro , E. Fatas and P. Ocon , J. Power Sources, 2010, 195 , 2478 —2487 CrossRef CAS .
H. Yang , J. Zhang , K. Sun , S. Zou and J. Fang , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49 , 6848 —6851 CrossRef CAS .
Luhua Jiang , Qian Jiang , Hongying Hou , Jing Qi , Suli Wang and Gongquan Sun , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 19714 —19722 CrossRef CAS .
D. B. Kim , H. J. Chun , Y. K. Lee , H. H. Kwon and H. I. Lee , Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2010, 35 , 313 —320 CrossRef CAS .
F. Liu , J. Y. Lee and W. J. Zhou , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108 , 17959 —17963 CrossRef CAS .
X. Zhang , K. Y. Tsang and K. Y. Chan , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2004, 573 , 1 —9 CrossRef CAS .
T. E. Shubina and M. T. M. Koper , Electrochim. Acta, 2002, 47 , 3621 —3628 CrossRef CAS .
C. Dupont , Y. Jugnet and D. Loffreda , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128 , 9129 —9136 CrossRef CAS .
M. Gotz and H. Wendt , Electrochim. Acta, 1998, 43 , 3637 —3644 CrossRef CAS .
Z. H. Zhou , W. S. Li , Z. Fu and X. D. Xiang , Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2010, 35 , 936 —941 CrossRef CAS .
K. Miyazaki , K. Matsuoka , Y. Iriyama , T. Abe and Z. Ogumi , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2005, 152 , A1870 —A1873 CrossRef CAS .
N. R. Elezovic , B. M. Babic , V. R. Radmilovic , S. L. Gojkovic , N. V. Krstajic and L. M. Vracar , J. Power Sources, 2008, 175 , 250 —255 CrossRef CAS .
S. Mukerjee and R. C. Urian , Electrochim. Acta, 2002, 47 , 3219 —3231 CrossRef CAS .
Liang Ma , Xiao Zhao , Fengzhan Si , Changpeng Liu , Jianhui Liao , Liang Liang and W. Xing , Electrochim. Acta, 2010, 55 , 9105 —9112 CrossRef CAS .
S. Mukerjee and J. McBreen , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1999, 146 , 600 —606 CrossRef CAS .
J. H. Kim , S. M. Choi , S. H. Nam , M. H. Seo , S. H. Choi and W. B. Kim , Appl. Catal., B, 2008, 82 , 89 —102 CrossRef CAS .
K. Kinoshita J. Electrochem. Soc., 1990, 137 , 845 —848 CrossRef CAS .
H. A. Gasteiger , S. S. Kocha , B. Sompalli and F. T. Wagner , Appl. Catal., B, 2005, 56 , 9 —35 CrossRef CAS .
L. J. Bregoli Electrochim. Acta, 1978, 23 , 489 —492 CrossRef CAS .
M. Watanabe , S. Saegusa and P. Stonehart , Chem. Lett., 1988, 1487 —1490 CrossRef CAS .
M. Watanabe , H. Sei and P. Stonehart , J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1989, 261 , 375 —387 CrossRef CAS .
A. Gamez , D. Richard , P. Gallezot , F. Gloaguen , R. Faure and R. Durand , Electrochim. Acta, 1996, 41 , 307 —314 CrossRef CAS .
N. Markovic , H. Gasteiger and P. N. Ross , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1997, 144 , 1591 —1597 CrossRef CAS .
M. Watanabe , H. Sei and P. Stonehart , J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1989, 261 , 375 —387 CrossRef CAS .
H. Yano , T. Akiyama , H. Uchida and M. Watanabe , Energy Environ. Sci., 2010, 3 , 1511 —1514 RSC .
E. F. Holby , W. C. Sheng , Y. Shao-Horn and D. Morgan , Energy Environ. Sci., 2009, 2 , 865 —871 RSC .
V. R. Stamenkovic , B. Fowler , B. S. Mun , G. F. Wang , P. N. Ross , C. A. Lucas and N. M. Markovic , Science, 2007, 315 , 493 —497 CrossRef CAS .
S. J. Hwang , S. J. Yoo , S. Jang , T. H. Lim , S. A. Hong and S. K. Kim , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115 , 2483 —2488 CrossRef CAS .
V. R. Stamenkovic , B. S. Mun , M. Arenz , K. J. J. Mayrhofer , C. A. Lucas , G. F. Wang , P. N. Ross and N. M. Markovic , Nat. Mater., 2007, 6 , 241 —247 CrossRef CAS .
V. Jalan and E. J. Taylor , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1983, 130 , 2299 —2301 CrossRef CAS .
P. Stonehart J. Appl. Electrochem., 1992, 22 , 995 —1001 CrossRef CAS .
M. T. Paffett , J. G. Beery and S. Gottesfeld , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1988, 135 , 1431 —1436 CrossRef CAS .
R. Z. Yang , J. Leisch , P. Strasser and M. F. Toney , Chem. Mater., 2010, 22 , 4712 —4720 CrossRef CAS .
T. Toda , H. Igarashi , H. Uchida and M. Watanabe , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1999, 146 , 3750 —3756 CrossRef CAS .
T. Toda , H. Igarashi and M. Watanabe , J. Electroanal. Chem., 1999, 460 , 258 —262 CrossRef CAS .
P. Strasser , S. Koh , T. Anniyev , J. Greeley , K. More , C. F. Yu , Z. C. Liu , S. Kaya , D. Nordlund , H. Ogasawara , M. F. Toney and A. Nilsson , Nat. Chem., 2010, 2 , 454 —460 CrossRef CAS .
J. K. Norskov , J. Rossmeisl , A. Logadottir , L. Lindqvist , J. R. Kitchin , T. Bligaard and H. Jonsson , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108 , 17886 —17892 CrossRef CAS .
J. A. Zhao and A. Manthiram , Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 101 , 660 —668 CrossRef CAS .
S. Koh , C. Yu , P. Mani , R. Srivastava and P. Strasser , J. Power Sources, 2007, 172 , 50 —56 CrossRef CAS .
J. Kim , Y. Lee and S. H. Sun , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 4996 CrossRef CAS .
M. Watanabe , K. Tsurumi , T. Mizukami , T. Nakamura and P. Stonehart , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1994, 141 , 2659 —2668 CrossRef CAS .
L. Xiong and A. Manthiram , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2005, 152 , A697 —A703 CrossRef CAS .
G. S. Karlberg , J. Rossmeisl and J. K. Norskov , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2007, 9 , 5158 —5161 RSC .
J. Greeley and J. K. Norskov , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2009, 113 , 4932 —4939 CrossRef CAS .
J. Greeley , I. E. L. Stephens , A. S. Bondarenko , T. P. Johansson , H. A. Hansen , T. F. Jaramillo , J. Rossmeisl , I. Chorkendorff and J. K. Norskov , Nat. Chem., 2009, 1 , 552 —556 CrossRef CAS .
J. K. Norskov , T. Bligaard , J. Rossmeisl and C. H. Christensen , Nat. Chem., 2009, 1 , 37 —46 CrossRef CAS .
J. Rossmeisl , G. S. Karlberg , T. Jaramillo and J. K. Norskov , Faraday Discuss., 2009, 140 , 337 —346 RSC .
J. Greeley and J. K. Norskov , Electrochim. Acta, 2007, 52 , 5829 —5836 CrossRef CAS .
G. F. Wei and Z. P. Liu , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 1268 —1272 RSC .
J. Zhang , K. Sasaki , E. Sutter and R. R. Adzic , Science, 2007, 315 , 220 —222 CrossRef CAS .
V. Jalan and E. J. Taylor , J. Electrochem. Soc., 1983, 130 , 2299 —2302 CrossRef CAS .
J. R. Kitchin , J. K. Norskov , M. A. Barteau and J. G. Chen , J. Chem. Phys., 2004, 120 , 10240 —10246 CrossRef CAS .
J. R. Kitchin , J. K. Norskov , M. A. Barteau and J. G. Chen , Phys. Rev. Lett., 2004, 93 , Search PubMed .
D. V. Tripkovic , D. Strmcnik , D. van der Vliet , V. Stamenkovic and N. M. Markovic , Faraday Discuss., 2009, 140 , 25 —40 RSC .
V. R. Stamenkovic , B. S. Mun , K. J. J. Mayrhofer , P. N. Ross and N. M. Markovic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128 , 8813 —8819 CrossRef CAS .
J. L. Zhang , M. B. Vukmirovic , K. Sasaki , A. U. Nilekar , M. Mavrikakis and R. R. Adzic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 12480 —12481 CrossRef CAS .
T. Ghosh , M. B. Vukmirovic , F. J. DiSalvo and R. R. Adzic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 906 CrossRef CAS .
W. P. Zhou , X. F. Yang , M. B. Vukmirovic , B. E. Koel , J. Jiao , G. W. Peng , M. Mavrikakis and R. R. Adzic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 12755 —12762 CrossRef CAS .
I. Choi , S. H. Ahn , J. J. Kim and O. J. Kwon , Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 102 , 608 —613 CrossRef CAS .
H. Zhang , Y. J. Yin , Y. J. Hu , C. Y. Li , P. Wu , S. H. Wei and C. X. Cai , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 11861 —11867 CrossRef CAS .
J. L. Zhang , M. B. Vukmirovic , Y. Xu , M. Mavrikakis and R. R. Adzic , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2005, 44 , 2132 —2135 CrossRef CAS .
S. Koh and P. Strasser , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2007, 129 , 12624 CrossRef CAS .
K. C. Neyerlin , R. Srivastava , C. F. Yu and P. Strasser , J. Power Sources, 2009, 186 , 261 —267 CrossRef CAS .
J. X. Wang , H. Inada , L. J. Wu , Y. M. Zhu , Y. M. Choi , P. Liu , W. P. Zhou and R. R. Adzic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 17298 —17302 CrossRef CAS .
R. Srivastava , P. Mani , N. Hahn and P. Strasser , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2007, 46 , 8988 —8991 CrossRef CAS .
K. Sasaki , J. X. Wang , H. Naohara , N. Marinkovic , K. More , H. Inada and R. R. Adzic , Electrochim. Acta, 2010, 55 , 2645 —2652 CrossRef CAS .
M. H. Shao , K. Shoemaker , A. Peles , K. Kaneko and L. Protsailo , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 9253 —9255 CrossRef CAS .
P. Mani , R. Srivastava and P. Strasser , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 666 —673 CrossRef CAS .
Z. M. Peng and H. Yang , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 7542 CrossRef CAS .
B. Lim , M. J. Jiang , P. H. C. Camargo , E. C. Cho , J. Tao , X. M. Lu , Y. M. Zhu and Y. A. Xia , Science, 2009, 324 , 1302 —1305 CrossRef CAS .
J. Snyder , T. Fujita , M. W. Chen and J. Erlebacher , Nat. Mater., 2010, 9 , 904 —907 CrossRef CAS .
S. Guo , S. Dong and E. Wang , Energy Environ. Sci., 2010, 3 , 1307 —1310 RSC .
Z. W. Chen , M. Waje , W. Z. Li and Y. S. Yan , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2007, 46 , 4060 —4063 CrossRef CAS .
S. H. Sun , F. Jaouen and J. P. Dodelet , Adv. Mater., 2008, 20 , 3900 CrossRef CAS .
C. Koenigsmann and S. S. Wong , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 1161 —1176 RSC .
S. H. Sun , D. Q. Yang , D. Villers , G. X. Zhang , E. Sacher and J. P. Dodelet , Adv. Mater., 2008, 20 , 571 CrossRef CAS .
B. Lim and Y. Xia , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2011, 50 , 76 —85 CrossRef CAS .
C. Wang , H. Daimon , T. Onodera , T. Koda and S. H. Sun , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2008, 47 , 3588 —3591 CrossRef CAS .
W. Yang , X. L. Wang , F. Yang , C. Yang and X. R. Yang , Adv. Mater., 2008, 20 , 2579 CrossRef CAS .
Y. J. Kang and C. B. Murray , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 7568 CrossRef CAS .
J. Zhang , H. Z. Yang , J. Y. Fang and S. Z. Zou , Nano Lett., 2010, 10 , 638 —644 CrossRef CAS .
T. Yu , D. Y. Kim , H. Zhang and Y. N. Xia , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2011, 50 , 2773 —2777 CrossRef CAS .
J. B. Wu , J. L. Zhang , Z. M. Peng , S. C. Yang , F. T. Wagner and H. Yang , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 4984 CrossRef CAS .
C. Wang , H. Daimon , Y. Lee , J. Kim and S. Sun , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2007, 129 , 6974 CrossRef CAS .
C. M. Sanchez-Sanchez , J. Solla-Gullon , F. J. Vidal-Iglesias , A. Aldaz , V. Montiel and E. Herrero , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 5622 CrossRef CAS .
B. Lim , T. Yu and Y. Xia , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49 , 9819 —9820 CrossRef CAS .
M. Lefevre , E. Proietti , F. Jaouen and J. P. Dodelet , Science, 2009, 324 , 71 —74 CrossRef CAS .
J. L. Fernandez , V. Raghuveer , A. Manthiram and A. J. Bard , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 13100 —13101 CrossRef CAS .
V. Raghuveer , A. Manthiram and A. J. Bard , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109 , 22909 —22912 CrossRef CAS .
A. Sarkar , A. V. Murugan and A. Manthiram , J. Mater. Chem., 2009, 19 , 159 —165 RSC .
M. H. Shao , K. Sasaki and R. R. Adzic , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128 , 3526 —3527 CrossRef CAS .
Y. G. Suo , L. Zhuang and J. T. Lu , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2007, 46 , 2862 —2864 CrossRef CAS .
L. F. Cheng , Z. H. Zhang , W. X. Niu , G. B. Xu and L. D. Zhu , J. Power Sources, 2008, 182 , 91 —94 CrossRef CAS .
X. W. Li , Q. H. Huang , Z. Q. Zou , B. J. Xia and H. Yang , Electrochim. Acta, 2008, 53 , 6662 —6667 CrossRef CAS .
V. Raghuveer , P. J. Ferreira and A. Manthiram , Electrochem. Commun., 2006, 8 , 807 —814 CrossRef CAS .
W. M. Wang , D. Zheng , C. Du , Z. Q. Zou , X. G. Zhang , B. J. Xia , H. Yang and D. L. Akins , J. Power Sources, 2007, 167 , 243 —249 CrossRef CAS .
X. P. Wang , N. Kariuki , J. T. Vaughey , J. Goodpaster , R. Kumar and D. J. Myers , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2008, 155 , B602 —B609 CrossRef CAS .
J. L. Fernández , D. A. Walsh and A. J. Bard , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 357 —365 CrossRef CAS .
F. Fouda-Onana , S. Bah and O. Savadogo , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2009, 636 , 1 —9 CrossRef CAS .
F. Fouda-Onana and O. Savadogo , Electrochim. Acta, 2009, 54 , 1769 —1776 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Y. Zhang , K. L. More , K. Sun , Z. L. Wu and W. Z. Li , Chem. Mater., 2011, 23 , 1570 —1577 CrossRef CAS .
H. Q. Li , G. Q. Sun , N. Li , S. G. Sun , D. S. Su and Q. Xin , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2007, 111 , 5605 —5617 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Wang and P. B. Balbuena , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109 , 18902 —18906 CrossRef CAS .
K. Lee , O. Savadogo , A. Ishihara , S. Mitsushima , N. Kamiya and K. Ota , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2006, 153 , A20 —A24 CrossRef CAS .
M. Shao , P. Liu , J. Zhang and R. Adzic , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2007, 111 , 6772 —6775 CrossRef CAS .
T. H. Yu , Y. Sha , B. V. Merinov and W. A. Goddard , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 11527 —11533 CrossRef CAS .
M. H. Shao , T. Huang , P. Liu , J. Zhang , K. Sasaki , M. B. Vukmirovic and R. R. Adzic , Langmuir, 2006, 22 , 10409 —10415 CrossRef CAS .
N. Alonso-Vante , P. Bogdanoff and H. Tributsch , J. Catal., 2000, 190 , 240 —246 CrossRef CAS .
T. J. Schmidt , U. A. Paulus , H. A. Gasteiger , N. Alonso-Vante and R. J. Behm , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2000, 147 , 2620 —2624 CrossRef CAS .
O. Solorza-Feria , K. Ellmer , M. Giersig and N. Alonso-Vante , Electrochim. Acta, 1994, 39 , 1647 —1653 CrossRef CAS .
M. Bron , P. Bogdanoff , S. Fiechter , M. Hilgendorff , J. Radnik , I. Dorbandt , H. Schulenburg and H. Tributsch , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2001, 517 , 85 —94 CrossRef CAS .
V. I. Zaikovskii , K. S. Nagabhushana , V. V. Kriventsov , K. N. Loponov , S. V. Cherepanova , R. I. Kvon , H. Bonnemann , D. I. Kochubey and E. R. Savinova , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2006, 110 , 6881 —6890 CrossRef CAS .
G. Zehl , G. Schmithals , A. Hoell , S. Haas , C. Hartnig , I. Dorbandt , P. Bogdanoff and S. Fiechter , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2007, 46 , 7311 —7314 CrossRef CAS .
A. Lewera , J. Inukai , W. P. Zhou , D. Cao , H. T. Duong , N. Alonso-Vante and A. Wieckowski , Electrochim. Acta, 2007, 52 , 5759 —5765 CrossRef CAS .
M. Hilgendorff , K. Diesner , H. Schulenburg , P. Bogdanoff , M. Bron and S. Fiechter , J. New Mater. Electrochem. Syst., 2002, 5 , 71 —81 CrossRef CAS .
K. N. Loponov , V. V. Kriventsov , K. S. Nagabhushana , H. Boennemann , D. I. Kochubey and E. R. Savinova , Catal. Today, 2009, 147 , 260 —269 CrossRef CAS .
K. S. Nagabhushana , E. Dinjus , H. Bonnemann , V. Zaikovskii , C. Hartnig , G. Zehl , I. Dorbandt , S. Fiechter and P. Bogdanoff , J. Appl. Electrochem., 2007, 37 , 1515 —1522 CrossRef CAS .
A. Garsuch , X. Michaud , G. Wagner , O. Klepel and J. R. Dahn , Electrochim. Acta, 2009, 54 , 1350 —1354 CrossRef CAS .
C. W. B. Bezerra , L. Zhang , K. Lee , H. Liu , A. L. B. Marques , E. P. Marques , H. Wang and J. Zhang , Electrochim. Acta, 2008, 53 , 4937 —4951 CrossRef CAS .
F. Jaouen , E. Proietti , M. Lefevre , R. Chenitz , J.-P. Dodelet , G. Wu , H. T. Chung , C. M. Johnston and P. Zelenay , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 114 RSC .
B. Wang J. Power Sources, 2005, 152 , 1 —15 CrossRef CAS .
R. Borup , J. Meyers , B. Pivovar , Y. S. Kim , R. Mukundan , N. Garland , D. Myers , M. Wilson , F. Garzon , D. Wood , P. Zelenay , K. More , K. Stroh , T. Zawodzinski , J. Boncella , J. E. McGrath , M. Inaba , K. Miyatake , M. Hori , K. Ota , Z. Ogumi , S. Miyata , A. Nishikata , Z. Siroma , Y. Uchimoto , K. Yasuda , K. I. Kimijima and N. Iwashita , Chem. Rev., 2007, 107 , 3904 —3951 CrossRef CAS .
R. Bashyam and P. Zelenay , Nature, 2006, 443 , 63 —66 CrossRef CAS .
H. Schulenburg , S. Stankov , V. Schunemann , J. Radnik , I. Dorbandt , S. Fiechter , P. Bogdanoff and H. Tributsch , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2003, 107 , 9034 —9041 CrossRef CAS .
M. Lefèvre and J.-P. Dodelet , Electrochim. Acta, 2003, 48 , 2749 —2760 CrossRef CAS .
P. H. Matter , E. Wang , M. Arias , E. J. Biddinger and U. S. Ozkan , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2006, 110 , 18374 —18384 CrossRef CAS .
G. Wu , K. L. More , C. M. Johnston and P. Zelenay , Science, 2011, 332 , 443 —447 CrossRef CAS .
F. Jaouen and J.-P. Dodelet , Electrochim. Acta, 2007, 52 , 5975 —5984 CrossRef CAS .
G. Gruenig , K. Wiesener , S. Gamburzev , I. Iliev and A. Kaisheva , J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem., 1983, 159 , 155 —162 CrossRef CAS .
K. Wiesener Electrochim. Acta, 1986, 31 , 1073 —1078 CrossRef CAS .
E. Yeager Electrochim. Acta, 1984, 29 , 1527 —1537 CrossRef CAS .
N. P. Subramanian , X. Li , V. Nallathambi , S. P. Kumaraguru , H. Colon-Mercado , G. Wu , J.-W. Lee and B. N. Popov , J. Power Sources, 2009, 188 , 38 —44 CrossRef CAS .
J. F. Wu , X. Z. Yuan , J. J. Martin , H. J. Wang , J. J. Zhang , J. Shen , S. H. Wu and W. Merida , J. Power Sources, 2008, 184 , 104 —119 CrossRef CAS .
P. J. Ferreira , G. J. la O , Y. Shao-Horn , D. Morgan , R. Makharia , S. Kocha and H. A. Gasteiger , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2005, 152 , A2256 —A2271 CrossRef CAS .
K. Yasuda , A. Taniguchi , T. Akita , T. Ioroi and Z. Siroma , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8 , 746 —752 RSC .
E. Guilminot , A. Corcella , M. Chatenet , F. Maillard , F. Charlot , G. Berthome , C. Iojoiu , J. Y. Sanchez , E. Rossinot and E. Claude , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2007, 154 , B1106 —B1114 CrossRef CAS .
X. P. Wang , R. Kumar and D. J. Myers , Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., 2006, 9 , A225 —A227 CrossRef CAS .
V. A. T. Dam and F. A. de Bruijn , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2007, 154 , B494 —B499 CrossRef CAS .
W. M. Chen , G. Q. Sun , J. S. Guo , X. S. Zhao , S. Y. Yan , J. Tian , S. H. Tang , Z. H. Zhou and Q. Xin , Electrochim. Acta, 2006, 51 , 2391 —2399 CrossRef CAS .
Z. B. Wang , Y. Y. Shao , P. J. Zuo , X. P. Wang and G. P. Yin , J. Power Sources, 2008, 185 , 1066 —1072 CrossRef CAS .
L. Tang , B. Han , K. Persson , C. Friesen , T. He , K. Sieradzki and G. Ceder , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 596 —600 CrossRef CAS .
R. L. Borup , J. R. Davey , F. H. Garzon , D. L. Wood and M. A. Inbody , J. Power Sources, 2006, 163 , 76 —81 CrossRef CAS .
R. Jinnouchi , E. Toyoda , T. Hatanaka and Y. Morimoto , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 17557 —17568 CrossRef CAS .
S. Y. Huang , P. Ganesan , S. Park and B. N. Popov , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 13898 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Zhai , H. Zhang , D. Xing and Z.-G. Shao , J. Power Sources, 2007, 164 , 126 —133 CrossRef CAS .
E. Antolini , J. R. C. Salgado and E. R. Gonzalez , J. Power Sources, 2006, 160 , 957 —968 CrossRef CAS .
S. H. Sun , G. X. Zhang , D. S. Geng , Y. G. Chen , R. Y. Li , M. Cai and X. L. Sun , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2011, 50 , 422 —426 CrossRef CAS .
H. W. Liang , X. A. Cao , F. Zhou , C. H. Cui , W. J. Zhang and S. H. Yu , Adv. Mater., 2011, 23 , 1467 —1471 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Shimazaki , S. Hayasaka , T. Koyama , D. Nagao , Y. Kobayashi and M. Konno , J. Colloid Interface Sci., 2010, 351 , 580 —583 CrossRef CAS .
S. H. Joo , J. Y. Park , C. K. Tsung , Y. Yamada , P. D. Yang and G. A. Somorjai , Nat. Mater., 2008, 8 , 126 —131 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Q. Dai , B. Lim , Y. Yang , C. M. Cobley , W. Y. Li , E. C. Cho , B. Grayson , P. T. Fanson , C. T. Campbell , Y. M. Sun and Y. N. Xia , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49 , 8165 —8168 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Z. Jiang , Z. B. Wang , Y. Y. Chu , D. M. Gu and G. P. Yin , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 728 —735 RSC .
Y. Y. Shao , G. P. Yin and Y. Z. Gao , J. Power Sources, 2007, 171 , 558 —566 CrossRef CAS .
L. Li and Y. C. Xing , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2006, 153 , A1823 —A1828 CrossRef CAS .
C. A. Reiser , L. Bregoli , T. W. Patterson , J. S. Yi , J. D. L. Yang , M. L. Perry and T. D. Jarvi , Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., 2005, 8 , A273 —A276 CrossRef CAS .
T. W. Patterson and R. M. Darling , Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., 2006, 9 , A183 —A185 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Y. Shao , G. P. Yin , J. Zhang and Y. Z. Gao , Electrochim. Acta, 2006, 51 , 5853 —5857 CrossRef CAS .
F. Coloma , A. Sepulvedaescribano and F. Rodriguezreinoso , J. Catal., 1995, 154 , 299 —305 CrossRef CAS .
F. Coloma , A. Sepulvedaescribano , J. L. G. Fierro and F. Rodriguezreinoso , Langmuir, 1994, 10 , 750 —755 CrossRef CAS .
J. B. Joo , N. D. Kim , H. J. Yun , P. Kim and J. Yi , Nano Res., 2010, 4 , 92 —102 CrossRef CAS .
K. Hartl , M. Hanzlik and M. Arenz , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 234 —238 RSC .
Y. K. Zhou , K. Neyerlin , T. S. Olson , S. Pylypenko , J. Bult , H. N. Dinh , T. Gennett , Z. P. Shao and R. O'Hayre , Energy Environ. Sci., 2010, 3 , 1437 —1446 RSC .
Y. Ma , S. Jiang , G. Jian , H. Tao , L. Yu , X. Wang , X. Wang , J. Zhu , Z. Hu and Y. Chen , Energy Environ. Sci., 2009, 2 , 224 —229 RSC .
Y. G. Chen , J. J. Wang , H. Liu , M. N. Banis , R. Y. Li , X. L. Sun , T. K. Sham , S. Y. Ye and S. Knights , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115 , 3769 —3776 CrossRef CAS .
R. L. Liu , D. Q. Wu , X. L. Feng and K. Mullen , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49 , 2565 —2569 CrossRef CAS .
K. P. Gong , F. Du , Z. H. Xia , M. Durstock and L. M. Dai , Science, 2009, 323 , 760 —764 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Y. Shao , J. Liu , Y. Wang and Y. H. Lin , J. Mater. Chem., 2009, 19 , 46 —59 RSC .
E. Antolini Appl. Catal., B, 2009, 88 , 1 —24 CrossRef CAS .
L. Zhang , L. Y. Wang , C. M. B. Holt , T. Navessin , K. Malek , M. H. Eikerling and D. Mitlin , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 16463 —16474 CrossRef CAS .
X. A. Lu , J. P. Hu , J. S. Foord and Q. A. Wang , J. Electroanal. Chem., 2011, 654 , 38 —43 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Y. Song , Z. D. Gao and P. Schmuki , Electrochem. Commun., 2011, 13 , 290 —293 CrossRef CAS .
C. V. Subban , Q. Zhou , A. Hu , T. E. Moylan , F. T. Wagner and F. J. DiSalvo , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 17531 —17536 CrossRef CAS .
D. Wang , C. V. Subban , H. Wang , E. Rus , F. J. DiSalvo and H. D. Abruña , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 10218 —10220 CrossRef CAS .
R. Kou , Y. Y. Shao , D. H. Mei , Z. M. Nie , D. H. Wang , C. M. Wang , V. V. Viswanathan , S. Park , I. A. Aksay , Y. H. Lin , Y. Wang and J. Liu , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2011, 133 , 2541 —2547 CrossRef CAS .
L. Gancs , B. N. Hult , N. Hakim and S. Mukerjee , Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., 2007, 10 , B150 —B154 CrossRef CAS .
M. K. Jeon , J. Y. Won , K. S. Oh , K. R. Lee and S. I. Woo , Electrochim. Acta, 2007, 53 , 447 —452 CrossRef CAS .
Y. S. Chung , C. Pak , G. S. Park , W. S. Jeon , J. R. Kim , Y. Lee , H. Chang and D. Seung , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2008, 112 , 313 —318 CrossRef CAS .
W. M. Chen , G. Q. Sun , Z. X. Liang , Q. Mao , H. Q. Li , G. X. Wang , Q. Xin , H. Chang , C. H. Pak and D. Y. Seung , J. Power Sources, 2006, 160 , 933 —939 CrossRef CAS .
M. K. Jeon , K. R. Lee , K. S. Oh , D. S. Hong , J. Y. Won , S. Li and S. I. Woo , J. Power Sources, 2006, 158 , 1344 —1347 CrossRef CAS .
P. Piela , C. Eickes , E. Brosha , F. Garzon and P. Zelenay , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2004, 151 , A2053 —A2059 CrossRef CAS .
W. L. Xu , T. H. Lu , C. P. Liu and W. Xing , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109 , 14325 —14330 CrossRef CAS .
X. Z. Xue , C. P. Liu , W. Xing and T. H. Lu , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2006, 153 , E79 —E84 CrossRef CAS .
A. Taniguchi , T. Akita , K. Yasuda and Y. Miyazaki , J. Power Sources, 2004, 130 , 42 —49 CrossRef CAS .
T. T. H. Cheng , N. Y. Jia and P. He , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2010, 157 , B714 —B718 CrossRef CAS .
C. M. Lai , J. C. Lin , K. L. Hsueh , C. P. Hwang , K. C. Tsay , L. D. Tsai and Y. M. Peng , J. Electrochem. Soc., 2008, 155 , B843 —B851 CrossRef CAS .
J. Y. Park , M. A. Scibioh , S. K. Kim , H. J. Kim , I. H. Oh , T. G. Lee and H. Y. Ha , Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2009, 34 , 2043 —2051 CrossRef CAS .
Z. X. Liang , T. S. Zhao and J. B. Xu , J. Power Sources, 2008, 185 , 166 —170 CrossRef CAS .
J. A. Tian , G. Q. Sun , L. H. Jiang , S. Y. Yan , Q. Mao and Q. Xin , Electrochem. Commun., 2007, 9 , 563 —568 CrossRef CAS .
T. Saida , N. Ogiwara , Y. Takasu and W. Sugimoto , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 13390 —13396 CrossRef CAS .
C. M. Zhou , F. Peng , H. J. Wang , H. Yu , C. Peng and J. A. Yang , Electrochem. Commun., 2010, 12 , 1210 —1213 CrossRef CAS .
P. Liu , G. P. Yin and K. D. Cai , Electrochim. Acta, 2009, 54 , 6178 —6183 CrossRef CAS .
W. L. Xu , T. H. Lu , C. P. Liu and W. Xing , Electrochim. Acta, 2005, 50 , 3280 —3285 CrossRef CAS .
Y. W. Zhang , J. J. Ge , Z. M. Cui , C. P. Liu , W. Xing , J. J. Zhang , H. D. Lin and H. Na , Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2010, 35 , 8337 —8342 CrossRef CAS .
Z. M. Cui , N. W. Li , X. C. Zhou , C. P. Liu , J. H. Liao , S. B. Zhang and W. Xing , J. Power Sources, 2007, 173 , 162 —165 CrossRef CAS .
Z. M. Cui , C. P. Liu , T. H. Lu and W. Xing , J. Power Sources, 2007, 167 , 94 —99 CrossRef CAS .
Y. W. Zhang , Z. M. Cui , C. P. Liu , W. Xing and J. J. Zhang , J. Power Sources, 2009, 194 , 730 —736 CrossRef CAS .
W. L. Xu , C. P. Liu , X. Z. Xue , Y. Su , Y. Lv , W. Xing and T. H. Lu , Solid State Ionics, 2004, 171 , 121 —127 CrossRef CAS .
N. W. Deluca and Y. A. Elabd , J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys., 2006, 44 , 2201 —2225 CrossRef CAS .
L. Li , F. Shang , L. Wang , S. Pei and Y. Zhang , Energy Environ. Sci., 2010, 3 , 114 —116 RSC .
L. G. Feng , J. Zhang , W. W. Cai , Liangliang , W. Xing and C. P. Liu , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 2750 —2753 CrossRef CAS .
W. W. Cai , S. T. Li , L. G. Feng , J. Zhang , D. T. Song , W. Xing and C. P. Liu , J. Power Sources, 2011, 196 , 3781 —3789 CrossRef CAS .
F. Zenith and U. Krewer , Energy Environ. Sci., 2011, 4 , 519 —527 RSC .
S. Tominaka , H. Obata and T. Osaka , Energy Environ. Sci., 2009, 2 , 845 —848 RSC .
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011