Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 190q3 
23, 237-242 
237 
Use of Catalyst Coke Content in Deactivation Modeling 
In-Slk Nam’ and J
.
 R. K H t d  
Department of Chemical Engineering, UnlversHy of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 0 1003 
A model is presented which provides a relationship between catalyst activity and catalyst coke content, based 
upon the formation of both monolayer and multilayer coke. The model adequately fits experimental data which 
previously had required three separate emplrlcal activity-coke deactivation models, based upon linear, exponential, 
or hyperbolic equation forms. In 
addition, it exhibits the 
proper functional form to describe typical coke-time data, 
such as that represented by the Voorhies relatlonshlp. The model is capable of describing observed temperature 
dependencies of coke-Initiated deactivation. 
Deactivation of a solid catalyst by a coking mechanism 
is often extremely complex, because coke precursors can 
arise from reactant molecules, product molecules, reactive 
intermediates, and combinations thereof. Most mecha- 
nistic models of catalyst deactivation employ Langmuir 
isotherm theory in their derivation, leading either to the 
classical hyperbolic Hougen-Watson models or to power 
function models (for sparsely covered surfaces). Since the 
Langmuir isotherm presumes monolayer surface coverage 
and since coke accumulation often far exceeds that asso- 
ciated with monolayer coverage (reaching levels of 5 to 20 
wt %), modeling of coke-related deactivation is often un- 
dertaken using empirical relationships between catalyst 
activity and catalyst coke content. 
A number of empirical models have been proposed to 
relate catalyst activity to catalyst coke content, both for 
experimental data interpretation and for reactor design. 
For example, Anderson and Whitehouse (1961) proposed 
several empirical functional forms which could be used to 
relate catalyst activity to catalyst coke content. Froment 
and Bischoff (1961,1962) 
applied such equations in reador 
studies involving deactivating catalysts. 
Experimentally, Ozawa and Bischoff (1968a, 1968b) 
found that a l
i
n
e
a
r
 
relationship of activity and coke content 
satisfactorily represented deactivation data, with an em- 
pirical constant which exhibited an exponential tempera- 
ture dependence. Takeuch et al. (1966) observed that an 
empirical hyperbolic model form was required to relate 
activity to catalyst coke levels. The empirical parameter 
in this model exhibited a dependence not only upon the 
reaction temperature but also upon the composition of the 
reactor feed. Dumez and Froment (1976) found that an 
empirical 
exponential relationship w
a
s
 
required to describe 
their catalyst activity-coke content data, with an empirical 
parameter which did not exhibit systematic trends with 
either temperature or feed composition. Cooper and 
T
r
i
”
 
(1980) observed a hyperbolic relationship 
for coking 
deactivation during catalytic reforming of certain model 
compounds, but required an exponential relationship for 
others. Under some conditions the empirical parameters 
exhibited a temperature dependence, while with other 
conditions the parameters were invarient with tempera- 
ture. Clearly, the use of such empirical relationships, 
although sometimes 
necessary to corrlate raw experimental 
data, have not provided a universally satisfying approach 
to deactivation modeling. 
Froment (1976) has advocated the empirical activity- 
coke relationship as a superior approach to empirical ac- 
* 
Laboratorium voor Petrochemische Techniek, Rijksuniver- 
siteit, Gent, Belgium. 
KSE, Inc., Amherst, MA 01004. 
tivity-time or coke-time relationships, such as 
the Voorhies 
correlation (Voorhies, 1945). Nevertheless, many inves- 
tigators have successfully modeled coke-induced deacti- 
vation, using time-dependent kinetic equations (Ruder- 
shausen and Watson, 1954; Krishnaswamy and Kittrell, 
1978,1979; 
and Butt and Rohan, 1968, 
to name only a few 
studies). These approaches are fundamentally different 
from the empirical time-dependent relationships appro- 
priately criticized by Froment. Indeed, by consideration 
of appropriate time-dependent rate equations such as 
used 
by the above investigators, an implicit activity-coke rela- 
tionship is derivable (Reiff and Kittrell, 1980). This ap- 
proach can thus be functionally equivalent to the use of 
empirical activity-coke relationships. Furthermore, the 
time-dependent kinetic approach exhibits advantages of 
permitting consideration of simultaneous deactivation 
mechanisms (e.g., basic nitrogen titration simultaneous 
with coking) and the formulation of mechanistic coke 
formation kinetics (Romero et al., 1981). 
Nevertheless, use of the activity-coke relationship also 
offers many advantages. It provides additional insight into 
the deactivation mechanism, through the inclusion of 
microbalance data and coke-bed profile data. It permits 
the collection of many elements of a very complex mech- 
anistic procesa into simple overall equations. Furthermore, 
the activity-coke content correlations thereby developed 
are of direct practical use. The relationship permits pre- 
diction of total coke content for reactor design and catalyst 
regeneration studies, and provides a basis for interpreting 
data from on-line catalyst samplers. In the latter case, 
measurements of catalyst coke content during a com- 
mercial run can provide inferences about remaining cata- 
lyst activity and r
u
n
 
length before regeneration is required. 
For the activity-coke 
relationships 
to gain wide use, with 
confidence in their practical applicability, 
a more complete 
theoretical description is required which places the dis- 
parate experimental observations summarized earlier into 
a d i e d  
perspective. An important approach to this effort 
has been outlined by Beeckman and Froment (1980), 
em- 
ploying arguments based upon a pore blockage mechanism. 
They found that, for certain parameter values, this theory 
provides a generally exponential relationship between 
catalyst activity and catalyst coke content. Considering 
the high levels of coke often observed on fully deactivated 
catalysts, this mechanism has strong intuitive appeal. 
In the present work, an alternative approach is suggested 
which provides a simpler perspective on activity-coke 
relationships for high levels of coke associated with mul- 
tilayer coverage of a catalyst surface during coke-induced 
deactivation. The derivation provides a single functional 
relationship capable of describing the empirically observed 
0198-4305/84/1123-0237$01.50/0 
0 1984 American Chemical Society 
238 
exponential, 
hyperbolic, and linear relationships. The final 
equation contains ratios of rate constants which, depending 
upon their respective activation energies, 
can accommodate 
all observed temperatures dependencies. Of course, the 
price to be paid for this simplicity is the elimination of the 
pore blockage mechanism, which will certainly be impor- 
tant for some reacting systems. 
Theoretical Development 
In describing the deactivation process due to coking, it 
is common to assume there are two independent reactions 
occurring, the primary reaction of A @ B and the coking 
reaction. If S represents an active site and the feed par- 
ticipates in the coking reaction in parallel kinetics, these 
can be represented schematically as 
A + S = B + S  
(1) 
A + S - 
coke 
(2) 
Following the development of Froment (1976), these 
overall reactions can be written in terms of presumed in- 
dividual reaction steps 
A + S = A S  
(3) 
AS + 
BS 
(4) 
B S = B + S  
(5) 
AS - 
coke 
(6) 
Assuming the surface reaction is controlling, 
the overall 
Ind. 
Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev., Vol, 23, No. 2, 1984 
reaction rate becomes 
~ K A C S O ~ P A  
- 
PB/K) 
r =  
(7) 
To derive this, the total number of active sites is distrib- 
uted among vacant sites, sites covered by adsorbed A or 
B, and sites inactivated by coke coverage 
CSO = C
S
 + CAS + C
B
S
 + CCS 
(8) 
and activity is defined in terms of sites not inactivated by 
coke 
1 + KAPA + KBPB 
cso - 
ccs 
c
s
o
 
a =  
(9) 
Now, a rate of formation of coke is desired, which is 
assumed to be proportional to the surface concentration 
of the coke precursor. For a batch solids reactor, the coke 
concentration, Cc, at the site is 
The parameter pc is used to represent the stoichiometric 
coefficient converting the weight of coke at the surface to 
the number of sites inactivated, Ccs = pCCc. From the 
pseudo-equilibrium assumption for eq 3 
By substitution of eq 8 and 9 
Note that the definition of activity, eq 9, can be differ- 
entiated and combined with eq 12 to provide 
Equation 13 
is equivalent to that which would be derived 
using active site balances (Reiff and Kittrell, 1980). 
In general, eq 7 and 13, when combined with the mass 
balance for the reactant A, can be solved simultaneously 
to describe the deactivating reactor performance. For the 
special case of a differential reactor, or a thermobalance, 
the partial pressure terms in eq 13 
are constant, and se- 
quential integration is possible 
In a = -yt 
(14) 
where 
Froment (1976) has reported similar activity-time rela- 
tionships, and Romero et al. (1981) have successfully 
used 
direct time-dependent equations analogous 
to 
eq 7,14, and 
15 to describe the behavior of deactivating catalytic sys- 
tems. 
However, it is desired to develop a relationship between 
catalyst activity, a, 
and total catalyst coke content. The 
activity definition of eq 9 implies one such relationship, 
being of linear form. However, such a linear form is not 
in agreement with much experimental coke data (Froment, 
1980). Indeed, the monolayer assumption associated with 
eq 7 and 8 for Cc, is unlikely to be valid for catalyst coke 
contents from 5 to 20 wt %. However, it is not surprising 
that equations such as eq 13, 14, and 15 have been suc- 
cessfully employed; they are equivalent to balances on the 
active sites, and these active sites probably follow the 
monolayer Langmuir behavior if the primary reaction rate 
is describable by the Hougen-Watson form of eq 7. 
To utilize the above Froment theory, then, it appears 
that the term Cc must be attributed to a subset of the t
o
t
a
l
 
catalyst coke, that which is in direct proximity to the 
catalyst surface and which directly occupies catalytic sites 
which would otherwise be active (eq 8). The balance of 
the total measured catalyst coke is described as 
multilayer 
coke. It can be envisioned to grow either on top of the 
monolayer coke at an activated point, by an Eley-Rideal 
mechanism, or below a metallic site in a growing filament. 
The multilayer coke is expected to be formed at a rate 
proportional 
to the monolayer coke initiator and the partial 
pressure of the coke precursor, here assumed to be the 
reactant 
(16) 
Note that the multilayer coke does not, in itself, inactivate 
active sites, and cannot form if either reactant is un- 
available (Cc or PA). This could be envisioned to be as- 
sociated with the growth of filamentaceous coke, for ex- 
ample, in which the addition of multilayer coke to an 
activated growth point does not, in itself, inactivate the 
catalyst. 
The measured total coke content of the catalyst, then, 
becomes 
q = cc + C
L
 
(17) 
and the rate of total coke formation is, from eq 9, 12, 16 
and 17 
kLCso(1 - 
_ -  
~DKACSOPA~ + 
a4 
at 
(1 + KAPA 
+ KBPB)P, 
Pc 
(18) 
As we desire a relationship between catalyst activity and 
total coke content, the division of eq 13 by eq 18 yields 
(19) 
-&DKA~ 
k&ACsoa + kLCso(1 - 
a)(l + KAPA 
+ KBPB) 
- 
- 
aa 
_ -  
Ind. 
Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev., Vol. 23, 
No. 
2, 1984 
239 
PRESSURE 
EYP 
MULTILAYER 
( D m 1  
OAT4 COKE MODEL 
- 
HYPERBOLIC MODEL 
01 
- 
LINEAR MODEL 
I 
0
1
 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
CATALYST COKE CONTENT (mg 
of coke/gm of Cot) 
Figure 1. Linear relationship of catalyst activity to coke content. 
Note that the reactant partial pressure term associated 
with the parallel deactivation has cancelled from eq 19. 
Hence, had series coke formation been assumed, v
i
z
.
 
with 
a PB 
proportionality, the same coke-activity equation is 
obtained. Even for the simultaneous deactivation mech- 
anism associated with both reactant and product fouling, 
the resulting expression is in the same form of eq 19 but 
with different parameters. As expected, the relation be- 
tween coke content and activity is unchanged (without 
regard to the origin of the coke), and only the coke-bed 
length relationship is altered. 
Equation 19 can be integrated, for a differential reactor, 
a point in an integral reactor, 
or a thermobalance (constant 
Pi), 
to yield 
(20) 
where 
q = al(l 
- 
a) - 
cy2 In a 
cso 
f f 1 = - -  
ff2 
Pc 
(21) 
Various trial applications of eq 20 and 21 suggest that the 
partial pressure dependence of eq 21 is quite weak over 
practical variations of the experimental variables. How- 
ever, alternative problem formulations to eq 3 through 6 
for hydrocracking or reforming systems can produce a 
potentially important dependence upon hydrogen partial 
pressure. 
Note that a2 
may exhibit an Arrhenius temperature 
dependence, either for a sparsely covered surface or a low 
heat of adsorption. The temperature dependence of a2 
can 
be positive, negative, or zero, depending upon the relative 
sizes of the activation energies and the heats of adsorption. 
Application to Deactivation Data 
The coke deactivation equation of eq 20 was found to 
describe the classical data represented by a linear depen- 
dence (Ozawa and Bischoff, 1968b), an exponential de- 
kLCso(1 + KAPA 
+ KBPB) 
ffp = 
Pck&A 
0 EXPERIMENTAL D4Tb 
MULTILAYER COKE MODEL 
- 
EXPONENTi4L MODEL 
0 6 -  
0 
01)- 
? 
u 
04- 
0 3 -  
02- 
0
4
 - 
0 
1 
, 
L 
0 
t o  
20 
30 
40 
SO 
6
C
 
CATALYST COKE CONTENT ImQ 
Of cokelgm Of Cot) 
Figure 2. Exponential relationship of catalyst activity to coke 
content. 
0 SI- 
I 
0 3 t  
I 
240 
Ind. 
Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev., Vol. 23, 
No. 2, 1984 
1
0
 . 
1 
I 
1 
I 
1 
0
-
 1 2  
13 
14 
15 
16 
RECIPROCAL ABSOLUTE TEMPERATURE ( O K - '  x jO*) 
Figure 
4. Arrhenius behavior of deactivation parameter for linear 
data. 
shows excellent agreement. Hence, the single model of eq 
20, based upon multilayer coke kinetics, provides an sat- 
isfactory representation of all these data, equal to that 
offered by fitting each of three different empirical models 
to each data set. 
For the linear representation of Figure 1, the agreement 
of eq 20 with the data cannot be obtained using the a1 
estimate with a2 
= 0. Instead, for these data, the linearity 
appears to be associated with the high activity and low 
catalyst coke levels (compare coke levels of Figures 1, 2, 
and 3). The fit of eq 20 is equivalent to a Taylor expansion 
of eq 20, evaluated at the average of the catalyst activity 
at start-of-run and end-of-run 
where 
Ozawa and Bischoff found their data to be well correlated 
a = l - p q  
(24) 
where p was an empirical parameter exhibiting a positive 
Arrhenius dependence. From the model of eq 20, then 
by 
As shown in Figure 4, 
the slope from eq 25, using the 
parameter values of a1 
and a2 
fitted in Figure 1, does 
exhibit an Arrhenius temperature dependence. From an 
evaluation of the parameters of eq 25, this appears to occur 
because of compensating contributions of both terms in 
the denominator of eq 25. 
For the data of Figure 2, the exponential model form, 
the parameter estimates of eq 20 show that the a2 
term 
dominates the al 
term, equivalent to a dominance of 
multilayer coke coverage in eq 19. The lack of a systematic 
trend of a2 
with temperature would simply indicate an 
equivalence 
of the activation energies 
in eq 21. Sufficiently 
detailed data were not reported by Dumez and Froment 
(1976) to permit a more thorough investigation of the 
temperature dependence of these parameters. 
Dumez and Froment (1976) reported that both butene 
(reactant) and butadiene (product) contributed to catalyst 
deactivation. In our derivation of eq 10 and 16, only 
reactant deactivation was considered. However, it was 
noted below eq 19 that the functional relationship between 
coke and activity is unchanged by product or combined 
feed and product deactivation. 
The intermediate coke content data, represented by a 
hyperbolic model, are also well fit by eq 20, in Figure 3. 
In thise case, both al 
and a2 
were found to be important. 
Presumably, a series expansion of the logarithmic term of 
eq 20 will account for the ability of eq 20 to describe data 
exhibiting the typical hyperbolic form. No attempt was 
made to correlate the feed composition and temperature 
effects reported by Takeuch et al. (1966), as these data 
were incomplete. Partial pressure effects, in particular, 
would be expected to be described by modifications of eq 
12 and 16. 
Discussion 
Rudershausen and Watson (1954) found that the coking 
rate is proportional to reactant partial pressure and in- 
versely proportional to catalyst coke content. Although 
we have not analyzed their data, the activity in eq 12 will 
diminish with increasing coke levels, through eq 20. 
Therefore, the present theory is qualitatively compatible 
with their observations. Furthermore, the result of Ru- 
dershausen and Watson is but a special case of the hy- 
perbolic model form, already shown herein to be described 
by the model of eq 20. 
Cooper and Trimm (1980) have found that both em- 
pirical exponential and hyperbolic model forms were re- 
quired to describe coking deactivation data, with differ- 
ences in the model forms being attributed to either fast 
or slow coking feed constituents. The results described 
herein suggest that these differences may also be attrib- 
utable to the extent of deactivation or the extent of coking 
in specific experiments, as 
such factors influence the rel- 
ative importance of the terms in eq 20. Of course, in the 
case of Copper and Trimm, the role of the dual site 
functionality for their catalytic reforming catalyst could 
also be influential. However, by advancing from purely 
empirical representations to interpretations such as 
offered 
by eq 20 and improvements thereof, it would be hoped that 
a unified approach to deactivation modeling would evolve. 
Note also that the format of eq 3 through 6 
is only one 
of several surface models which could be contemplated and 
is not intended to be exclusionary. For example, we believe 
consideration 
of a coke precursor, such as 
cyclopentadiene, 
is necessary to describe experimental observations in 
catalytic reforming coke deactivation. Therefore, many 
variants of this format are anticipated for specific studies 
of other reactions, in a manner analogous to Hougen- 
Watson models of the primary kinetics. 
Equation 20 has been shown to represent experimental 
data which previously required three different empirical 
forms for adequate description. As such, it can provide 
a tool for (1) providing additional insight into the coking 
Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev., Vol. 23, No. 2, 1984 241 
50 c 
TIME (hr) 
Figure 5. Typical time dependence of catalyst coke content at high 
coke levels. 
process beyond that offered by fitting eq 7 and 13, 
thereby 
improving modeling capability, (2) providing a basis for 
correlating total coke content for reactor design and cat- 
alyst regeneration studies, in a fashion generally superior 
to the direct use of eq 12 or 13, and (3) 
providing a basis 
for interpreting data from on-line catalyst samplers, used 
for catalyst coke measurements and thereby inferences 
about remaining catalyst activity and run length. 
It is also useful to speculate about the value of eq 20 in 
representing observed coke-time profiles, relative to the 
other empirical coke-activity equations. In Figure 5 is 
shown a typical coke-time profile reported by Dumez and 
Froment (1976). It exhibits the traditional concave-down 
shape, 
typical of many commercial 
reador r
u
n
s
.
 
The shape 
can often be correlated for any single reactor test by the 
Voorhies (1945) relationship (Prater and Lago, 1956), 
al- 
though this approach has not been found to be useful for 
general process correlations. 
For differential reactor or thermobalance data, the in- 
tegrated form of eq 14 is often found to be useful (see 
Romero et al., 1981, 
and Krishnaswamy and Kittrell, 1978, 
1979). Without regard to mechanistic detail or the precise 
form of the partial pressure dependence of eq 13, it simply 
reflects a deactivation process which is first order in re- 
maining catalyst activity. If we interpret the catalyst coke 
content data by the empirical exponential form 
a = exp(-P1q) 
(26) 
the comparison of eq 26 to eq 14 yields 
exp(-Plq) = exp(-yt) 
(27) 
Hence, for the common first order deactivation of eq 13, 
the exponential coke-activity relationship, eq 26, implies 
a linear coke-time curve. As typified by Figure 5, this is 
not expected to be valid, particularly at the higher coke 
content typical of long-term commercial operation. 
S
i
m
i
l
a
r
 
analysis of the empirical 
hyperbolic activity coke 
relationship reveals that it implies a concave-upwards 
coke-time relationship which is also unsatisfactory 
since 
and dq/dt is a positively increasing function of time. 
The linear coke-activity equation does provide a con- 
cave-down 
shape, but the linear cokeactivity relationship 
itself does not exhibit sufficient generality in describing 
experimental data (Froment, 1980). 
By contrast, not only does the multilayer coke model of 
eq 20 describe the data of Figures 1, 2, 3 and 4, but also 
it provides the desired shape typified by Figure 5. The 
solid line through the data points of Figure 5 represents 
the fit of eq 14 and 20. Although no mechanistic inter- 
pretation is intended, the agreement of the line with the 
data clearly indicates the potential of the multilayer coke 
model to represent such data. Since eq 14 is only an 
indicative representation of the deactivation data, com- 
parisons of the a1 
and cy2 estimates between Figures 2 and 
5 are inappropriate. However, in more comprehensive 
studies, the a1 
and a2 
estimates from q-a data and from 
q-t data should lie within a common confidence region. 
Conclusions 
A simple model has been derived to relate catalyst ac- 
tivity to catalyst coke content, using multilayer coke ar- 
guments likely to be of relevance for the high coke levels 
associated with coke-induced catalyst deactivation. The 
model is derived from consideration of the rates of for- 
mation of an initial coke level directly associated with the 
active site and a subsequent coke formation in multilayer 
levels. This subsequent coke accumulation can be envi- 
sioned either by an Eley-Rideal mechanism on top of the 
original coke or by a coke filament growth associated with 
the site. The model, as 
derived, provides the same activ- 
ity-coke relationship for both parallel and series fouling; 
only the coke-bed length relationship is thereby altered. 
The model adequately fits classical experimental data 
previously requiring the three separate empirical forms- 
linear, exponential, and hyperbolic. Examination of the 
parameter values thus obtained illustrates why the general 
functional form reduces to each empirical form, which is 
partially dependent upon the coke level achieved on the 
catalyst. The model contains ratios of rate constants 
which, depending upon their respective activation energies, 
can accommodate all the observed temperature depen- 
dencies of the empirical model forms. Finally, the model 
provides the proper functional form to describe typical 
coke-time data, such as 
that represented by the Voorhies 
(1945) relationship. 
Nomenclature 
A, B, C, = reactant, product and coke, respectively. 
a = catalyst activity 
d = average of catalyst activity at start of run and end of run 
CAS, 
CBS = number of active sites occupied by A and B, re- 
Cc = monolayer coke content o
f
 catalyst, mg o
f
 coke/g of cat. 
Ccs = number of monolayer coked active sites, mol/g of cat. 
CL = multilayer coke content of catalyst, mg of coke/g of cat. 
Cs = number o
f
 unoccupied active sites at any time, mol/g 
Cso = number of fresh catalyst active sites mol/g of cat. 
K = equilibrium constant for the primary reaction 
KA, KB 
= equilibrium adsorption constants o
f
 A and B, re- 
k = rate constant of primary reaction, h-l 
kD = rate constant of coking by monolayer coke, h-' 
spectively, mol/g of cat. 
of cat. 
spectively, atm-l 
242 
Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1984, 23, 242-250 
kL 
= rate constant of coking by multilayer coke, h-I atm-’ 
PA, PB = partial pressures of A and B, respectively, atm 
q = total coke content of catalyst, mg of coke/g of cat. 
S = active site 
t = operation time, h 
Greek Letters 
a’, a2 
= deactivation constants, mg of coke/g of cat. 
p ,  PI, pZ 
= deactivation constants, g of cat./mg of coke 
y = deactivation constant, h-’ 
pc = stoichiometric 
factor, mol/mg of coke 
Registry No. 
C, 
7440-44-0. 
Literature Cited 
Anderson. R. B.; Whitehouse, A. M. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1061, 53, 1011. 
Beeckman, J. W.; Froment, 0
.
 
F. Chem. fng. Scl. 1080, 35, 805. 
Butt, J. B.; Rohan, D. M. Chem. Eng. Scl. 1068, 23. 
489. 
Cooper, 8. J.; Trlmm, D. L. "Proceedings, International Symposium on Cata- 
Dumez, F. J.; Froment, G. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1976, 
Froment, G. F. Proc. Int. Congr. Catal. 6th, London 1976, 10 
lyst Deacthratlon, Antwerp”; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 1980 p 63. 
15, 291. 
Froment, G. F. “Proceedings, International Symposium on Catalyst Deactlva- 
Froment, G. F.; Blschoff. K. B. Chem. Eng. Scl. 1061, 16, 189. 
Froment, G. F.; Blschoff, K. B. Chem. Eng. Scl. 1962, 17, 105. 
Krlshnaswamy, S.; Kittrell, J. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1978, 
Krlshnaswamy, S.; Kittrell, J. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1979, 
Ozawa, Y.; Blschoff, K. B. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Res. Dev. l988a 7 ,  
Ozawa, Y.; Bischoff, K. 8. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Res. Dev. 1068b 7 ,  
Prater, C. D.; Lago, R. M. 
Adv. Catal. 1056, 8 ,  
372. 
Relff, E. K. Jr.; Kittrell, J. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Fundam. 1060, 19, 126. 
Romero, A.; Bilbao, J.; Gonzalez-Velasco, J. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process 
Rudershausen, C. 0
.
;
 
Watson, C. C. Chem. Eng. Scl. 1054, 3 ,  110. 
Takeuch. M.; Ishige, T.; Fukumuro, T.; Kubota, H.; Shlmdo, M. Kagaku Koga- 
Voorhies, A. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1945, 37, 318. 
tlon, Antwerp”; Elsevler: Amsterdam, 1980 p 1. 
17, 200. 
18, 399. 
67. 
72. 
Des. Dev. 1081, 20, 570. 
ku 1966, 4 ,  
387. 
Receiued for review November 29, 1982 
Revised manuscript receiued May 9, 1983 
Accepted June 20, 1983 
Tubing Bomb Coal Liquefaction Technique 
Peter S. Maa; 
Richard C. Neavel, and Lonnie W. Vernon 
Exxon Research and Englneerlng Company, Baytown, Texas 77520 
An experimental coal liquefaction test procedure is described in which coal, solvent, and hydrogen are reacted 
in a small, agitated batch reactor (tubing bomb) that is rapkay heated In a sand bath. After completion of the desired 
reaction tlme, the reactor is quench-cooled, and solM and IlquM reaction products are removed using cyclohexane 
as a wash medium. Conversion of coal to cyclohexane soluble material is reproducible and correlates well with 
the conversion to 538 O
C
 (1000 O F )  minus boiling point liquids obtained by larger scale process units. The principal 
data obtained with the tubing bomb technique are: hydrogen consumption (molecular hydrogen and hydrogen 
transferred from the solvent), gas 
make (H,S, COX, 
and hydrocarbon gases), 
water make, liquid yiekls, solid residue 
(cyclohexane insolubles), and conversion. Details of the apparatus, experimental procedure, sample analysis 
procedures, and data workup are described. Experimental results for a bituminous, a subbituminous coal and a 
lignite are shown to illustrate the technique. 
Introduction 
Since 1968, 
investigators of coal conversion processes at 
the Baytown, Texas laboratory of Exxon Research and 
Engineering Company have effectively employed a small 
reactor system referred to as a “tubing bomb” by Neavel 
(1976). The system, though conceived independently, is 
in some respects similar to that described by Curran et al. 
(1967). Through the years since 1968, it has been modified 
and improved, and has been proven to be a versatile tool. 
It was originally developed to replace large, slow-heating 
autoclaves used to study coal liquefaction reactions, and 
has since been employed in a broad range of investigations 
where relatively small samples are adequate and where a 
rapid heat-up of reactants is desirable. 
In the coal liquefaction area, tubing bombs have been 
used to investigate the effects of variations in feedstocks, 
solvents, and process conditions. They have also been 
employed to study reactions of pure compounds as 
models 
of liquefaction systems by Aczel et ai. (1979) and by 
Vernon (1980). Catalytic processes and noncatalytic 
processes have been studied in a variety of liquid and 
gaseous media, including pyrolytic reactions in inert at- 
mospheres. 
0196-4305/84/1123-0242$01.50/0 
The objective of this paper is to provide to the scientific 
and technical community a detailed description of the 
procedures that are employed in the use of tubing bomb 
reactors to investigate the liquefaction of coal in a solvent 
or vehicle. We believe that the utility and versatility of 
the system has withstood the test of time and that our 
experiences could be usefully passed on to other investi- 
gators. Because some other investigators 
are already using 
similar systems, we believe that comparability of results 
will be enhanced if procedures are most similar. The de- 
scription of procedures that follows is quite detailed. 
Though some shortcuts can be employed, we have found 
that they invariably lead to results that do not compare 
favorably to those obtained when all of the specified steps 
are carefully followed. We caution the reader, therefore, 
that, based on our experience, one assumes a real risk of 
deriving erroneous conclusions should the procedures not 
be followed carefully. 
Experimental Apparatus 
The apparatus used for a tubing bomb liquefaction ex- 
periment includes a tubing bomb setup, a gas charging 
system, a gas collection system, a top load balance with 
0 1984 American Chemical Society 
