<quotes>

[1] "In 2019 the ever-growing worldwide consumption of ethylene and propylene soared to approximately 160 and 115 million tons, respectively (Fig. 1a).1 These light olefins are mainly produced from petroleum-derived steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking (FCC), methanol to olefins (MTO) and FischerTropsch to olefins (FTO).2,3 These technologies in general feature high energy consumption and enormous carbon emission, and contradict sustainable development criteria that have strict requirements on environmental protection and energy-consumption. This raises challenges both scientifically and technologically, and drives a shift of chemical engineering from energy-demanding chemical processes to more environmentally friendly protocols of catalysis to produce olefins with high atom economy, low energy consumption and low emission."
[2] "Currently about 10% of the global propylene is produced via propane dehydrogenation (PDH), which is considered an economically and environmentally friendly route. Hence, PDH is expected to be applied more widely in the forthcoming years according to a forecast that catalytic dehydrogenation of propane would supply approximately 30% of the global propylene production by the year 20255 owing to the success in the large-scale exploitation of natural gas and shale gas."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The significance of propene in the chemical industry has evolved due to its increasing demand, which has driven the adoption of propane dehydrogenation as a preferred production method. The traditional technologies for producing light olefins, such as steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, methanol to olefins, and Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, are characterized by high energy consumption and significant carbon emissions, which are at odds with sustainable development criteria. This has led to a shift in chemical engineering towards more environmentally friendly catalytic processes that can produce olefins with high atom economy, low energy consumption, and low emissions. Propane dehydrogenation is considered an economically and environmentally friendly route for producing propene, and it is expected to be applied more widely in the future, with a forecast that it will supply approximately 30% of the global propylene production by 2025.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烯在化工行业的重要性演变是由于其需求的增加，这推动了丙烷脱氢作为首选生产方法的采用。生产轻质烯烃的传统技术，如蒸汽裂解、流化催化裂解、甲醇制烯烃和费托合成制烯烃，其特点是高能耗和大量碳排放，这与可持续发展标准相矛盾。这导致化工工程向更环保的催化过程转变，这些过程可以生产具有高原子经济性、低能耗和低排放的烯烃。丙烷脱氢被认为是生产丙烯的一种经济和环保的途径，预计在未来将得到更广泛的应用，预计到2025年，它将供应全球约30%的丙烯生产。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
