<quotes>

[1] "In 2019 the ever-growing worldwide consumption of ethylene and propylene soared to approximately 160 and 115 million tons, respectively (Fig. 1a).1 These light olefins are mainly produced from petroleum-derived steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking (FCC), methanol to olefins (MTO) and FischerTropsch to olefins (FTO).2,3 These technologies in general feature high energy consumption and enormous carbon emission, and contradict sustainable development criteria that have strict requirements on environmental protection and energy-consumption."
[2] "Hence, PDH is expected to be applied more widely in the forthcoming years according to a forecast that catalytic dehydrogenation of propane would supply approximately 30% of the global propylene production by the year 20255 owing to the success in the large-scale exploitation of natural gas and shale gas."
[3] "In recent years, the rich availability and low-cost of worldwide natural gas and shale gas production (Fig. 1b) have motivated the development of industrial techniques towards the gas-based dehydrogenation routes to obtain light olefins."
[4] "Currently about 10% of the global propylene is produced via propane dehydrogenation (PDH), which is considered an economically and environmentally friendly route."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The significance of propene in the chemical industry has evolved due to its increasing demand, which has driven the adoption of propane dehydrogenation as a preferred production method. The increasing demand for propene is due to its use as a feedstock for the production of polymers, such as polypropylene, which is a key component of the chemical industry. The demand for propene has soared to approximately 115 million tons in 2019. The traditional technologies for producing propene, such as steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, methanol to olefins, and Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, are energy-intensive and produce a large amount of carbon emissions, which contradicts sustainable development criteria. Propane dehydrogenation is expected to be applied more widely in the future, as it is considered an economically and environmentally friendly route. It is forecasted that catalytic dehydrogenation of propane will supply approximately 30% of the global propene production by 2025. The rich availability and low cost of natural gas and shale gas have motivated the development of industrial techniques towards gas-based dehydrogenation routes to obtain light olefins. Currently, about 10% of the global propene is produced via propane dehydrogenation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烯在化工行业的重要性演变是由于其需求的增加，这推动了丙烷脱氢作为首选生产方法的采用。丙烯需求的增加是由于它被用作生产聚合物，如聚丙烯的原料，这是化工行业的一个关键组成部分。2019年，丙烯的需求量飙升至约1.15亿吨。传统的丙烯生产技术，如蒸汽裂解、流化催化裂解、甲醇制烯烃和费托合成制烯烃，都是能源密集型的，会产生大量的碳排放，这与可持续发展标准相矛盾。预计丙烷脱氢在未来将得到更广泛的应用，因为它被认为是一种经济和环境友好的路线。预计到2025年，催化脱氢丙烷将供应全球约30%的丙烯生产。天然气和页岩气的丰富可用性和低成本激发了工业技术向基于气体的脱氢路线发展，以获得轻质烯烃。目前，全球约10%的丙烯是通过丙烷脱氢生产的。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
