206
Journal of Chemical Education  •  Vol. 85  No. 2  February 2008  •  www.JCE.DivCHED.org  •  © 
Division of Chemical Education 
Chemical Education Today
Book & Media Reviews
edited by
Jeffrey Kovac
University of Tennessee
Knoxville, TN 37996-1600
Physical Chemistry: Thermodynamics
by Horia Metiu
Taylor & Francis, New York, London, 2006. 694 pp. 
ISBN: 978-0815340911 (paper). $49.95 
Physical Chemistry: Statistical Mechanics
by Horia Metiu
Taylor & Francis, New York, London, 2006. 292 pp. 
ISBN: 978-0815340850 (paper). $44.95 
Physical Chemistry: Kinetics
by Horia Metiu
Taylor & Francis, New York, London, 2006. 169 pp. 
ISBN: 978-0815340898 (paper). $44.95
Physical Chemistry: Quantum Mechanics
by Horia Metiu
Taylor & Francis, New York, London, 2006. 481 pp. 
ISBN: 978-0815340874 (paper). $44.95
reviewed by John Krenos
Horia Metiu has created a significant set of volumes on un­
dergraduate physical chemistry. The integration of Mathematica 
and Mathcad workbooks into the four texts provides instructors 
with an attractive new option in teaching. Metiu’s writing style is 
folksy and the graphics minimal, a refreshing approach. A brief 
overview of topics and a description of a few software examples 
form the basis of this review. The four texts are considered in 
the order provided on the inside cover by the publisher, namely 
Thermodynamics, Statistical Mechanics, Kinetics, and Quantum 
Mechanics. Each begins with a preface designed to explain the 
author’s approach to incorporating Mathematica/Mathcad 
workbooks into a physical chemistry text, and a preview of the 
material to be covered. A how-to section follows that elaborates 
on the use of workbooks, exercises, and problems. The section 
is worded the same in the four volumes; however, at its end, the 
author provides a different chapter-by-chapter listing of unsolved 
exercises, a clearly useful guide for the instructor.
The text-specific workbooks are included on a CD-ROM 
attached to the inside back cover of each text. On each CD, help­
ful tutorials are also provided for Mathematica and Mathcad. 
The Mathematica workbooks were created by the author at the 
University of California Santa Barbara with the use of version 
5.1. The Mathcad workbooks were created by Jeffry Madura at 
Duquesne University. I viewed the workbooks at Rutgers with 
Mathematica 5.2 (site license) and Mathcad 2001i (personal 
copy); they performed as advertised.
Thermodynamics is the most extensive and impressive. 
By design, only a few end-of-chapter problems are given. On 
the other hand, the author embeds numerous examples and 
exercises in the text. The CD-software workbooks are intended 
to remove the mathematical simplification and approximation 
used by necessity in conventional texts; they succeed admirably 
with calculations of much greater accuracy and application (19 
workbook files in Mathematica, a substantial number consider­
ing each file typically contains many examples and problems). I 
particularly like the section on realistic gas laws. An interesting 
application is the determination of the van der Waals a and b 
coefficients by fitting actual pressure–temperature data for eth­
ane over a wide range of conditions followed by a comparison to 
tabular values. This volume also incorporates relevant historical 
information; for example, insightful and original observations 
by Daniel Fahrenheit, Joseph Black, and others are presented 
as supplements.
Chapters in Thermodynamics cover the following topics 
(taken from 29 chapter titles): Temperature, Pressure, Molar 
Volume, and Equilibrium; The Equation of State; How to 
Use the Equation of State; Thermodynamic Transformations; 
Work; Heat; Reversible and Irreversible Transformations; Path-
Dependent and Path-Independent Quantities; First and Second 
Laws; Helmholtz and Gibbs Free Energies; How to Calculate 
the Change of Entropy in an Equilibrium Transformation; 
Thermochemistry; The Change of Chemical Potential During 
an Equilibrium Transformation; The Chemical Potential of a 
Compound in a Mixture; Mixtures: Partial Molar Quantities 
and Activities; Chemical Equilibrium (five chapters); Phase 
Transitions–Equilibria (four chapters); Vapor–Liquid Equilibri­
um; Electrolyte Solutions; Electrochemistry (two chapters). All 
topics are covered in depth. There are nine appendices contain­
ing a variety of data. I especially found useful the one in which 
the author lists thermodynamic properties for 33 compounds at 
eight different temperatures (298.15 K to 1000 K). One minor 
issue is the author’s use of lower case symbols for molar volume 
(υ) and molar entropy (s) contrary to usage found in many physi­
cal chemistry texts (Vm and Sm, respectively).
Statistical Mechanics and Kinetics are used together in a 
quarter course at Santa Barbara. The two texts are somewhat in­
tegrated in that the last topic in the former, Transition State The­
ory, has applications to the latter. The 15 chapters in Statistical 
Mechanics cover the following topics: The Fundamental Equa­
tions of Statistical Mechanics; The Physical Interpretation of the 
Fundamental Equations of Statistical Mechanics; Interpretation 
of the Thermodynamic Quantities; The Partition Function of a 
System of Independent Particles; The Partition Function of an 
© 
Division of Chemical Education  •  www.JCE.DivCHED.org  •  Vol. 85  No. 2  February 2008  •  Journal of Chemical Education
207
Chemical Education Today
Ideal Gas of Atoms; The Thermodynamic Functions of an Ideal 
Gas of Atoms; The Thermodynamics Properties of an Ideal Gas 
for which Electronic and Nuclear Contributions are Negligible; 
A Test of the Theory for a Gas for which Electronic and Nuclear 
Degrees of Freedom Matter; The Statistical Mechanics of a Gas 
of Diatomic Molecules; A Gas of Diatomic Molecules: Com­
parison with Experiment; Chemical Equilibrium; Transition 
State Theory (four chapters). Polyatomic molecules are not 
included in the discussion, a topic that many physical chemistry 
texts consider in detail. An ample number of workbooks (11) 
and exercises are included. One topic with clear and thorough 
explanations is the development of the properties of ortho- and 
para-hydrogen. The accompanying workbook calculations of 
heat capacity against temperature are informative.
Kinetics is the smallest and least developed volume. Basic 
kinetics, however, is treated well and workbooks with pow­
erful differential equation solving power offer great utility 
(eight workbooks are included). The nine chapters in Kinetics 
cover these topics: Generalities about the Rates of Chemical 
Reactions; Irreversible First-Order Reactions; The Temperature 
Dependence of the Rate Constant: the Arrhenius Formula; Irre­
versible Second-Order Reactions; Reversible First-Order Reac­
tions; Reversible Second-Order Reactions; Coupled Reactions; 
An Example of a Complex Reaction: Chain Reactions; Enzyme 
Kinetics. Missing topics include collision theory, Lindemann 
theory, RRKM theory, termolecular reactions, transport pro­
cesses, and molecular reaction dynamics (although a discussion 
of potential energy surfaces relating to some chemical reactions 
is given in Statistical Mechanics).
Quantum Mechanics is a volume I especially like. The ap­
proach is to begin with physical observables and classical me­
chanics, leading to the introduction of mathematical operators 
and the transformations required for the wave treatment. The 
21 chapters in Quantum Mechanics cover: Why Quantum Me­
chanics?; Dynamical Variables and Operators; The Eigenvalue 
Problem; What Do We Measure When We Study Quantum 
Systems; Some Results are Certain, Most are Just Probable; 
The Physical Interpretation of the Wavefunction; Tunneling; 
Particle in a Box; Light Emission and Absorption: the Phe­
nomena; Light Emission and Absorption: Einstein’s Phenom­
enological Theory; Light Absorption: A Result of Quantum 
Theory; Light Emission and Absorption by a Particle in a Box 
and a Harmonic Oscillator; Two-Particle Systems; Angular 
Momentum; Two-Particle Systems: The Radial and Angular 
Schrödinger Equation; The Energy Eigenstates of a Diatomic 
Molecule; Diatomic Molecule: Its Spectroscopy; Hydrogen 
Book & Media Reviews
Atom: the Eigenstates; The Spin of the Electron and Its Role 
in Spectroscopy; The Hydrogen Molecule; Nuclear Magnetic 
Resonance and Electron Spin Resonance. Most chapters have 
workbooks, a total of 17.
The section on NMR is of particular note because most 
chemists are familiar with this technique and accurate calcula­
tions are possible with less effort. Symmetry is not covered, be­
cause, in the words of the author, “to do it right would take too 
much time” and, in addition, “doing it briefly leads to a presenta­
tion devoid of content.” As in Statistical Mechanics, polyatomic 
molecules are not treated. The author uses the symbol ħ for the 
Planck constant and the symbol Ω for the photon frequency in 
both Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Mechanics (Ephoton = 
ħΩ). In Chapter 9 of Quantum Mechanics, he introduces the 
“old” Planck constant h, the “old” frequency v, and the latter’s 
mathematical relationship to Ω. The term “old” refers to the old 
quantum theory. The symbol ħ is then referred to as the “new” 
Planck constant and Ω the “new” photon frequency. In Chapter 
21, the “old” constant and frequency are used in the treatment of 
NMR. In that chapter, the author reveals for the first time that 
Ω is called the angular frequency.
Taken as a whole, the four volumes on physical chemistry 
by Metiu are impressive, particularly Thermodynamics and Quan­
tum Mechanics. The texts may be used with or without the math 
software, but teaching will be most effective if workbooks are 
used. The two-semester physical chemistry sequence at Rutgers 
covers the topics of quantum chemistry and spectroscopy in 
the first semester; thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and 
kinetics in the second. One of our instructors has the goal of 
incorporating Mathematica workbooks into our first semester 
course and is currently evaluating Quantum Mechanics. Without 
a doubt, the four textbooks provide essential materials of great 
utility to physical chemistry instructors. The bottom line is that 
the set of four volumes is a must have—a keeper—as a novel 
resource or invaluable classroom tool.
Supporting JCE Online Material
http://www.jce.divched.org/Journal/Issues/2008/Feb/abs206.html
Abstract and keywords
Full text (HTML and PDF)
John Krenos is a member of the Department of Chemistry 
and Chemical Biology, Rutgers, The State University of New 
Jersey, 610 Taylor Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854-8087; krenos@
rutgers.edu.
