S34
Abstracts / Toxicology Letters 172S (2007) S1–S240
ies showed that oral administrations of d-penicillamine
(DP), diclofenac (DF) or Nevirapine (NV) induced sys-
temic immune sensitization. For DP, female C3H/HeOuJ
mice received the RA TNP-OVA, i.p. on day 0 and 50,
150 or 450 mg/kg by gavage on days 0–7. Mice dosed
upto150 mg/kgdisplayedincreasedTNP-speciﬁcserum
antibody responses but only the 450 mg/kg groups had
increased TNP-speciﬁc DTH responses. Oral DF dos-
ing also stimulated the antibody and DTH response
to TNP-OVA, whereas NV only stimulated the DTH
response. Apparently, the RA approach allows detection
of systemic immunosensitization upon oral exposures to
model drugs.
Additional drugs need to be tested to verify whether
the proposed stepwise approach, including RA-PLNA
and oral exposures, is indeed useful for hazard
assessment of systemic sensitizing potential of pharma-
ceuticals.
doi:10.1016/j.toxlet.2007.05.116
80
Drug allergy does not need to involve reactive
intermediates: An alternative hypothesis
Werner Pichler
University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
Drug-induced hypersensitivity reactions are usually
explained by the hapten concept, which postulates that
the formation of hapten–carrier complexes are required
to induce an immune response. If the drug is chemically
inert, an immune reaction can only arise if the drug is
metabolised to a reactive compound (prohapten hypoth-
esis). This hapten concept is well documented for contact
dermatitis, but questionable for many systemic immune
reactions to drugs like different forms of exanthems.
We recently developed an alternative model, which
seems to better explain some clinical and biological fea-
tures of systemic drug hypersensitivity. This so called
p-i concept (pharmacological interaction of drugs with
immune receptors) implies a radical change of our think-
ing about drug hypersensitivity: drugs would not need to
bind covalently to the MHC–peptide complex in order
to trigger an immune response; rather, some drugs may
bind directly, non-covalently and reversibly to immune
receptors like some of the >1012 different T cell receptors
(TCR), thereby stimulating the cells akin to a pharmaco-
logical activation of other receptors. Of note, it would not
(!) be an own immune response to the drug, but activa-
tion of previously (peptide) primed T cells by the drug.
The activated T cells consecutively exert cytotoxicity
and cytokine release, leading to the different types of
inﬂammations seen in drug hypersensitivity.
The p-i concept is based on the in vitro analysis of
drug speciﬁc T cell clones and of mouse hybridoma
cells into which drug speciﬁc TCR were transfected. It
explains the very rapid reactivity of drug speciﬁc T cells
to inert drugs (within seconds to minutes), even if the
antigen presenting cells were ﬁxed, which makes them
unable to process and metabolize the drug. Recently we
found that a certain level of TCR stimulation can occur
even in the absence of antigen presenting cells, and that
drugs may act on TCR like agonists, partial agonist or
even antagonist.
The p-i concept has major implications to assess the
risk of a hypersensitivity reaction to a novel drug, as one
should consider the potential of the drug to interact with
TCR and not so much its chemical reactivity. Such tests
are presently under development.
doi:10.1016/j.toxlet.2007.05.117
W15 Nanorisk
81
From nanoscience to nanotechnology: Utilising the
nanoscale
Flemming Besenbacher, Duncan S. Sutherland, Mads
Bruun Hovgaard
iNANO Center, University of Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark
During the last decade there has been an enormous
expansion in research and development in the area of
nanotechnology. The increased focus on the nanoscale
has been driven by the signiﬁcant potential that the
application of nanoscience and nanotechnology can pro-
vide solutions to basic industrial and societal needs.
Materials whose size is reduced to the nanometer scale
often exhibit new and unique properties both interesting
from an academic perspective and useful from a soci-
etal perspective. The research requires interdisciplinary
research teams with backgrounds in natural sciences,
bio and medical sciences and analytical tools capable of
characterising small systems with nanoscale resolution.
Technological advances in the ﬁeld of imaging at the
nanoscale have allowed new insight and new mechanis-
tic understanding. Developments within scanning probe
microscopes will be highlighted along with a number
of examples of current nanotechnology research at the
iNANO center with impact in the areas of nanocatalysis,
nanomedicine and nanosensors.
doi:10.1016/j.toxlet.2007.05.119
