Surface anion vacancies on ceria: Quantum modelling of mutual
interactions and oxygen adsorption
Jose
´ C. Conesa *
Instituto de Cata
´lisis y Petroleoquı
´mica, CSIC, Marie Curie 2, Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain
1. Introduction
Cerium oxide is an important ingredient in redox catalysts
active in chemical reactions such as combustion of organics, car
exhaust gas cleaning, water gas shift (WGS), CO preferential
oxidation (PROX), intermediate temperature solid oxide fuel cells
or sulfur removal in FCC units [1]. Its high redox activity is to a large
extent due to its ability to easily release and retake oxygen with
concomitant change of cerium from the Ce4+ redox state to the Ce3+
state and back. In the process of reoxidation of the previously
reduced solid, electrons (four in total) are transferred from Ce3+
ions to one incoming O2 molecule to give in the end two oxide
(O2) ions in lattice positions; paramagnetic O2
 (superoxide) and
diamagnetic O2
2 (peroxide) species have been identiﬁed with EPR
(for O2
2) [2–4] and vibrational [4–7] spectroscopies as products of
the ﬁrst stages of this process. It seems reasonable to assume that
completing this reoxidation process will require having in close
proximity the four Ce3+ ions that donate the electrons and the two
anion vacancies that must accept the O2 ions.
From this point of view it was interesting to observe, during an
atomistic simulation work [8], that anion vacancies had apparently
a tendency to associate on the (1 1 1) surface of CeO2, that was
predicted to be the most stable one, but not in the (1 1 0) surface,
second in stability. This tendency to association had been
suggested
by
EPR
studies
of
nanocrystalline
ceria
samples
activated at different temperatures [4], in which the change in
EPR
spectral
parameters
of
O2

species
(formed
upon
O2
adsorption) that took place when rising the outgassing tempera-
ture to 573 K or higher was proposed to be due to anion vacancy
clustering, and seemed to receive later additional support from
STM and AFM measurements [9–13]. To help to clarify this issue,
the present work presents a quantum simulation of the association
of anion vacancies on the CeO2(1 1 1) surface and of the adsorption
of O2 on them.
The simulation of the effect of reduction on the ceria surface has
been already undertaken by other authors; a number of these are
discussed in a recently appeared review [14]. Although some study
has been carried out using Hartree–Fock-type approaches on ﬁnite
cluster models [15–17] or periodic models [17], in almost all cases
density functional theory (DFT) has been the basis of the
calculations. In the last years it has become apparent that standard
DFT, that was used in some earlier work [18,19], is inadequate to
model bulk ceria or its surface when in the partially or fully
reduced state [20] (and see also [21,22]), [23,24]. This is due to the
fact that this level of theory has an unphysical, non-cancelled
electron self-interaction that unduly promotes delocalization in
Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Article history:
Available online 3 January 2009
Keywords:
Cerium oxide
Modelling
DFT
Anion vacancies
Adsorbed oxygen
Redox catalyst
A B S T R A C T
Quantum DFT + U calculations using periodic slab models are made to understand the characteristics of
surface defects containing one, two or three anion vacancies at the CeO2(1 1 1) surface. Several non-
equivalent energy minima with different positions of localized Ce3+ ions can exist due to polaron-type
distortions that inﬂuence the relative stability of Ce3+ in 6- and 7-fold coordinated sites. The calculated
total energies do not conﬁrm the tendency to vacancy association suggested by previous works. In the
case of associated vacancies spontaneous outwards movement of one oxygen ion from a subsurface layer
is observed. Oxygen adsorption on these defects leads to electron transfer to the O2 molecule, forming
peroxide species, except when only one electron is available in which case paramagnetic O2
 species
appear; the adsorption energies involved are computed and discussed. All these species appear
asymmetrically coordinated to three surface Ce ions. The presence of excess electrons, as is the case
when two or more vacancies associate, does not lead in general in these calculations to a barrierless
complete reduction of the O2 molecule, a process which would produce a pair of oxide ions; this is
explained considering the relative energies of the orbitals involved. Thermal activation would be needed
to complete this process.
 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
* Tel.: +34 915854766; fax: +34 915854760.
E-mail address: jcconesa@icp.csic.es.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Catalysis Today
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cattod
0920-5861/$ – see front matter  2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2008.11.005
the resulting electrons and predicts a metallic character of the 4f
manifold, that contains excess electrons in its lower part. This
problem has been solved in a number of more recent works by
introducing a Hubbard-type correction term U (the DFT + U
approach)
[20,25–32]
or,
in
other
works,
by
using
hybrid
functionals that include some amount of Hartree–Fock exchange
[17,23,24]; some self-interaction corrected calculations on Ce2O3
have been made as well [33]. In the present work, the DFT + U
method is used; the hybrid functional method, although trying to
correct the DFT adequacies in a more general (less ad hoc) way and
consequently being more reliable in principle, gives incorrect
results in some cases [34,35], and has furthermore a much higher
computational cost if used with a plane wave basis set (that is
much more adequate when accurate and well converged total
energy values are desired, as is the case here). As will be apparent
in the following, the results show signiﬁcant effects of electron
localization on Ce ions, atomic movements induced by vacancy
association and electronic features of adsorbed dioxygen species
that are related to the degree of electron transfer to them.
2. Methods and models
To represent the (1 1 1) surface, periodic slab models (Fig. 1), in
which the slab surfaces are parallel to a (1 1 1) plane, were
constructed from supercells of the bulk, non-reduced CeO2 ﬂuorite
structure. In this latter the size of the primitive unit cell (3.8434 A
˚ )
was determined by relaxing it in a previous calculation of CeO2
made within the same DFT + U theory level. In these slab models
the unit cell axes a and b, parallel to the ﬂuorite structure (1 1 1)
plane and forming between them an angle of 1208, were derived
from those of the cubic ﬂuorite cell (af, bf and cf) through the
operations a = (af + bf  2cf) and b = (bf + cf  2af), leading to an axis
length of 13.314 A
˚ (2
ﬃﬃﬃ
3
p
times that of the ﬂuorite primitive cell
axes), while the c axis, perpendicular to them, was long enough
that the empty space between slabs was 11 A
˚ (higher than the
minimum value of 10 A
˚ that has been reported as enough for
convergence in this system [36]). These cell dimensions were kept
ﬁxed in all relaxations. Each atomic plane parallel to the slab has
thus 12 atoms in this unit cell. It is expected that with this cell size
the lateral interactions between the periodic images of the defects
are kept small, or at most moderate, even for the largest of these
defects, that consist of three neighbouring vacancies. In particular,
the periodic dipoles associated with the defects studied were
computed and the energy of interaction between them, once
obtained, was found to contribute negligibly to the energy
differences of interest in this work.
The thickness of the slab was chosen at a minimal value, with
only six ion layers (four oxygen layers and two cerium layers), so
that for the unreduced case the model contains 72 atoms. It is
recognized that a larger slab thickness would be desirable to
ensure that the results are not distorted by this factor (it has been
reported that a slab with nine ion planes is adequate to ensure
convergence in respect to thickness [37]); but in this work, that
uses a large number of ions per layer, this had to be discarded to
keep the problem computationally tractable. It is noted, in any
case, that other works in the literature use the same slab thickness
as here [38,39].
Defects (oxygen vacancies) were located only at the upper O
plane of the slab, that will be taken here as origin of the z
coordinate perpendicular to it; in this situation, the upper Ce plane
has thus a coordinate z = 0.785 A
˚ . Besides the perfect surface
model containing no anion vacancy (designated with the label 0V),
models containing one surface anion vacancy (labelled 1V) or two
or three neighbouring surface anion vacancies (labelled 2V or 3V,
respectively) were studied. In the latter 3V case the vacancies were
arranged in a triangle, to enhance the effects of clustering. For this
there are two possible main conﬁgurations; in one of them the
centre of the vacancy triad is located above a Ce ion of the upper
cation layer, in the other one it is above an interstitial empty site of
that layer. The former conﬁguration, in which the mentioned Ce
ion has only four O neighbours, was veriﬁed to be much less stable;
results derived from it will not be presented here. The situation in
which only one excess electron is present was modelled by
substituting by one La ion one of the Ce ions close to an isolated
vacancy; this model will be designated 1VLa. Finally, structures
obtained by adding to these models one O2 molecule located on the
surface will be labelled adding the sufﬁx O2 to the initial model
name.
It was found that for each one of these vacancy defects different
speciﬁc sub-conﬁgurations could appear (depending on the
particular position of the ions in the unit cell of the model) in
which the Ce ions which received excess electronic density (thus
becoming Ce3+ ions) differed; these sub-conﬁgurations will be
labelled where necessary by appending lowercase letters to the
main labels mentioned above. The Ce3+ or Ce4+ nature of each Ce
ion could be easily ascertained by examining in the output of the
calculation the value of the total spin density integrated within the
atomic spheres deﬁned by the PAW potentials: in all the cases
discussed here this value was either higher than 0.90 or lower than
0.05. It was also noted that in the ﬁrst case the projection of the
spin density on f-type spherical harmonics within these spheres
accounted for the large majority of the mentioned value. Those two
situations can be therefore safely ascribed to Ce3+ (with a 4f1
conﬁguration) or Ce4+ ions. In some cases the mentioned sub-
conﬁgurations could be obtained in the fully relaxed ﬁnal
structures only by previously displacing manually some O atoms
towards or away from speciﬁc Ce ions so as to change the
corresponding Ce–O distances by about 5% (the typical difference
in Ce–O bond length observed in the calculations between Ce3+ and
Ce4+ for any given coordination number). In part of these cases an
initial displacement favouring speciﬁc locations of Ce3+ ions was
achieved by making a previous calculation in which these locations
were occupied by La atoms (as La3+ ions have typically ionic radii
similar or larger than those of Ce3+); the relaxed structures
obtained in this way were then used as starting points for the
deﬁnitive calculation involving only Ce and O atoms.
All calculations were made with the plane wave DFT code VASP
(version 4.6) developed at the Institut fu
¨r Material-physik of the
Universita
¨t-Wien [40–43], representing the atomic cores with the
PAW method [44,45] and using spin-polarized density functional
theory at the GGA level according to the PBE functional [46]. The
latter
was
supplemented
with
an
effective
Hubbard
term
Fig. 1. Slab model used to represent the CeO2(1 1 1) surface. Ce and O ions are
coloured white and red, respectively. (For interpretation of the references to color in
this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of the article.)
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
316
Ueff = U  J, of the rotationally invariant form proposed by Dudarev
et al. [47], equal to 4.5 eV [23], applied to the Ce 4f levels, trying to
correct the above mentioned excessive tendency of standard GGA
to electron delocalization (it is noted here, however, that there is
some debate about the best U value to use in these calculations
[30–32,48]). The energy cut-off adopted for the plane wave
representation
of
the
wavefunctions
was
375 eV,
and
the
reciprocal
space
was
sampled
with
a G-centred
6  6  1
Monkhorst-Pack grid (such a dense grid was found to be necessary
to have convergence of the energy differences in respect to the
reciprocal space sampling). In all the calculations all atoms except
for those at the bottom oxygen layer (that were kept ﬁxed) were
allowed to relax freely within the ﬁxed cell dimensions, starting
when necessary from atomic conﬁgurations having the symmetry
partially broken in order to ensure that the system was not kept in
a saddle point of the energy hypersurface. Partial density of states
(DOS) curves were obtained through projection of the Kohn–Sham
wavefunctions on spherical harmonics within the atomic spheres
deﬁned by the PAW potentials.
The self-consistent procedure determining the electron and
spin density distribution for each geometry was always carried out
leaving the total spin unconstrained and free to evolve as dictated
by the aufbau principle; only an initial assignment of non-zero
spin, in order to break the total spin symmetry, was applied to
some Ce ions; but it was not uncommon that the ions chosen for
this were not the same that appeared as Ce3+ ions in the ﬁnal
solution. In most cases the self-consistent calculation led to equal
spin directions for all the Ce3+ ions present (i.e. to a ferromagnetic-
type spin conﬁguration); in other cases some of the Ce3+ ions
appeared with spin orientation opposite to the other ones,
suggesting an antiferromagnetic interaction. The strength of this
interaction, related to the energy cost of changing the relative spin
orientations, was not analysed (as could be done by forcing speciﬁc
values of the total spin), but is expected to be rather small, since the
4f orbitals have typically very reduced overlap with neighbouring
ones, and there are no itinerant electrons at hand to carry the spin
polarization over several bond distances. The ferro or antiferro-
magnetic character of the vacancy defects, in any case, was not a
main concern of this work, as it is unlikely to determine their
stability or reactivity, and therefore the factors leading to one or
other type of ordering were not studied.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Single vacancy defects
The results obtained with models of 1V type, which predict
always a full ionization of the anion vacancy, showed in agreement
with previous works [25] that, even though the system has
topological 3-fold symmetry, the latter spontaneously breaks so
that the two extra electrons produced upon vacancy formation
become localized in two Ce ions. It was also found that, depending
on the exact geometry of the starting point, the structural
relaxation could lead to different non-equivalent sub-conﬁgura-
tions differing in the location of the Ce3+ ions; some of them are
displayed in Fig. 2a–c. As said above, these are easily discernible in
the calculation output through the values of the net spin
population on cerium. As indicated in this ﬁgure, these ﬁnal
converged solutions had slightly different energies. Computing the
total energies of the most stable of these solutions, the defect-free
surface and an isolated O2 molecule allows to obtain an energy
balance for the vacancy formation process
Ce24O48 ð0VÞ ! Ce24O47 ð1VÞ þ ð1=2ÞO2
DE ¼ þ2:45 eV
Some calculation was also made in which one Ce ion was
substituted by a La ion (Fig. 2, model 1VLa), in order to achieve a
situation in which the presence of one vacancy was accompanied
by only one excess electron (that also ended up localized in a Ce3+
ion). In this case an energy balance similar to the one above cannot
of course be established.
It is interesting to note that the sub-conﬁguration with lowest
energy is not that which contains the Ce3+ ions located as
immediate neighbours to the anion vacancy, i.e. in a 6-coordinated
site (1Vd in Fig. 2), as could be anticipated on purely electrostatic
grounds (since the ionized anion vacancy represents a net positive
charge); the Ce3+ ions in the most stable sub-conﬁguration are
rather in 7-coordinated next-neighbour locations (sub-conﬁgura-
tion 1Va in Fig. 2).
As already suggested in the literature when discussing the
Tb7O12 structure [49], which is derived from that of ﬂuorite by
ordering anion vacancies in it, the trivalent cations may prefer to
sit in positions having higher coordination numbers. This may be
due to the fact that lower coordination numbers, due to the
decreased repulsion between anions, allow these to approach
more the central atom, a situation which ﬁts better with the lower
ionic radius that is normally ascribed to the Ce4+ ion. Such
preference of Ce3+ for larger coordination distances, and the better
achievement of these when coordination numbers are large, is
conﬁrmed by an analysis of the coordination distances: in all the
relaxed situations obtained here the average Ce–O distances for
Ce3+ and Ce4+ ions that are not neighbours to the vacancy (i.e. are
coordinated to seven oxygen ions) are 2.48 and 2.36 A
˚ , respec-
tively, while for Ce3+ and Ce4+ immediate to the vacancy (i.e.
coordinated to six oxygen ions) these distances are 2.40 and
2.28 A
˚ , respectively.
This association between the electron localized in a Ce3+ ion and
the distortion of its immediate environment to achieve a higher
Ce–O coordination distance (which stabilizes the 4f electron in that
site) constitutes a polaronic effect. Anyway, the energy differences
between these polaronic states are not large, which means that at
ambient or higher temperatures a distribution of these situations
can exist. The conversion between them will be probably fast, as it
constitutes a process of polaron hopping that may have at the
surface an activation energy lower than that of the bulk process
(determined to be around 0.4 eV [50]).
The electronic structure of these situations can be visualized
as well through the corresponding DOS plots. Fig. 3a shows the
result for the perfect surface; the valence band, made mainly of
O(2p) orbitals, and the upper manifold of unoccupied states,
made mainly of Ce(4f) orbitals, appear separated by a gap of
2.2 eV. This value is lower than the experimental one (3.0 eV
[51]); such underestimation of band gaps is typical of both
standard DFT and DFT + U treatments. For models with one anion
vacancy the results (Fig. 3b and c) show two spin-polarized
levels in the band-gap, ﬁlled by two electrons and located ca.
0.8 eV below the main 4f manifold; the atom projected DOS
shows that they correspond to the 4f1 states of the two Ce3+ ions
present in these 1V-type models. Additional calculations (results
not displayed here) show that, in agreement with previous
works [20,26], this localization of electrons in individual Ce3+
ions, and the separation of these states from the rest of the 4f
manifold (which agrees with experimental results), are not
obtained when an effective Hubbard term Ueff is not added to the
GGA functional. In these plots it can be observed that the energy
of this DOS peak appearing in the band-gap slightly depends on
whether the Ce3+ ion is located in a 6- or 7-fold coordinated site,
the latter being preferred. This is in-line with the energy
difference between sub-conﬁgurations 1Va and 1Vb in Fig. 2. In
model 1VLa, built to simulate a situation with only one excess
electron, the position of the latter in the band-gap (again
corresponding to the 4f1 state of a Ce3+ ion) is similar to that
found in the two-electron 1V models.
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
317
3.2. Vacancy pairs
A complex of two vacancies located together was then
simulated. In this case four excess electrons are present that
become localized to give four Ce3+ ions, implying eventually
breaking of the maximum topological symmetry of the defect.
Again polaronic effects occur, and different inequivalent local
energy minima can result depending on the precise initial position
of the atoms. The number of possible sub-conﬁgurations is rather
high, and only some of them have been characterized in the
calculations; several of these can be seen in Fig. 4. A clear rule
about the preference or not of Ce3+ ions for sites immediate to the
vacancy cannot be observed, contrarily to what was observed for
the single vacancy defects. Maybe the more important and
asymmetric structure distortion caused by the close location of
two vacancies outweighs the factors that govern the optimal Ce3+
location in the case of the single vacancy. Still, one can observe now
that in all of the local minima obtained one of the Ce3+ ions is found
at the position that is nearest neighbour to both vacancies. Apart
from this, several inequivalent situations appear within a close
energy interval, and as in the case of a single vacancy one can
foresee that fast exchange among them may occur at ﬁnite
temperatures. One relevant observation is that, considering the
lowest
energy
sub-conﬁgurations
found
for
each
case,
the
following energy balance can be obtained:
2  1V ! 0V þ 2V
DE ¼ þ0:34 eV
(1)
This means that the association of vacancies in pairs is
energetically uphill, i.e. would not be favoured on this surface.
This result disagrees with the previous atomistic calculation [8]
which predicted for the same process a net energy change of
DE = 0.52 eV. The present result also would not allow to explain
some STM observations in the literature [9,11,13] which claim that
surface anion vacancies on CeO2(1 1 1) tend to form triads or to
associate in strings. Such disagreement between DFT and atomistic
calculations when predicting the relative stability of different
atomic orderings within the same ﬂuorite structure has been found
Fig. 2. Locations of Ce3+ ions (coloured green) for several of the energy-minimized structures (polaronic states) found after relaxation of single anion vacancy defects on a
CeO2(1 1 1) surface. For clarity only the three upper atomic layers are displayed. The drawing in the lower part corresponds to the model in which besides the vacancy a
lanthanum atom (coloured light blue) is present substituting a Ce atom. The numbers inserted for the other drawings in the lower left corner indicate their energies (in eV)
relative to that of the lowest one (1Va). (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of the article.)
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
318
already in studies on ceria–zirconia systems [52]. In principle one
would think that DFT calculations are more reliable than atomistic
ones; in this respect it must be noted that atomistic calculations
use formal charges, and therefore exaggerate the magnitude of the
Coulomb interactions. It should be remembered however that DFT
does not reproduce dispersion (London) interactions, which were
included in the atomistic calculations through r6 terms and could
be signiﬁcant in this type of oxides in which the polarizability of
both anions and cations is high. It would be interesting to assess
the inﬂuence of such dispersion interactions on the ﬁnal energy
balance, but this lies outside the scope of the present work.
Concerning the atomic positions that result after relaxation, the
observed Ce–O average distances for 6- and 7-coordinated Ce3+
and Ce4+ ions are similar to those reported above for single
vacancies, while for the 5-coordinated Ce3+ ions they are around
2.31 A
˚ . One interesting result of these calculations is that the sub-
surface O atom that is nearest neighbour to both surface vacancies
is pushed outwards, going through the outer Ce plane and ending
with a z coordinate z = 0.60 A
˚ , i.e. 0.19 A
˚ above this Ce plane (see
Fig. 4). In so doing, this O atom breaks the bond that it had with a
second-layer Ce ion. The driving force for this displacement is
probably connected with the surface electric dipole that appears
upon vacancy formation due to the net ﬂow of electronic density
from the outer O plane to the Ce plane immediately below; when a
vacancy pair is made the local dipole increases, producing an
increase in electrostatic energy that can be partially alleviated by
displacing outwards some negative charge. This can be achieved
with the mentioned movement of the sub-surface oxygen ion. An
alternative way of describing the effect is to consider that the
displacement helps to achieve a less uneven distribution of ligands
around the Ce ions which are immediate neighbours to the vacancy
pair. It would be interesting to verify whether such displaced
oxygen could display a distinct chemical reactivity in surface
processes.
Examination of DOS curves (Fig. 5) allows to assess the nature of
the electronic levels present in this vacancy pair situation. It can be
seen that again some occupied 4f levels appear in the band-gap,
well separated from the manifold of empty 4f levels. The positions
of these occupied levels in the gap depend again somewhat on the
coordination of the Ce3+ ions to which they belong, but in a more
complex way than what was observed for the single vacancy
defects; in fact, the level does not always appear to be lower for 7-
coordinated sites than for the other sites. The stronger structural
distortions caused by this larger and less symmetric defect is
probably at the origin of these variations. The result is a larger
overall width of the in-gap feature. It would be interesting to check
if experimental photoelectron spectra can detect this increase in
width of the in-gap features when the concentration of surface
vacancies increases. It is also noted in the DOS plots that a detached
state appears slightly above the valence band. This seems to be
Fig. 3. Density of states (DOS) plots obtained for the models of the perfect CeO2(1 1 1) surface (given in Fig. 1) and of several of the single-vacancy defects mentioned in Fig. 2.
In parts (b)–(d) majority and minority spin contributions are plotted respectively in the positive and negatives sides of the plots. Coloured curves indicate partial DOS
projected on speciﬁc atoms of the structure. In these and other DOS plots vertical blue lines are given as guide to the eye where considered helpful to better appreciate
positions and separations of several features in the plots. All in-gap features marked as Ce3+ are electron-ﬁlled, the large 4f manifold above them is empty. (For interpretation
of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of the article.)
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
319
related to the oxygen ion that was pushed up from the sub-surface
layer, since the contribution of this ion to the density of states of
this feature is found to be signiﬁcant, and again suggests a possibly
higher reactivity of it.
3.3. Vacancy triads
An even larger number of possible sub-conﬁgurations can
appear due to the different possible distributions of the six
Fig. 4. Four upper drawings: locations of Ce3+ ions for several of the energy-minimized structures found upon relaxation of pairs of anion vacancies on a CeO2(1 1 1) surface.
Coding and meaning of numbers is as in Fig. 2. Lower drawing: perspective side view of structure 2Vd, to better appreciate the sub-surface oxygen ion that is pushed outwards
in this type of defect. This oxygen is marked with a blue square in all the drawings. (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to
the web version of the article.)
Fig. 5. Density of states plots obtained for some of the vacancy pair sub-conﬁgurations displayed in Fig. 4.
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
320
electrons generated upon formation of three vacancies. As shown
in Fig. 6, where several of them are displayed, with the unit cell
used here it would be possible to distribute all these electrons in Ce
ions that are not nearest neighbour to any of the three vacancies if
these are arranged in a cluster; the six electrons could also be
distributed in the opposite way, i.e. with all of them on Ce ions
neighbour to the vacancies. In the cases in which 5-coordinated
Ce4+ ions appear the average Ce–O distance around them is 2.22 A
˚ .
None of these two situations appears to have the lowest energy, as
seen in that ﬁgure; but it can be remarked that now the sub-
conﬁguration with all Ce3+ ions in 7-coordinated sites (3Vc in
Fig. 6) has the highest energy among those examined, evidencing
that the preference of Ce3+ for one site or another depends on the
whole set of interactions that enter into play. Consequently a clear
rule for preferences in the location of Ce3+ ions is difﬁcult to ﬁnd,
although a preference for occupying with Ce3+ any 5-coordinated
Ce ions, already noticed for vacancy pairs, seems to be present here
also. In any case, again several closely located energy minima are
found, so that under real ﬁnite temperature conditions the
coexistence of a number of sub-conﬁgurations, and fast exchange
between them, cannot be excluded. Note that, with these large
vacancy complexes, even using a 12-fold surface supercell as done
here it is not possible to discard some effect of interactions
between these large defects that could inﬂuence the obtained
energy values.
The formation of these vacancy triads is again predicted by the
calculations to be unfavourable, as shown by the total energy
balance of the following process:
1V þ 2V ! 0V þ 3V
DE ¼ þ0:34 eV
(2)
In these triads the outwards displacement of one of the sub-
surface O ions, in particular that located at the centre of the defect,
is observed also (Fig. 6); its z coordinate is in this case higher,
typically around 0.15 A
˚ , i.e. the displacement is much larger than
for the two-vacancy complex. The explanation of this effect can be
given, as said above, on the basis of a compensation of the surface
dipole (that is larger in a three-vacancy defect) and/or of a
tendency to make more regular the coordination environment of
the Ce ions neighbour to the defect.
The nature of the electronic states that appear upon formation
of this vacancy complex can be analyzed through the DOS curves;
some of them, corresponding to a few signiﬁcant sub-conﬁgura-
tions, are displayed in Fig. 7. A number of distinct in-gap levels due
to discrete Ce 4f1 states are observed; in general, those associated
with 5-coordinated Ce ions appear lowest in energy, while those of
6- and 7-coordinated Ce ions are rather closer, with some tendency
to have lower energy in the latter case. The result is that a large
overall width appears when there is a heterogeneity of situations,
while if all Ce3+ ions lie in the same type of coordination (sub-
conﬁguration 3Vc) the width is much smaller. Again, this could
perhaps be experimentally examined with photoelectron spectro-
scopies. It is interesting to observe that the average position of
these levels (except in the case of the less stable sub-conﬁguration
3Vc) is located approximately 1.5 eV above the valence band edge,
i.e. at nearly the same energy as for single vacancies (see Fig. 3); the
highest 4f1 levels observed are at most only some 0.15 eV above
this position. This suggests that although this situation corre-
sponds to a more extensively reduced state of the surface (within
the limits studied here), its redox potential is nearly the same, i.e.
the excess electrons in it will not be transferred to external
molecules much more easily than from a less reduced state. On the
other hand, a detached state above the valence band is not
observed now, in spite of the fact that an outwards-displaced O ion
also appears in all these cases. Maybe the local asymmetry around
this ion is a determinant factor for producing this less stable
valence band state.
3.4. Anion vacancy-adsorbed oxygen species
The calculations show that after interaction of one oxygen
molecule with a single vacancy all Ce ions are in the Ce4+ formal
redox state and the total spin density is zero everywhere, implying
that two electrons are transferred to the molecule (whether this
happens in one or two steps is of no concern here) to form a
Fig. 6. Locations of Ce3+ ions for several of the energy-minimized structures found upon relaxation of a triad of anion vacancies on a CeO2(1 1 1) surface. Coding and meaning
of numbers is as in Fig. 4. (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of the article.)
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
321
diamagnetic O2
2 (peroxide) species; in the latter the interatomic
distance is d(O–O) = 1.44 A
˚ (Fig. 8, model 1VO2). As seen in the
ﬁgure, the O2
2 ion is coordinated asymmetrically, with its bond
oriented forming an angle of 368 with the surface plane. One of the
two O atoms in it lies close to the vacancy centre, but slightly above
the outer O atoms plane (its z coordinate is 0.14 A
˚ ) and somewhat
displaced towards two of the Ce ions nearby so that its distance to
them is around 2.42 A
˚ , while the other O atom, signiﬁcantly
outside the upper O plane of the surface, interacts with the third Ce
ion near the adsorption site with a distance d(O–Ce) = 2.30 A
˚ . The
adsorption energy is computed to be 2.10 eV if starting from the
vacancy sub-conﬁguration of lowest energy (1Va, displayed in
Fig. 2). All these observations agree with the results reported in
previous work [53], although in the latter the computed adsorption
energy was 1.76 eV; this difference may be related to the different
size of the unit cell used there (four atoms per atomic plane and
nine atomic planes in the slab, with three planes in ﬁxed atomic
positions) as well as the different calculation method (use of
ultrasoft pseudopotentials and U parameter referred to Wannier-
type functions rather than to atomic orbitals).
A superoxide species adsorbed on a single surface vacancy site
appears when the initial vacancy model is prepared in such a way
that it contains only one excess electron (in form of Ce3+), as is the
case for model 1VLa mentioned above. In this case, after O2
adsorption no Ce3+ ion remains, implying that the electron is
transferred to the molecule; the adsorption energy computed for
this process is 1.40 eV. The resulting O2
 species has an overall
geometry relatively similar to that of the peroxide species
described above. It lies in somewhat outer position so that its
distances to Ce ions are larger: one of its O atoms, located above the
outer oxygen plane (its z coordinate is +0.61 A
˚ ), interacts mainly
with two of the Ce ions neighbour to the vacancy, the O–Ce
distances being now respectively 2.58–2.75 A
˚ , while the other O
atom interacts with the third Ce ion at a distance of 2.53 A
˚ . These
longer distances reﬂect probably the smaller Coulomb attraction
between the Ce ions and the less charged dioxygen moiety. The
length of the O–O bond (again oblique to the surface plane, forming
with it an angle of 27.48) is now 1.34 A
˚ , shorter than that of the
O2
2 species as expected for a superoxide entity.
Close examination of the electron spin density distribution in
this paramagnetic state shows that it is centred largely on the O2

species; the projections of this spin density on the individual
atoms (the total of which amounts to 0.82 electrons; the rest is not
captured
by
the
projection
method)
indicate
overall
spin
populations of 0.325 and 0.45 electrons for the inner and outer
O atoms respectively. A large fraction of the rest lies on the Ce
atoms (mainly on their 4f orbitals) that interact with these O
atoms,
since
the
spin
populations
observed
on
them
are
respectively 0.017 electrons (for the pair of Ce atoms in contact
with the innermost oxygen) and 0.01 electrons (for the Ce atom in
contact with the outermost oxygen). This presence of some spin
density on the Ce 4f orbitals agrees with the signiﬁcant degree of
covalent interaction between Ce and superoxide species adsorbed
on it that has been invoked [2–4,54] to explain the unusual EPR g
values of O2
–Ce4+ species (in particular for the gx parameter, that
in contrast with most adsorbed superoxide radicals is in this case
Fig. 7. Density of states plots obtained for some of the vacancy triad sub-conﬁgurations displayed in Fig. 6.
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
322
signiﬁcantly higher than the free electron value ge). It should be
noted on the other hand that for the latter species, when formed
by adsorption of O2 on slightly reduced high surface area ceria, the
hyperﬁne structure observed when using
17O-labeled O2 [4]
indicates that the two O atoms in it are equivalent at least in the
time scale of the EPR measurement at 77 K or higher temperature.
This means that either the dioxygen moiety has a fast oscillation
movement which effectively averages the environment of its two
extremes, or that the complex described here formed on the anion
vacancy at the (1 1 1) surface of CeO2 is not an appropriate model
for the species observed by EPR. This complex could be, on the
contrary, a good model for the main species formed on surfaces
activated at higher temperature (up to 773 K), in which the same
isotope labelling does evidence the non-equivalence of both
oxygen atoms [4].
The examination of the DOS plots obtained for the two adsorbed
states described above (Fig. 9) shows the presence of discrete levels
within the band-gap due to the dioxygen moiety. For the peroxide
case 1VO2 (that is fully diamagnetic, so that the total, spin-
unpolarized result is shown) two doubly occupied levels appear,
corresponding to the two antibonding p* orbitals of the peroxide
ion; they are split by approximately 0.22 eV due to the interaction
with the surface. The fully occupied bonding p orbitals are clearly
much lower in energy. On the contrary, the antibonding s* orbital
must lie at much higher energy, as it is not discerned in the atom-
projected curves.
For the superoxide case (model 1VLaO2) the antibonding p*
orbitals can again be discerned in the DOS plots. Due to the
exchange interactions in this spin-polarized system the minority
spin components of these levels (the upper of which is empty, as
expected) appear at higher energy than the majority spin ones; in
fact the lower of these latter overlaps the valence band and
hybridizes with it leading to a large broadening of its features. The
splitting between the two p* levels (in the minority spin branch) is
0.26 eV, i.e. similar to that found for the peroxide case discussed
above; this reﬂects the similarity in the type of cations that
stabilize these species. Note that the energy at which the
mentioned empty level appears is much lower than that of the
4f1 levels that appear in the gap when Ce3+ is present. It is thus not
surprising that, as shown in this work, whenever two electrons are
associated to a vacancy defect the adsorption of O2 leads to full
transfer of both electrons and the formation of peroxide rather
than of superoxide species. This supports the above made
suggestion that the surface defects that experimentally produce
Fig. 8. Structures of dioxygen species adsorbed on several of the surface anion vacancy centres. 1VLaO2 is a superoxide (O2
) species, the others are peroxide (O2
2) species. Z-
direction and perspective side views are displayed for the cases of adsorption on single vacancy conﬁgurations. The dioxygen species are coloured dark grey; for other atoms,
colour coding is as in previous ﬁgures. In model 3VbO2 a blue square marks the O ion coming from the sub-surface plane that still remains near the outer Ce ion plane. (For
interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of the article.)
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
323
EPR-detectable O2
 species when O2 is adsorbed on activated high
surface area CeO2 [see Ref. [4] and references therein] are not
modelled adequately by the single or multiple vacancy structures
on CeO2(1 1 1) that are studied here. Maybe those species form on
other surface planes, or on edge or kink irregularities present on
the ceria nanoparticles.
The adsorption of O2 on vacancy pairs and triads was studied
also. It was found that in general peroxide species appeared,
accompanied by respectively two and four Ce3+ ions (i.e. two
electrons were transferred to the adsorbed molecule). Only in one
case (for one of the vacancy pair sub-conﬁgurations) the adsorbed
species evolved with breaking of the O–O bond and full reoxidation
of the surface defect to the 0V structure; this behaviour appeared
in this latter case probably due to some speciﬁc characteristic of
the initial atomic arrangement, with the O2 molecule above the
defect, chosen in the energy minimization. In all the remaining
cases (see Fig. 8 for a couple of typical examples) peroxide species
rather similar to that found upon adsorption on a single vacancy
(i.e. to the 1VO2 case) were found, occupying one of the initially
existing vacancies. The energies of adsorption on the 2V and 3V
complexes, computed from the lowest sub-conﬁgurations in each
case, are 2.34 and 2.24 eV respectively, somewhat higher than on
the single vacancy; this can be due to the higher interaction with
the neighbour Ce ions that is discussed below. The z coordinates (in
respect to the outer plane of O ions) of the O atoms closest to the
initial vacancy centre are approximately +0.24 A
˚ for both models
2VaO2 and 3VbO2. No spontaneous further transfer of electrons
from Ce3+ ions to the adsorbed species is observed in these
simulations, which is probably related to the fact that the s* orbital
of the molecule, to which the electrons of the 4f1 orbitals would
have to be transferred, lies higher in energy than these latter as
shown above. Presumably, only by elongating the O–O bond (as
may happen during thermal activation of molecular vibrations)
can the s* orbital be lowered in energy to the extent necessary to
make possible that transfer.
One noticeable difference is that the two O atoms of the
adsorbed species interact now more strongly than in the 1VO2 case
with one of the Ce ions closest to the initial vacancy, in particular
with a Ce ion that initially (before O2 adsorption) was 5-
coordinated and in the Ce3+ state, and has now become a Ce4+
ion. The average distances from this Ce ion to the two O atoms of
the peroxide species are now 2.47 and 2.27 A
˚ (for model 2VaO2) or
2.50 and 2.27 A
˚ (for model 3VbO2), while in the 1VO2 case they
were 2.62 and 2.30 A
˚ . Conversely the distance from the O atom
near the vacancy centre to the other two Ce ions increases; the
weakened interaction of this O atom with these Ce ions may
explain why its z coordinate is higher than in the 1VO2 case. Thus,
although the extent of electron transfer to the adsorbed species on
associated vacancies is very similar to that found on the single
vacancy (as shown by the population analysis obtained in the
results; data not shown), this species can probably be considered
to be more activated in the former case. Finally it is worth noting
that the sub-surface O ion that had been pushed outwards on
formation of the vacancy pair has returned to its sub-surface plane
Fig. 9. Density of states plots obtained for the adsorbed dioxygen species displayed in Fig. 8. In the case of model 1VLaO2 the vertical dotted line between the two minority spin
p* features marks the separation between ﬁlled and empty levels.
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
324
after O2 adsorption and formation of the peroxide species (case
2VaO2), as expected considering the partial return of the electron
density towards the outer plane, while for model 3VbO2, where
two neighbour vacancies still exist, this has occurred only partially,
and this O ion remains just 0.28 A
˚ below the outer Ce ion plane.
The examination of the DOS plots obtained for the species
adsorbed on vacancy pairs or triads (Fig. 9) shows again the peaks
above the valence band that are due to the p* orbitals of the
peroxide ion, and clearly above them the 4f1 levels of the
remaining Ce3+ ions. The splitting between the two p* orbitals
is now around 0.45 eV, signiﬁcantly larger than that found after
adsorption over the single vacancy; this agrees with the above-
mentioned higher interaction between the O2
2 species and one of
the neighbouring Ce4+ ions. The manifold of Ce 4f1 states is wider in
the 3VbO2 case, as corresponds to a more complex and irregular
defect.
4. Conclusions
The atomic and electronic structures and the energetics of
surface anion vacancy complexes formed at CeO2(1 1 1) surface,
and of dioxygen species adsorbed on them, have been analyzed
with quantum calculations at the DFT + U level of theory. The
possible existence of a number of non-equivalent different
(meta)stable locations for the resulting Ce3+ ions, accompanied
and stabilized by local coordination distortions (polaronic effect),
is evidenced by the calculations. Highly unsaturated (5-coordi-
nated) Ce ions stabilize more markedly the extra electrons, but the
preference of these for 6- or 7-coordinated Ce ions is less clear and
may depend on the interplay of different structural distortions. A
tendency to association of these vacancies, suggested by previous
works, is not justiﬁed by the present results, but it should be
recalled that the theory level used does not include dispersion
interactions, that might be signiﬁcant in this type of system which
has highly polarizable ions. Outwards displacement of sub-surface
O ions is shown to occur upon association of surface anion
vacancies, to compensate for the increased surface electric dipole.
Adsorption of O2 on these surface defects produces in general
diamagnetic peroxide (O2
2) species due to transfer of two
electrons to the molecule, except when only one electron is
available in which case paramagnetic superoxide (O2
) species
appear. This is explained on the basis of the relative energies of the
p* orbitals of the dioxygen species and the 4f1 levels of cerium,
clearly visualized with density of states plots. All these diatomic
species are stabilized by interaction with three Ce ions in
asymmetric conﬁgurations; the equivalence between the two O
atoms that has been experimentally observed with EPR spectro-
scopy in the case of some superoxide radicals adsorbed on ceria
requires therefore some other explanation, based e.g. on molecular
movement and/or different surface vacancy models. A higher
degree of electron transfer, that would be necessary for O–O bond
breaking, is not seen to occur here spontaneously; this is ascribed
to the rather high energy of the dioxygen s* orbital that must
receive additional electron density to complete the process. The
activation energy for this bond breaking remains to be determined,
and is the subject of an ongoing study.
Note added in proof
Very recent work (M. Veronica Ganduglia-Pirovano, Juarez L.F.
Da Silva and Joachim Sauer, Phys. Rev. Lett. in press) reports as well
that Ce(3+) may stabilize in different non-equivalent locations
around an anion vacancy at the ceria(1 1 1) surface, and that the
most stable location is a non-nerarest neighbour site.
Acknowledgements
Financial support from the Spanish National Research Plan
(project
CTQ2006-15600/BQU)
and
the
possibility
of
using
computing time at the MareNostrum and Finis Terrae parallel
computers provided respectively by the BSC and CESGA computing
centres are thankfully acknowledged. Thanks are given also to Dr.
V. Ganduglia-Pirovano for useful discussions and hints concerning
the polaronic effects.
References
[1] A. Trovarelli (Ed.), Catalysis by Ceria and Ceria-Containing Materials (Catalytic
Science Series), World Scientiﬁc-Imperial College Press, London, 2002.
[2] M. Che, J.F.J. Kibblewhite, A.J. Tench, M. Dufaux, C. Naccache, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday
Trans. I 69 (1973) 857.
[3] L. Mendelovici, H. Tzehoval, M. Steinberg, Appl. Surf. Sci. 17 (1983) 175.
[4] J. Soria, A. Martı
´nez-Arias, J.C. Conesa, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 91 (1995) 1669.
[5] M. Che, A.J. Tench, Adv. Catal. 32 (1983) 1.
[6] C. Binet, M. Daturi, J.-C. Lavalley, Catal. Today 50 (1999) 207.
[7] V.V. Pushkarev, V.I. Kovalchuk, J.L. d’Itri, J. Phys. Chem. B 108 (2004) 5341.
[8] J.C. Conesa, Surf. Sci. 339 (1995) 337.
[9] H. No
¨renberg, G.A.D. Briggs, Surf. Sci. 424 (1999) L352.
[10] Y. Namai, K.-I. Fukui, Y. Iwasawa, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 11666.
[11] F. Esch, S. Fabris, L. Zhou, T. Montini, C. Africh, P. Fornasiero, G. Comelli, R. Rosei,
Science 29 (2005) 5735.
[12] J.-L. Lu, H.-J. Gao, S. Shaikhutdinov, H.-J. Freund, Surf. Sci. 600 (2006) 5004.
[13] S. Gritschneder, M. Reichling, Nanotechnology 18 (2007) 044024.
[14] M.V. Ganduglia-Pirovano, A. Hofmann, J. Sauer, Surf. Sci. Rep. 62 (2007) 219.
[15] B. Herschend, M. Baudin, K. Hermansson, Surf. Sci. 599 (2005) 173.
[16] B. Herschend, M. Baudin, K. Hermansson, J. Chem. Phys. 126 (2007) 234706.
[17] C. Mu
¨ ller, C. Freysoldt, M. Baudin, K. Hermansson, Chem. Phys. 318 (2005) 180.
[18] N.V. Skorodumova, S.I. Simak, B.I. Lundqvist, I.A. Abrikosov, B. Johansson, Phys.
Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) 166601.
[19] Z. Yang, T.K. Woo, M. Baudin, K. Hermansson, J. Chem. Phys. 120 (2004) 7741.
[20] S. Fabris, S. de Gironcoli, S. Baroni, G. Vicario, G. Balducci, Phys. Rev. B 71 (2005),
041102(R).
[21] G. Kresse, P. Blaha, J.L.F. Da Silva, M. Veronica Ganduglia-Pirovano, Phys. Rev. B 72
(2005) 237101.
[22] S. Fabris, S. de Gironcoli, S. Baroni, G. Vicario, G. Balducci, Phys. Rev. B 72 (2005)
237102.
[23] J.L.F. Da Silva, M.V. Ganduglia-Pirovano, J. Sauer, V. Bayer, G. Kresse, Phys. Rev. B
75 (2007) 045121.
[24] P.J. Hay, R.L. Martin, J. Uddin, G.E. Scuseria, J. Chem. Phys. 125 (2006) 034712.
[25] S. Fabris, G. Vicario, G. Balducci, S. de Gironcoli, S. Baroni, J. Phys. Chem. B 109
(2005) 22860.
[26] M. Nolan, S. Grigoleit, D.C. Sayle, S.C. Parker, G.W. Watson, Surf. Sci. 576 (2005) 217.
[27] D.A. Andersson, S.I. Simak, B. Johansson, I.A. Abrikosov, N.V. Skorodumova, Phys.
Rev. B 75 (2007) 035109.
[28] M.B. Watkins, A.S. Foster, A.L. Shluger, J. Phys. Chem. C 111 (2007) 15337.
[29] A. Beste, D.R. Mullins, S.H. Overbury, R.J. Harrison, Surf. Sci. 602 (2008) 162.
[30] C.W.M. Castleton, J. Kullgren, K. Hermansson, J. Chem. Phys. 127 (2007) 244704.
[31] S.F. Li, H. Lu, P. Li, Z. Yang, Z.X. Guo, J. Chem. Phys. 128 (2008) 164718.
[32] C. Loschen, J. Carrasco, K.M. Neyman, F. Illas, Phys. Rev. B 75 (2007) 035115.
[33] L. Petit, A. Svane, Z. Szotek, W.M. Temmerman, Phys. Rev. B 72 (2005) 205118.
[34] A. Stroppa, G. Kresse, New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 063020.
[35] A. Walsh, J.L.F. Da Silva, S.-H. Wei, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 (2008) 256401.
[36] S. Kumar, P.K. Schelling, J. Chem. Phys. 125 (2006) 204704.
[37] N.V. Skorodumova, M. Baudin, K. Hermansson, Phys. Rev. B 69 (2004), 075401.
[38] N. Ichikawa, S. Sato, R. Takahashi, T. Sodesawa, H. Fujita, T. Atoguchi, A. Shiga, J.
Catal. 239 (2006) 13.
[39] V. Shapovalov, H. Metiu, J. Catal. 245 (2007) 205.
[40] G. Kresse, J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B 47 (1993) R558.
[41] G. Kresse, J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B 49 (1994) 14251.
[42] G. Kresse, J. Furthmu
¨ller, Comput. Mater. Sci. 6 (1996) 15.
[43] G. Kresse, J. Furthmu
¨ller, Phys. Rev. B 54 (1996) 11169.
[44] P.E. Blo
¨chl, Phys. Rev. B 50 (1994) 17953.
[45] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, Phys. Rev. B 59 (1999) 1758, All PAW potentials used, from
the VASP library, are obtained by the method explained in this reference.
[46] J.P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 (1996) 3865;
J.P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78 (1997) 1396.
[47] S.L. Dudarev, G.A. Botton, S.Y. Savrasov, C.J. Humphreys, A.P. Sutton, Phys. Rev. B
57 (1998) 1505.
[48] M. Huang, S. Fabris, J. Phys. Chem. C 112 (2008) 8643.
[49] J. Zhang, R.B. von Dreele, L. Eyring, J. Solid State Chem. 104 (1993) 21.
[50] H.L. Tuller, A.S. Nowick, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 38 (1977) 859.
[51] E. Wuilloud, B. Delley, W.-D. Schneider, Y. Baier, Phys. Rev. Lett. 53 (1984) 202.
[52] J.C. Conesa, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 8840.
[53] M. Huang, S. Fabris, Phys. Rev. B 75 (2007) 081404.
[54] X. Zhang, K.J. Klabunde, Inorg. Chem. 31 (1992) 1706.
J.C. Conesa / Catalysis Today 143 (2009) 315–325
325
