Oxygen vacancy clusters on ceria: Decisive role of cerium f electrons
Changjun Zhang,1 Angelos Michaelides,2 David A. King,1 and Stephen J. Jenkins1,*
1Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensﬁeld Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom
2Department of Chemistry, Materials Simulation Laboratory, and London Centre for Nanotechnology, University College London,
London WC1H 0AH, United Kingdom
Received 27 November 2008; published 20 February 2009
Defects such as oxygen vacancies dominate the electronic and chemical properties of ceria. However,
fundamental understanding of such defects, especially clusters of vacancies, is sparse. In this work, we use
density-functional theory with the addition of the Hubbard U term to investigate various oxygen vacancies,
including the vacancy monomer, dimer, trimer, and tetramer, in which subsurface vacancies can also be
involved. We show that the individual surface and subsurface vacancies have very similar stabilities; the
vacancy dimer consisting of two surface vacancies, which is not reported experimentally, is stable in theory;
between the two vacancy trimers observed in experiments, the triangular surface vacancy cluster is more stable
than the double linear surface vacancy cluster containing a subsurface vacancy, which agrees with some
experiments but disagrees with some others; and the linear vacancy tetramer emerges as the most stable among
the possible tetramers containing subsurface vacancies, although it is less stable than those containing no
subsurface vacancies. These ﬁndings are rationalized in terms of the electronic change upon the removal of
oxygen, namely, the localization of resulting excess electrons on Ce f orbitals. We identify a correlation
between the energy levels of the occupied f states of reduced Ce ions and their coordination numbers, which
proves pivotal in interpreting formation energy and stability of various vacancies. Comparisons are made with
experiments and apparent discrepancies are discussed. Results for gold adsorption on the vacancy clusters are
presented, and the implications these have in catalysis are brieﬂy discussed.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.79.075433
PACS numbers: 73.20.At, 61.72.jd, 71.15.Nc, 71.15.Mb
I. INTRODUCTION
The rare-earth oxide ceria CeO2 has recently emerged as
one of the most interesting oxides both technologically and
scientiﬁcally. Materials based on CeO2 are ﬁnding novel use
in a variety of processes such as automotive exhaust cataly-
sis, water-gas shift WGS reactions, fuel cells, and produc-
tion and puriﬁcation of hydrogen.1,2 These applications of
CeO2 are largely attributed to its remarkable oxygen-storage
capability, i.e., the ability to undergo rapid redox cycles by
releasing and storing oxygen.3 Consequently, oxygen va-
cancy defects can play a central role: surface lattice oxygen
may act as an oxidant for adsorbates, thus creating oxygen
vacancies i.e., Mars–van Krevelen mechanism4; and vacan-
cies may serve as binding sites for catalytically active spe-
cies, thus promoting activity of the catalyst e.g., in the WGS
reaction catalyzed by Au/CeO2.5,6 To elucidate the roles of
ceria played in those applications, it is therefore of great
importance to understand the nature of oxygen vacancies.
With scanning tunneling microscopy STM and dynamic
force microscopy DFM, structures of O vacancies at the
reduced CeO2111 surfaces have been investigated.7–12 In
the ﬁrst atomically resolved images produced by Nörenberg
and Briggs,7 oxygen vacancy clusters denoted as VCs here-
after were observed at the topmost layer of the surface, and
the dominant type of VC was of triangular shape containing
three O vacancies, schematically shown in Fig. 1. In contrast,
Namai et al.9 suggested that linear alignments of O vacan-
cies, consisting of two or more vacancies, are the major mul-
tiple defects, which appear in three different orientations re-
ﬂecting the threefold symmetry of the 111 surface. The
discrepancy between these experiments was attributed to
“different sample treatments.”9 More detailed structures of O
vacancies were recently shown by Esch et al.11 With STM
and STM simulations, they found that for the slightly re-
duced CeO2111 surface, both SV and SSV were present
with similar concentrations. Upon prolonged annealing, VCs
appeared, with linear surface vacancy clusters LSVCs be-
ing the most dominant and triangular SVTs being the next
most abundant. The authors also proposed that VCs with
more than two vacancies exclusively expose reduced Ce ions
Fig. 1, and that to satisfy this interesting trend, each LSVC
must incorporate a subsurface oxygen vacancy. In a more
recent DFM study by Torbrügge et al.,12 explicit evidence of
isolated SSV buried at the third layer of the CeO2111 sur-
face was found. Furthermore, SSVs themselves exhibited in-
teresting structures: at high concentrations, SSVs appear in
ordered arrays with a tendency to form linear patterns, leav-
ing defect-free spacing of two lattice constants in between.
The discovery of VCs in ceria is of great signiﬁcance. As
pointed out by Campbell and Peden,13 the groups of exposed
Ce3+ ions in the VCs would become a potentially potent
surface site for catalysis, as adsorbed gases or reaction inter-
mediates could interact simultaneously with several Ce3+
ions. Such VCs may even direct adsorbed metal nanopar-
ticles into speciﬁc shapes that may have advantages in ca-
talysis. However, images of VCs, particularly the shapes of
VCs, are not consistent in previous studies.7,9,11 There is also
a notable lack of theoretical understanding of VCs in ceria,
and most studies have so far concentrated on an isolated
vacancy.14–16 In the present work, we have therefore under-
taken a detailed theoretical investigation on a series of oxy-
gen vacancies on CeO2111, including vacancy monomer,
dimer, trimer, and tetramer. We focus here on two fundamen-
tal aspects: i the energy required to form the oxygen defects
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
1098-0121/2009/797/07543311
©2009 The American Physical Society
075433-1
and ii the electronic structure of the reduced systems, as
highlighted in a recent review paper on O vacancies in
transition-metal and rare-earth oxides.17 In particular, owing
to the strong fCe electron localization effect, reduction of
the ceria surface leads to a change of valence from Ce4+ to
Ce3+, which differs from situations on many other oxide sur-
faces where either F center or electron delocalization would
occur upon reduction.17 This rather unique electron localiza-
tion feature therefore holds the key to understanding the in-
triguing nature of the vacancies on ceria and their implica-
tions in catalysis.
The present paper is organized as follows. Calculation
details are given in Sec. II. In Sec. III, we introduce all types
of vacancies considered and report vacancy formation ener-
gies. Following that, we discuss electronic structures and il-
lustrate the physical origin of the relative stabilities of those
vacancies in Sec. IV. In Sec. V, we make comparisons with
available experimental data and discuss the discrepancies
that have been found. In Sec. VI, we present some results of
Au adsorption on VCs which are likely to be relevant to and
have implications for catalysis. Our conclusions are summa-
rized in Sec. VII.
II. METHODOLOGY
We carry out spin-polarized calculations within the
density-functional theory DFT framework, as implemented
in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Program VASP, a plane-
wave
pseudopotential
DFT
package.18–20
We
use
the
projector-augmented wave method to describe the effect of
the core electrons on the valence electrons in the system.21,22
The Ce 5s, 5p, 5d, 4f, and 6s electrons; the O 2s and 2p
electrons; and the Au 5d, 6s, and 6p electrons are treated as
valence electrons. For the electron exchange-correlation
functional the generalized gradient approximation GGA of
Perdew23 and Wang is used.
We choose the DFT+U methodology,24,25 which has
proven to be essential in descriptions of reduced ceria
systems.17 In this approach, the Hubbard parameter U is in-
troduced to account for the strong on-site Coulomb repulsion
among the localized Ce 4f electrons. In practice, however,
the choice of this parameter is often empirical, which is to
say that the U value is adjusted to reproduce properties
known from experiments. There are a host of papers devoted
to the discussion of appropriate U values.14,15,26–30 In study-
ing reduced ceria, Nolan et al.14 suggested U=5.0 eV for
GGA+U, as for U5.0 eV signiﬁcant delocalization still
persists. Fabris et al.15 derived U=5.3 eV for local-density
approximation LDA and U=4.5 eV for GGA+U when us-
ing the maximally localized Wannier orbital as the projector
function. Andersson et al.29 showed that U6.0 eV for
LDA+U and U5.0 eV for GGA+U provide a consistent
description of pure CeO2 and Ce2O3 plus vacancies in CeO2.
Castleton et al.30 also suggested that the best overall choice
is U6.0 eV for LDA+U and U5.5 eV for GGA+U.
We note that although suggestions of U values vary, the op-
timal ones appear to be around 5.0 eV for GGA+U and 6.0
eV for LDA+U. We therefore use GGA+U U=5.0 eV in
the current work. We also carry out tests with GGA+U
U=4.5 or 5.5 eV and LDA+U U=6.0 eV, and our con-
clusions are not qualitatively affected by these choices.
The 111 face of ceria features termination of stoichio-
metric O-Ce-O trilayers stacked along the 111 direction
Fig. 1, and is the thermodynamically most stable facet. In
order to accommodate VCs as well as to minimize the inter-
action between VCs, a large 44 unit cell is chosen. In
some cases e.g., vacancy tetramers, tests with an even
larger 46 cell are performed, and no signiﬁcant differ-
ence is found: the formation energy of vacancy tetramers
differs by only 0.03 eV from the calculations in the two cells.
The slabs employed in our calculations have nine atomic
layers, which is a common choice in studying ceria
surfaces.14–16 The vacuum regions for the slabs are generally
around 12 Å. During structure optimizations atoms are al-
lowed to relax until the forces are smaller than 0.03 eV/Å,
except those in the lowest three layers that are constrained to
the equilibrium positions calculated for the defect-free super-
cell. We note that in the cases involving subsurface O vacan-
cies and the reduction of inner Ce ions, further relaxation of
the inner atoms might be necessary. Therefore, calculations
are also performed with slabs containing 12 atomic layers
including up to 192 atoms for vacancy dimers and trimers.
However, we ﬁnd that characteristic electronic features, va-
FIG. 1. Color online a Examples of a surface vacancy SV,
a subsurface vacancy SSV, a vacancy dimer, a triangular surface
vacancy trimer SVT, a double linear surface vacancy cluster
DLSVC, and a linear vacancy tetramer at the CeO2111 surface.
We adopt the same abbreviations as used in Ref. 11. The reduced
Ce ions and the O ions around them are highlighted in green and
blue, respectively, in the online version of this article; in black and
white print, those refer to the Ce ions exposed to the vacancies and
the rim O atoms around the vacancies, respectively. Note that the
spin arrangement for the dimer proposed in Ref. 11 is likely to be
incorrect, as discussed in Sec. IV B. b The color coding for atoms
at different layers is depicted.
ZHANG et al.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-2
cancy formation energies, and relative stabilities are very
similar between calculations from the 9-layer and the 12-
layer slabs. To reduce the computational cost, we therefore
use the 9-layer slab for the calculations of vacancy tetramers.
The sampling of the Brillouin zone was performed with a
221 Monkhorst-Pack k-point mesh. The number of
plane waves, used to expand the Kohn-Sham orbitals, is con-
trolled by a cutoff energy of 400 eV, which is sufﬁcient to
obtain well-converged results.31
It is well known that upon creation of an O vacancy, the
two excess electrons left behind by the removed O would
localize on the two neighboring Ce ions, leading to the re-
duction of Ce4+ to Ce3+.17 As will be shown shortly, the
location of the Ce3+ ions is vital in interpreting the stability
of reduced surfaces. Thus, for each vacancy or VC, we
have examined different starting spin conﬁgurations i.e., dif-
ferent locations of Ce3+, in order to identify the most stable
conﬁguration. We ﬁnd that the energy differences between
different spin conﬁgurations obtained for each vacancy or
VC are almost negligible. For example, for the surface with
SV, both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic ground states
are found,15,32 but the antiferromagnetic arrangement is only
0.02 eV more stable. For the surface with SSV, the antifer-
romagnetic state is marginally more stable by 0.01 eV than
the ferromagnetic one. Therefore, we report below only the
most stable conﬁgurations, without overinterpreting the
alignment of neighboring spins.
III. VARIOUS VACANCIES AND VACANCY FORMATION
ENERGIES
We ﬁrst consider single-oxygen vacancies by removing
either a topmost surface O atom or a subsurface O atom at
the third layer from the stoichiometric surface, as shown in
Fig. 2. Also shown are electron densities of the spin states
i.e., the occupied f states of Ce3+ ions, which will be de-
tailed in Sec. IV. To illustrate stability of these vacancies, we
list in Table I the formation energy per vacancy Ev
a,
FIG. 2. Color online a The
electron densities of the gap states
green and yellow areas in the on-
line version of this article or the
dark areas around Ce atoms in the
black and white print, which are
localized on the two Ce ions
neighboring the SV and SSV. The
color coding of the atoms is the
same as in Fig. 1. Two different
Ce neighbors for SSV are indi-
cated. b The spin-resolved total
density of states DOS, which are
calculated with a smearing width
of 0.04 eV. The Fermi levels of
each system are set to zero. For
comparison, the DOS of the sur-
face with a bulk vacancy, deﬁned
in the text, is also included. For
best viewing, the DOS corre-
sponding to the f states at the
band gaps is multiplied by a factor
of 5 in order to allow the features
to be more clearly seen.
OXYGEN VACANCY CLUSTERS ON CERIA: DECISIVE…
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-3
Ev
a =Eslab
n
−Eslab
stoi + n
2EO2	/n,
1
where Eslab
n , Eslab
stoi, and EO2 are energies of a surface with n O
vacancies, the perfect stoichiometric surface, and an O2 mol-
ecule, respectively. As can be seen, the two reduced surfaces
have similar energies: the surface with SSV is slightly more
stable by 0.06 eV than that with SV. We note that previous
GGA+U calculation also slightly preferred SSV to SV by
0.26 or 0.14 eV, but previous LDA+U calculation predicted
SV to be more stable by 0.03 or 0.15 eV, when using the
atomic orbitals or the localized Wannier orbitals as the pro-
jector functions, respectively, in the expression of the U
term.15 Although the relative stability of these defects ap-
pears to depend on the methodology, we consider that the
energy differences are insigniﬁcant since the vacancy forma-
tion energy is large 
2.2 eV in Table I. Moreover, the
similar energies of the two defects calculated in the present
work agree with the experiment ﬁnding that SVs and SSVs
have
similar
concentrations
on
the
slightly
reduced
surfaces.11
There are in principle two possible dimer vacancies Fig.
3, which could consist of either one SV plus one SSV
dimer I or two SVs dimer II, although Esch et al.11
claimed dimer I to be the only vacancy dimer that has been
observed. Our calculations ﬁnd that both dimers I and II are
stable, with the former being 0.05 eV lower in energy than
the latter, as can be seen from Table I. In addition to Ev
a, we
also list in Table I the energy for the nth vacancy formation
Ev
n, given by
Ev
n = Eslab
n
−Eslab
n−1 + 1
2EO2,
2
where Eslab
n
and Eslab
n−1 are the energies of surfaces with n and
n−1 O vacancies. With respect to the most stable single va-
cancy i.e., SSV, we calculate the formation energies for the
second vacancy Ev
2 to be 2.53 and 2.58 eV for dimers I
and II, respectively, which are somewhat higher than Ev
1.
Moving to the vacancy trimer, we investigate the triangu-
lar SVT and the DLSVC,7–11 both of which were observed in
experiments, although conclusions vary as to which of these
is dominant. As shown in Fig. 4, SVT contains three surface
vacancies, whereas DLSVC contains two surface vacancies
and one subsurface vacancy. A common feature of the two
VCs is that both are exposed to six Ce neighbors, which are
just enough to accommodate the six excess electrons left
behind by the three released O atoms. Our calculations show
that SVT is 0.97 eV more stable than DLSVC: with respect
to the most stable dimer i.e., dimer I, the energies in form-
ing the third O vacancy in SVT and DLSVC are 2.30 and
3.28 eV, respectively. This result agrees with the experiment
of Nörenberg and Briggs,7 who stated that the defects ﬁrst
appear as triangular ones and form linear defects only at
higher temperatures, but disagree with experiments of Namai
et al.9 and Esch et al.,11 who stated that the linear defects are
the main type.
The vacancy tetramers are created by removing a further
O atom from either DLSVC or SVT. Starting from DLSVC,
we can create three distinct yet stable vacancy tetramers by
removing one of the following O atoms, i.e., OI, OII, and OIII
Fig. 4, which are neighboring a sixfold, a ﬁvefold, and a
fourfold Ce3+ ion, respectively.33 The resultant tetramers are
denoted as tetramers I, II, and III in Fig. 5. Starting from
trimer SVT, we can create two more tetramers by removing a
surface O neighboring a ﬁvefold Ce3+ or a surface O neigh-
boring a sixfold Ce3+, which are denoted as tetramers IV and
V, respectively, in Fig. 6. In each of tetramers I–V, the two
excess electrons left behind by the newly released O would
ﬁnd two adjacent Ce ions, so the trend that the VCs exclu-
sively expose Ce3+ ions is preserved.
From values of Ev
a in Table I, tetramers IV and V are
clearly more stable by at least 0.9 eV than tetramers I–III,
i.e., analogous to the relative stability between trimer SVT
and DLSVC. With respect to the most stable trimer i.e.,
SVT, the formation energies of the fourth O vacancy Ev
4
in tetramers IV and V are 
2.3 eV, which is close to Ev
3
for trimer SVT or Ev
1 for monomers. The values of Ev
4 in
tetramers I–III would obviously be much higher if the same
reference were used. Instead, we calculate Ev
4 in tetramers
I–III with respect to DLSVC, and summarize them in Table
I. Interestingly, the value of this redeﬁned Ev
4 for tetramer I,
which has a linear shape, is also close to Ev
3 for trimer SVT
or Ev
1 for monomers. The implications of this result will be
discussed in Sec. V.
IV. ELECTRONIC STRUCTURE
A. Vacancy monomer
The similar stabilities of SV and SSV can be ascribed to
their similar electronic structures. Figure 2 shows the DOSs
for the two surfaces the solid and the short-dashed curves in
the bottom panel of Fig. 2. In both cases, the DOS features
an occupied band near the Fermi level EF, which is the
so-called gap state derived from the reduction of Ce4+ to
Ce3+. From the electron-density plots of the gap states the
TABLE I. The averaged vacancy formation energy Ev
a and
the formation energy of the nth vacancy Ev
n in parentheses. Both
energies in eV are deﬁned in the text. As also stated in the text,
Ev
4 for tetramers I–III are calculated with respect to trimer DLSVC
and those for tetramers IV and V are calculated with respect to
trimer SVT. The structures of VCs are shown in Figs. 2–6.
Ev
a Ev
1
Ev
a Ev
2
Ev
a Ev
3
Ev
a Ev
4
Monomer SV
2.23 2.23
Monomer SSV
2.17 2.17
Dimer I
2.35 2.53
Dimer II
2.38 2.58
Trimer SVT
2.25 2.30
Trimer DLSVC
2.58 3.27
Tetramer I
2.59 2.34
Tetramer II
2.69 2.71
Tetramer III
2.72 2.82
Tetramer IV
2.35 2.33
Tetramer V
2.34 2.32
ZHANG et al.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-4
top parts of Fig. 2, regardless of whether the O vacancy is
SV or SSV, the two excess electrons localize on the same
two second-layer Ce ions. Hence, the DOSs of the two sur-
faces become almost indistinguishable, which has also been
shown in a previous study.15
A question may arise in the case of SSV: why do the
excess electrons populate the Ce ions at the outer second
layer rather than that at the inner ﬁfth layer indicated in Fig.
2 which also neighbors SSV? We consider that the answer
to the question lies in a simple fact: the ﬁfth-layer Ce is
sevenfold and the second-layer Ce is sixfold. Because the
sevenfold Ce has more O neighbors, its reduction i.e., re-
ceiving electrons would induce a larger electrostatic repul-
sion with its O neighbors and consequently weaken the ionic
bonding between them to a larger extent than the reduction
of the sixfold Ce would do. To demonstrate this idea, we
create an O vacancy at the ﬁfth layer i.e., a vacancy that
might be considered as lying in the bulk, where the Ce ions
neighboring the vacancy, all being sevenfold, would have to
accommodate the excess electrons left behind by the released
O atom. As can be seen from the DOS the long-dashed red
curve, the energies of the occupied f states of the sevenfold
Ce3+ are indeed higher than those of the sixfold one. More-
over, the O 2p states also appear at higher energies than
those for SV or SSV, clearly indicating the more weakened
ionic bonding between O and Ce for the surface with the
bulk vacancy. Hence, it is not surprising that the surface with
the “bulk” vacancy is much less stable by 1.51 eV than that
with SV or SSV.
B. Vacancy dimer
We ﬁrst comment on an electronic model proposed previ-
ously for dimer I shown in Fig. 1,11 in which the four
excess electrons reduce four Ce4+ to Ce3+ highlighted in
green for a dimer. We note that this model includes an inner
Ce3+ at the ﬁfth layer, whereas an outer Ce ion at the second
layer neighboring the defect, and available to accept elec-
FIG. 3. Color online a The
electron
densities
of
the
gap
states, which are localized on the
four Ce ions neighboring the va-
cancy dimers I and II. The coor-
dination of each reduced Ce ion is
shown. b The total DOSs and
the
Ce 4f
partial
densities
of
states PDOSs for the surfaces
containing these dimers, the latter
of which are rescaled so that the
features can be seen more clearly.
OXYGEN VACANCY CLUSTERS ON CERIA: DECISIVE…
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-5
trons remains Ce4+, and that no calculation detail was given
for the dimer. This electronic arrangement is surprising be-
cause, as we showed in Sec. IV A, electrons would tend to
populate the lesser coordinated outer Ce ion. Indeed, such an
electronic structure has not been found in our study: even if
we started a calculation with the initial spins being assigned
exactly the same as proposed previously, the spin on the
ﬁfth-layer Ce would relocate onto the second-layer Ce. In the
stable structure of dimer I, all four Ce3+ ions locate at the
second layer, as illustrated in Fig. 3.
It is interesting to note that the four Ce3+ ions for dimer I
include two ﬁvefold and two sixfold ones. Therefore, we also
plot in Fig. 3 the PDOS for the 4f states of the four ions, in
addition to the total DOS. The PDOS reveals that the occu-
pied f states of the two ﬁvefold Ce3+ the blue curves are
lower in energy than those of the two sixfold Ce3+ the red
curves. This feature, along with the relative energy levels of
the occupied f states of the sevenfold and sixfold Ce3+ ob-
served in Sec. IV A, suggests a correlation between the co-
ordination numbers of Ce3+ ions nCe and the energies of
their occupied f states ef: the larger nCe is, the higher ef
would be. Another point worthy of noting is the splitting of
ef for the two sixfold Ce3+, which is apparently due to their
different local geometries: one has two surface O neighbors
and the other has three.
For dimer II, the four excess electrons localize on one
ﬁvefold Ce and three sixfold Ce ions. Again, the correlation
between nCe and ef exists, albeit less clearly the PDOS in
the bottom panel: ef of the ﬁvefold Ce is close to that of
some sixfold Ce, but ef of another sixfold Ce denoted as Ceh
in Fig. 3 is relatively high. These features of the ﬁvefold Ce
and Ceh can be also associated with their local geometries,
most notably, a subsurface O neighbor denoted as Osub in
Fig. 3, which itself also neighbors the two vacancies and an
FIG. 4. Color online a The
electron
densities
of
the
gap
states, which are localized on the
six Ce ions neighboring the va-
cancy trimers SVT and DLSVC.
b The total DOS and the Ce 4f
partial DOS for the surfaces con-
taining these tetramers.
ZHANG et al.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-6
unreduced Ce4+ ion. Upon the formation of dimer II, Osub
exhibits a 0.65 Å upward shift with respect to the surface
plane from its original position at the stoichiometric surface,
which arises from the repulsion from its two Ce3+ neighbors
i.e., the ﬁvefold Ce and Ceh. Moreover, Osub also has a
0.30 Å shift, away from the two Ce3+ neighbors, toward the
unreduced Ce4+ neighbor, because the Ce4+ is undercoordi-
nated. As a result of these displacements, the distances be-
tween Osub and the two Ce3+ neighbors are signiﬁcantly
larger 2.48 and 2.53 Å compared to 2.37 Å at the stoichi-
ometric surface, suggesting that the ionic bonding between
them is weakened, and consequently ef of the ﬁvefold Ce3+
and Ceh appear at relatively higher energies.
We note that in the case of SV or SSV, the displacements
of those O atoms adjacent to the vacancy are relatively small
generally less than 0.2 Å, compared to those in vacancy
dimers. This is because in the latter, more Ce ions are re-
duced and larger electrostatic repulsions are generated. This
result is consistent with the slightly higher ef of the sixfold
Ce3+ ion for dimers than that for monomers, which also ex-
plains why the vacancy dimers are less stable than the mono-
mers.
C. Vacancy trimer
Taking a glance at the distribution of the spin states for
SVT and DLSVC Fig. 4, one can immediately see that the
presence of the sevenfold Ce3+ in the latter, which has high-
energy occupied f states, is the reason it is the less stable of
the two trimers. Also analogous to the DOS for a bulk va-
cancy plotted in Fig. 2, the O 2p states for DLSVC appear at
slightly higher energies than that for SVT, indicating the
more weakened bonding in the former. Hence, even though
the low-energy f states i.e., a fourfold Ce3+ exist for
DLSVC, the overall effect favors SVT.
The correlation between nCe and ef is also valid for both
trimers, although in the case of DLSVC, ef of the ﬁvefold
Ce3+ are very close to those of the sixfold Ce3+. Other inter-
esting details can also be found when comparing PDOS for
SVT and those for dimer I or II: ef of the ﬁve- and sixfold
Ce3+ for the dimers are generally higher than those for the
trimer. We ascribe this result to the fact that vacancy dimer is
an exception to the general trend that VCs expose only Ce3+
since a ﬁfth-layer Ce for dimer I and a second-layer Ce for
dimer II, both exposed to the defect, are characteristic of
Ce4+. Because the Ce4+ exposed to the defect is undercoor-
dinated, it would pull neighboring O toward it to compensate
for the loss of the ionic bonding, which would however oc-
Tetramer I
Tetramer II
Tetramer III
7-fold
6-fold
4-fold
5-fold
6-fold
6-fold
5-fold
5-fold
7-fold
6-fold
3-fold
6-fold
6-fold
6-fold
5-fold
5-fold
6-fold
7-fold
6-fold
4-fold
6-fold
5-fold
4-fold
6-fold
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
DOS (arb. unit)
tetramer I
tetramer II
tetramer III
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
PDOS (arb. unit)
7-fold
6-fold
5-fold
4-fold
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
PDOS (arb. unit)
7-fold
6-fold
5-fold
4-fold
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
Energy (eV)
PDOS (arb. unit)
7-fold
6-fold
5-fold
3-fold
tetramer I
tetramer II
tetramer III
(a)
(b)
FIG. 5. Color online a The electron densities of the gap
states, which are localized on the eight Ce ions neighboring the
vacancy tetramers I–III containing subsurface vacancies. For best
viewing, tetramer II is shown in a periodic image. b The total
DOSs and the Ce 4f partial DOSs for the surfaces containing these
tetramers.
Tetramer IV
Tetramer V
FIG. 6. Color online Vacancy tetramers IV and V, which can
be considered as direct derivatives of SVT and contain no subsur-
face vacancies. The spin states are shown in green and yellow.
OXYGEN VACANCY CLUSTERS ON CERIA: DECISIVE…
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-7
cur at the expense of weakening other ionic bonding between
Ce3+ and adjacent O ions, as we discussed in Sec. IV B. We
should also mention that the higher energies of ef of the ﬁve-
and sixfold Ce3+ for dimer I or II than those for trimer SVT
are consistent with the larger Ev
2 calculated for the dimers
than Ev
3 calculated for trimer SVT Table I.
D. Vacancy tetramer
Tetramers IV and V Fig. 6 are more stable than tetram-
ers I–III Fig. 5, which is apparently due to the absence of
the high ef of the sevenfold Ce3+ in the former. Thus, we
omit further electronic discussion for tetramers IV and V.
Instead, we focus on the relative stability for the three tet-
ramers containing subsurface vacancies i.e., III or III,
which could also be rationalized from the correlation be-
tween nCe and ef of the reduced Ce ions albeit not always
evident. Due to different local geometries, some Ce3+ ions
with same nCe may not necessarily have the same ef and
some Ce3+ ions with different nCe may have very similar ef,
as we have already seen in Secs. IV A–IV C.
Taking tetramers I and III Fig. 5a as examples, the
Ce3+ ions for the former contain one sevenfold, three sixfold,
three ﬁvefold, and one fourfold ion and those for the latter
contain one sevenfold, four sixfold, two ﬁvefold, and one
threefold ion. Thus, it is difﬁcult to judge the relative stabili-
ties based solely on nCe. However, a close examination of ef
in the PDOS Fig. 5b reveals that ef of the threefold Ce3+
for tetramer III does not lie at a noticeably lower energy than
that of the fourfold Ce3+ ion for tetramer I as one might
expect, but coincidentally at almost the same energy level;
ef of the sevenfold Ce3+ in tetramer III are not the same as
that of the sevenfold Ce3+ in tetramer I as one might ex-
pect, but somewhat higher; and ef of the sixfold and ﬁvefold
Ce3+ in tetramer III are also slightly higher than those of the
corresponding states in tetramer I. Clearly, these features il-
lustrate why tetramer III is less stable than tetramer I. Fur-
thermore, we consider that the generally higher energies of
those f states for tetramer III originate from the more signiﬁ-
cant electrostatic interactions occurring for tetramer III than
for tetramer I, which are evidenced by the larger geometrical
changes upon the creation of the fourth vacancy in the
former. For tetramer III, the newly formed threefold Ce3+
originally the fourfold in DLSVC moves 0.56 Å away
from the fourth O vacancy, due to the repulsion from the two
newly formed sixfold Ce3+ ions mediated via the O atoms in
between the threefold and the sixfold ions. Meanwhile, the
displacement of the threefold ion also pushes away other
neighboring Ce3+ ions, notably, the sevenfold ion by 0.06 Å.
For tetramer I, on the other hand, the repulsion, which starts
between the two newly formed sixfold Ce ions and one ad-
jacent ﬁvefold Ce ion originally a sixfold, is less signiﬁ-
cant: the largest displacement is for the newly formed ﬁve-
fold Ce, i.e., 0.20 Å away from the two sixfold ones
compared to its position before the creation of the fourth
vacancy. Moreover, the displacement of the sevenfold ion is
fairly small 0.02 Å with respect to its position before the
creation of the fourth vacancy.
We note from above that the larger atomic displacement
always occurs to the lesser coordinated Ce. This is because a
Ce with a smaller nCe is actually more charged than that with
a larger nCe. Therefore, a larger electrostatic interaction be-
tween the Ce with the smaller nCe and its adjacent ions and
subsequently a larger shift of this Ce ion is expected. We
should also mention that the more charge for a Ce with a
smaller nCe is mainly attributed to the more signiﬁcant occu-
pations in the 5d orbitals not shown, because the Ce with
the smaller nCe is closer to its neighboring O ions, allowing
electron ﬁlling in these more diffused orbitals. On the other
hand the occupations on the strongly localized f orbitals for
reduced Ce ions with different nCe are very similar all close
to 1. The relative stability between tetramers I and II can be
also understood from similar analyses to those described
above, for which we do not repeat.
V. GEOMETRICAL COMPARISONS WITH EXPERIMENT
AND COMMENTS ON DLSVC VERSUS SVT
The most notable discrepancy between our calculations
and some of the experiments concerns the relative stability of
DLSVC versus SVT. While SVT is found to be more stable
than DLSVC in this work, which is consistent with the ex-
periments of Nörenberg and Briggs,7 the studies of Esch et
al.11 and Namai et al.9 suggested that DLSVC is the main
defect. We should mention that our conclusion is indepen-
dent of methodologies, as our tests with different U param-
eters and even the LDA+U functional always favor SVT by
a comfortable margin.
Esch et al.11 showed some interesting geometries for
DLSVC from their STM simulations, i.e., DLSVC is charac-
terized by a pair of rim O atoms that face each other, one
appearing 
0.1 Å below and one 
0.1 Å above the unper-
turbed surface. Both O atoms shift laterally toward the inside
of the defect. The inward shifts are particularly interesting
because one may expect that upon the creation of the VCs,
the O atoms surrounding the VCs would relax outward due
to the electrostatic repulsions with the reduced Ce3+ ions.
Hence, one may ask, how well our calculation predicts the
geometry of DLSVC. To illustrate this, we redraw the struc-
ture of DLSVC in Fig. 7a, where the shifts of the six sur-
face O atoms surrounding the VCs, with respect to their po-
sitions at the stoichiometric surface, are depicted. It becomes
clear from Fig. 7a that upon the creation of DLSVC, all the
O atoms indeed relax outward i.e., away from the defect.
However, the pair of O atoms in the middle of the irregular
hexagon highlighted in dark blue has smaller lateral dis-
placements than the other O atoms. As a result, these two O
atoms seemingly move inward by 0.03 and 0.08 Å, respec-
tively, with respect to the others, which is consistent with the
STM image i.e., the bright spots representing these two O
atoms are closer to the defects than those representing other
O atoms11. The vertical shifts of these two O atoms i.e., one
moving down and one moving up are also illustrated in Fig.
7a. Thus, the characteristic features observed by Esch et
al.11 are well produced from our calculations.
Returning to the discrepancy, one therefore would ask
why DLSVC rather than SVT is the main defect in some
experiments. In the following, we propose several possible
interpretations. First, although SVT is thermodynamically
ZHANG et al.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-8
more stable from our calculations, whether or not its forma-
tion is also kinetically more favorable remains an open ques-
tion. We note in the literature that the different observations
in STM were attributed to different sample treatments in the
study of Namai et al.9 In accordance with this explanation,
we speculate that during the cooling process for the STM
imaging, DLSVC created at elevated temperatures may be
able to maintain its integrity rather than transforming to more
stable SVT due to possible kinetic barriers. This scenario is
quite possible, considering that the transformation from
DLSVC to SVT would involve an O diffusion into the sub-
surface vacancy, for which high temperatures are required.11
Furthermore, we note that even the more stable trimer, SVT,
is slightly less stable than the monomers as can be seen in
Table I, which suggests that SVT, like DLSVC, could also
just be kinetically stable.
Second, we consider that DLSVC is quite similar to dimer
II in the sense that both have two surface O vacancies and
both are surrounded by six O atoms i.e., the shape of an
irregular hexagon. Although DLSVC involves a subsurface
O vacancy, because of the difﬁculty in directly observing and
precisely locating subsurface O vacancies in STM,12 there
might be a chance that dimer II could be mistaken as
DLSVC due to the resemblance of the two defects. Figure
7b shows the main geometrical change of the six O atoms
upon the formation of dimer II, in which an interesting dif-
ference emerges when compared with DLSVC. Unlike the
seemingly inward shifts of the two middle O atoms for
DLSVC relative to neighboring rim atoms, the two middle
O atoms for dimer II shift outward slightly Fig. 7b.
Hence, this difference would be useful to distinguish the two
defects, although it might be a challenge in experiment to
identify such a small displacement as a few hundredths of
angstroms. Recalling the suggestion of nonobservation for
dimer II,11 clearly, a revisit of the possibility of dimer II in
experiment would help clarify this issue.
Third, our investigations on vacancy tetramers provide
further insight to the growth of LSVCs which appear to oc-
cur preferentially in a straight manner.11 Let us ﬁrst suppose
that DLSVC has somehow already been formed on the sur-
face, the most stable tetramer containing a subsurface va-
cancy must be linear i.e., tetramer I rather than other pos-
(a) DLSVC
(b) Dimer II
0.19 Å + 0.06 Å
0.23 Å + 0.08 Å
0.18 Å + 0.07 Å
0.17 Å
+ 0.06 Å
0.20 Å
+ 0.05 Å
0.11 Å
0.22 Å + 0.07 Å
0.19 Å + 0.09 Å
0.22 Å + 0.07 Å
0.22 Å
+ 0.08 Å
0.14 Å
−0.02 Å
0.22 Å
+ 0.08 Å
+ 0.02 Å
Vertical
Lateral
Lateral
Vertical
Vertical
Lateral
Lateral
Vertical
FIG. 7. Color online Schematic representations of movements of the edge O atoms upon the formation of a vacancy trimer DLSVC
and a vacancy dimer dimer II. The lateral shifts are depicted by arrows and the vertical shifts are depicted by “+” and “−” signs, which
mean moving away or toward the surface plane, respectively. The middle O pairs in the irregular hexagons are highlighted in dark blue.
OXYGEN VACANCY CLUSTERS ON CERIA: DECISIVE…
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-9
sible shapes i.e., tetramers II and III, as we discussed
earlier. Moreover, the formation energy for the fourth va-
cancy of the linear tetramer I with respect to DLSVC is
similar to that for the single vacancy SV or SSV or that for
the third vacancy of SVT. This indicates that if SV or SSV or
SVT form under the right experimental conditions, the linear
tetramer could also form in the similar circumstances pro-
vided that DLSVC is already present on the surface. It is
worth mentioning that the most stable tetramer among all the
possibilities would still be IV or V, which may be viewed as
direct derivatives of SVT. However, the formation of these
tetramers from DLSVC may be hindered kinetically because
it would again involve an O diffusion into the subsurface
vacancy, which is unlikely to occur at 300 °C the STM
imaging condition11 due to the diffusion barrier presented.
Not only would the linear vacancy tetramer be expected
from DLSVC, we also expect that linear vacancy pentamer,
hexamer, etc. i.e., gradually removing a further O atom at
either end of the linear VCs would likely be more stable
than other possible shapes of vacancies containing subsur-
face vacancies. This is because the possible ways to create
the n+1th vacancy from the linear VC containing n vacan-
cies will be similar to those described in Sec. III i.e., releas-
ing an O atom associated with a different Ce3+ ion. For the
electronic reasons similar to those given in Sec. IV C, releas-
ing a further O atom at the either end of the linear VCs
would be the most favorable scenario, as it would cause the
least electrostatic repulsion. Hence, the vacancy growth from
DLSVCs could proceed in a linear fashion, which is exactly
the case observed in the experiment of Esch et al.11
VI. IMPLICATION IN CATALYSIS
The energy ordering of the ﬁlled f states of different Ce3+
ions has an interesting implication in the ceria-supported
gold system, which is widely regarded as a promising cata-
lyst for the water-gas shift reaction. From our recent study of
Au adsorption at an O vacancy at the CeO2111 surface,31
the electronic picture for the adsorption can be described as
follows. Upon Au adsorption, the f electrons, which are
originally localized at a Ce3+, enter into the 6sAu orbitals;
ionic bonding develops between Au−and adjacent Ce ions.
This adsorption mechanism implies that the adsorption ener-
getics could be closely related to the energy level of the f
states of the Ce3+, which would be reoxidized by the ad-
sorbed Au. Thus, an interesting prospect of Au adsorption
can be envisaged on VCs, where various f states are pre-
sented.
We calculate Au adsorption at DLSVC, in which four-,
ﬁve-, six-, and sevenfold Ce3+ ions exist. Compared to the
adsorption energy at SV −2.29 eV, the adsorption becomes
much
stronger
at
DLSVC
the
adsorption
energy
is
−3.18 eV. The difference in the adsorption energies can be
attributed to the different Ce3+ ions in the two cases, which
are reoxidized to Ce4+ by the adsorbed Au: the Ce3+ ion is
sixfold for the SV, whereas it is sevenfold for DLSVC Fig.
8a. Because the ﬁlled f states of the sevenfold Ce3+ are at
higher energies than those of the sixfold Ce3+, the elimina-
tion of the former spin states would stabilize the adsorption
system more than it would in the latter case. We note that
there are three different sites for the Au adsorption at
DLSVC, namely, the three hollow sites that are surrounded
by Ce3+ ions. However, we ﬁnd that the adsorption energy is
almost independent of the adsorption sites because the reoxi-
dized Ce3+ is always the sevenfold one in all three adsorption
cases. This feature is noted, even in situations where hollow
sites do not immediately neighbor the sevenfold Ce3+. Taking
tetramer I as an example Fig. 8b, the reoxidized Ce3+ is
still the sevenfold one, even if Au adsorbs at the third-nearest
hollow site from it. Of course, we should mention that at
SVT, Au adsorption energy does not alter very much by

0.2 eV compared to that on the single SV since in both
cases the sixfold Ce3+ ions would be reoxidized.
The strengthened Au adsorption at VCs is interesting,
considering the current controversy on the anchoring site of
the Au nanoparticle on ceria, namely, whether the nanopar-
ticle is locked into O vacancies or Ce vacancies in the ceria
lattice.34 This issue is often simpliﬁed to the question of
which vacancy site is the most stable for Au atom
adsorption.35 We have shown in a recent study that a single
Ce vacancy is much harder to form and much less stable than
an O vacancy, and thus the Ce vacancy model may not be
favored for Au adsorption.36 The ﬁnding of the enhanced
adsorption on VCs here would certainly add more favor to
the O vacancy model. Of course, one may argue that the
vacancy formation energy should also be taken into account
and thus the overall adsorption energy may be different.
Nevertheless, given a pre-existing VC, the adsorption on the
VC would be clearly preferred.
VII. CONCLUSION
To recap, we summarize below the main conclusions that
have been reached from this study:
1 SV is as stable as SSV, which agrees with the similar
coverages of the two defects observed experimentally at
slightly reduced surfaces.
2 In addition to the surface dimer containing a subsur-
face O suggested from experiment, the dimer of two surface
O vacancies is also found to be stable.
7-fold Ce
Au
7-fold Ce4+
Au
4+
FIG. 8. Color online The spin states for Au adsorption at the
linear vacancy trimer DLSVC and linear vacancy tetramer i.e.,
tetramer I. In the latter case, although the Au sits at the third-
nearest hollow site toward the sevenfold Ce ion, the sevenfold ion is
still oxidized.
ZHANG et al.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-10
3 For the vacancy trimers, the linear-type i.e., DLSVC
defect is less stable than the triangular type i.e., SVT,
mainly because of the presence of the high-energy f states of
an inner sevenfold Ce ion near the former defect.
4 Analogous to the relative stability between SVT and
DLSVC, the tetramers containing no SSV are more stable
than those containing SSV. In the latter cases, the tetramer
with the linear shape appears to be the most stable, suggest-
ing that the vacancy clusters could grow in a straight manner
provided that DLSVC pre-exists.
5 The main electronic change upon O removal is the
electron localization on Ce ions, which plays the vital role in
determining the stabilities of vacancies. A general correlation
between the coordination number of Ce3+ and its energy for
the ﬁlled f states is identiﬁed; namely, the higher the coordi-
nation number is, the less stable the Ce3+ would be.
6 The energy ordering of ﬁlled f states of Ce3+ has an
interesting implication in ceria-supported gold systems: Au
adsorption is stronger at DLSVC than at a single vacancy
because the spin in the high-energy f states of the sevenfold
Ce3+ is eliminated by the adsorbed Au.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We acknowledge the Cambridge Isaac Newton Trust
C.Z., and The Royal Society S.J.J. A.M. was supported
by the EURYI scheme see www.esf.org/euryi and the
EPSRC-GB.
*Author
to
whom
correspondence
should
be
addressed;
sjj24@cam.ac.uk
1G. A. Deluga, J. R. Salge, L. D. Schmidt, and X. E. Verykios,
Science 303, 993 2004.
2S. Park, J. M. Vohs, and R. J. Gorte, Nature London 404, 265
2000.
3A. Trovarelli, Catal. Rev. - Sci. Eng. 38, 439 1996.
4R. K. Grasselli and J. D. Burrington, Adv. Catal. 30, 133 1981.
5Q. Fu, H. Saltsburg, and M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos, Science
301, 935 2003.
6Z. Liu, S. J. Jenkins, and D. A. King, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94,
196102 2005.
7H. Nörenberg and G. A. D. Briggs, Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 4222
1997.
8H. Nörenberg and G. A. D. Briggs, Surf. Sci. Lett. 424, L352
1999.
9Y. Namai, K. Fujui, and Y. Iwasawa, J. Phys. Chem. B 107,
11666 2003.
10Y. Namai, K. Fujui, and Y. Iwasawa, Catal. Today 85, 79 2003.
11F. Esch, S. Fabris, L. Zhou, T. Montini, C. Africh, P. Fornasiero,
G. Comelli, and R. Rosei, Science 309, 752 2005.
12S. Torbrügge, M. Reichling, A. Ishiyama, S. Morita, and Ó.
Custance, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 056101 2007.
13C. T. Campbell and C. H. Peden, Science 309, 713 2005.
14M. Nolan, S. Grigoleit, D. C. Sayle, S. C. Parker, and G. W.
Watson, Surf. Sci. 576, 217 2005.
15S. Fabris, G. Vicario, G. Balducci, S. de Gironcoli, and S.
Baroni, J. Phys. Chem. B 109, 22860 2005.
16B. Herschend, M. Baudin, and K. Hermansson, J. Chem. Phys.
126, 234706 2007.
17M. V. Ganduglia-Pirovano, A. Hofmann, and J. Sauer, Surf. Sci.
Rep. 62, 219 2007.
18G. Kresse and J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B 49, 14251 1994.
19G. Kresse and J. Furthmüller, Comput. Mater. Sci. 6, 15 1996.
20G. Kresse and J. Furthmüller, Phys. Rev. B 54, 11169 1996.
21P. E. Blöchl, Phys. Rev. B 50, 17953 1994.
22G. Kresse and D. Joubert, Phys. Rev. B 59, 1758 1999.
23J. P. Perdew, in Electron Structure of Solids ’91, edited by P.
Ziesche and H. Eschrig Akademie, Berlin, 1991.
24V. I. Anisimov, J. Zaanen, and O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B 44,
943 1991.
25A. Rohrbach, J. Hafner, and G. Kresse, J. Phys.: Condens. Mat-
ter 15, 979 2003.
26G. Kresse, P. Blaha, J. L. F. Da Silva, and M. V. Ganduglia-
Pirovano, Phys. Rev. B 72, 237101 2005.
27C. Loschen, J. Carrasco, K. M. Neyman, and F. Illas, Phys. Rev.
B 75, 035115 2007.
28J. L. F. Da Silva, M. V. Ganduglia-Pirovano, J. Sauer, V. Bayer,
and G. Kresse, Phys. Rev. B 75, 045121 2007.
29D. A. Andersson, S. I. Simak, B. Jahansson, I. A. Abrikosov, and
N. V. Skorodumova, Phys. Rev. B 75, 035109 2007.
30C. W. M. Castleton, J. Kullgren, and K. Hermansson, J. Chem.
Phys. 127, 244704 2007.
31C. Zhang, A. Michaelides, D. A. King, and S. J. Jenkins, J.
Chem. Phys. 129, 194708 2008.
32M. Nolan, S. C. Parker, and G. W. Watson, Surf. Sci. 595, 223
2005.
33Note that we rule out the possibility of removing a subsurface O
i.e., an O associated with the sevenfold Ce3+, which would
lead to more reduced sevenfold ions and consequently decrease
further the stability of the surface. Moreover, the resultant ge-
ometry of neighboring subsurface vacancies would not agree
with the experimental pattern Ref. 12. We also omit the dis-
cussion of removing an O other than OI which is also associ-
ated with a sixfold Ce3+ because the resultant vacancy tetramer
would have the same shape as tetramer II, and would have very
similar energy and electronic structure to tetramer II too. We
also rule out the possibility of removing an O other than OII
which is also associated with a ﬁvefold Ce3+. This is because the
eight excess electrons, owing to the four vacancies, would local-
ize on eight Ce ions exposed to the defect, whereas in the re-
sultant conﬁguration, there are only seven such Ce ions.
34R. Burch, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 8, 5483 2006.
35D. Tibiletti, Burch R. Amieiro-Fonseca, Y. Chen, J. M. Fisher, A.
Goguet, C. Hardcare, P. Hu, and D. Thompsett, J. Phys. Chem. B
109, 22553 2005.
36C. Zhang, A. Michaelides, D. A. King, and S. J. Jenkins, J. Phys.
Chem. C to be published.
OXYGEN VACANCY CLUSTERS ON CERIA: DECISIVE…
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 79, 075433 2009
075433-11
