<quotes>
[1] "A mechanism for the hydrogenation of the simplest olefin, ethylene, over a platinum surface was first proposed in the 1930's by Horiuti and Polanyi (Figure 1)."
[2] "According to their model, ethylene chemisorbs on the clean metal surface by breaking one of the carbon-carbon double bonds."
[3] "This species, which forms two σ bonds with the underlying metal substrate, is then stepwise hydrogenated through an ethyl intermediate to ethane."
[4] "Evidence for an ethyl intermediate was found in the 1950's by Kemball et al. using deuterium labeling that showed ethylene molecules readily exchange hydrogen atoms during the hydrogenation process."
[5] "Kinetic studies showed that the rate at which ethylene hydrogenates is independent of the structure of the underlying metal atoms and therefore it is called a structure-insensitive reaction."
[6] "The reaction has been observed to vary between half order and first order in hydrogen (depending upon temperature) and to be zero or slightly negative order in ethylene."
</quotes>

Answer: The Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for catalytic dehydrogenation reactions involves four main steps. First, ethylene chemisorbs on the platinum surface by breaking one of its carbon-carbon double bonds. This forms a species that creates two sigma bonds with the underlying metal substrate. Next, this species is stepwise hydrogenated through an ethyl intermediate to form ethane. In the 1950s, evidence for an ethyl intermediate was found using deuterium labeling, showing that ethylene molecules easily exchange hydrogen atoms during the process. Studies have shown that the rate of ethylene hydrogenation is independent of the structure of the metal atoms, making it a structure-insensitive reaction. The reaction order varies between half order and first order in hydrogen and is zero or slightly negative in ethylene. Despite nearly a century of study, the debate continues regarding which step is the rate-limiting step in the mechanism.

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1.霍里图和波拉尼于20世纪30年代首次提出了在铂表面氢化最简单的烯烃乙烷的机制。根据他们的模型，乙烷通过断裂其两个碳碳双键化学吸附在金属表面。
2.形成的物种与底层金属基体形成两个σ键，然后通过一个乙基中间体逐步氢化形成乙烷。
3.20世纪50年代，通过使用脱氘标记的方法，卡姆贝尔等发现证据表明，乙烷分子在氢化过程中很容易交换氢原子。
4.动力学研究表明，乙烯氢化的速率与其底层金属原子结构无关，因此被称为结构不敏感反应。
5.该反应在氢气的温度依赖性下表现为半级数到一级数，在乙烯的零或轻微负级数之间变化。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
