<quotes>
2.3. B Active Sites Located in or Bonded to the 3-D Framework of Porous Materials
The B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites generally exhibit porous structures and high specific surface areas.
2.3.1. 3-D Supported BN Active Sites
To meet the heat and mass transfer requirements of industrial applications, the 3-D monolith of BN is a potential and promising catalyst that improves the pressure drop of the catalyst bed and enhances its stability.
2.3.2. 3-D Supported BOx Active Sites
When preparing a supported BOx catalyst on a 2-D carrier, because of the volatility and rapid loss of the B precursor, the maximum B loading on SiO2 is 2%, which restricts the improvement of the propene yield.
2.3.3. Bulk B-Based Catalysts with 3-D Dispersed Active Site Doped in the Framework of Porous Materials
Zeolites, a family of porous materials with a high specific surface area and uniform and tunable pore structure, are widely used in heterogeneous catalysis.
2.3.4. Exploration of Active Sites on 3-D B Materials
The study of active sites on the surface of 2-D materials has shown that the agglomerated tricoordination oxidized B species are responsible for ODHP catalytic performance, which are further explored in 3-D B materials, such as supported boron oxide catalysts, boron phosphate catalysts, etc.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The structural characteristics of B-based materials with 3-D dispersed active sites in porous frameworks involve porous structures and high specific surface areas. These features enhance catalytic performance by providing abundant sites for active B species and influencing the reaction behavior of radicals. The 3-D dispersion of active sites also regulates mass transport behaviors during the reaction process. Different methods are used to incorporate B active components into these structures, such as loading them on the surface of 3-D porous structures or doping them into the 3-D framework of porous materials. These methods are effective for various catalytic applications, offering higher utility of B active sites and constructing confined spaces that influence the reaction behavior of active radical intermediates and mass transport.

These materials are particularly useful for oxygen functionalized B sites and clusters, which achieve high olefin selectivity and low COx selectivity. The increasing dispersion dimension from 1-D to 3-D significantly increases the density of available centers for reactions. However, the interplay between the on-surface and off-surface channels needs to be controlled for catalyst design, considering the confinement's impact on radical termination and diffusion of reactants, intermediates, and products. Understanding and optimizing the spatial interaction of surface-active sites with gas-phase key intermediates can provide opportunities for developing catalysts for industrial applications.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这些材料的结构特征包括多孔结构和高比表面积。这些特性通过提供丰富的活性B物种位点和影响反应中间体的行为来增强催化性能。3-D分散的活性位点还调节了反应过程中的质量传输行为。使用不同的方法将B活性成分引入这些结构中，如在三维多孔结构的表面负载或将其掺入多孔材料的三维框架中。这些方法对于各种催化应用都是有效的，提供了B活性位点更高的利用率，并构建了限制空间，影响活性自由基中间体和质量传输的行为。

这些材料特别适用于氧功能化的B位点和簇，它们能够实现高烯烃选择性和低COx选择性。从1-D到3-D的活性位点分散维度的增加显著提高了反应可用中心的密度。然而，在催化剂设计中需要控制表面和非表面通道之间的相互作用，考虑到限制对反应物、中间体和产物的扩散的影响。理解并优化表面活性位点与气相关键中间体的空间交互可以为工业应用开发催化剂提供机会。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
