<quotes>

[1] "Bulk nitrogen doping can efficiently improve the catalytic performance of carbon nanotubes (CNT) in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODH). The graphitic nitrogen plays a determining role in enhancing their activity by speeding up the activation of oxygen and decreasing the overall activation energy of the reaction."

[2] "The doped CNT catalysts with suitable content of graphitic nitrogen are quite stable and more active for the ODH of propane. We believe that the graphitic nitrogen may play a determining role in enhancing the catalytic activity by decreasing the overall activation energy and speeding up the activation of oxygen."

[3] "Graphitic N atoms donate electrons to the graphitic sheet25 and improve the electron mobility from the basal plane to the intermediate O2 , promoting the final dissociation of gas-phase O2 to nucleophilic O2 species. For the ODH process, the doped N atoms reduce the dependence of the reaction rate on oxygen partial pressure and finally decrease the reaction order of oxygen (Fig. 3b)."

[4] "The improved surface coverage of blank active sites (y0) for propane conversion is therefore believed to be the reason for the enhanced ODH activity."

[5] "The graphitic N played a vital role in reducing the overall activation energy (Fig. 3b) and consequently increasing the reaction rate."

[6] "A linear relationship between activation energy and the atomic abundance of graphitic N (N3, atom%) can be fitted by the empirical equation Ea = 117.232.7  N3 to quantitatively describe the role of graphitic N in decreasing the activation energy of ODH."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (CNTs) exhibit enhanced catalytic activity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODH). The graphitic nitrogen plays a key role by speeding up the activation of oxygen and decreasing the overall activation energy of the reaction. The doped CNT catalysts with suitable content of graphitic nitrogen are stable and more active for the ODH of propane. The graphitic nitrogen enhances the catalytic activity by decreasing the overall activation energy and speeding up the activation of oxygen. The doped N atoms reduce the dependence of the reaction rate on oxygen partial pressure and decrease the reaction order of oxygen. The improved surface coverage of blank active sites for propane conversion is believed to be the reason for the enhanced ODH activity. The graphitic N played a vital role in reducing the overall activation energy and increasing the reaction rate. A linear relationship between activation energy and the atomic abundance of graphitic N can be fitted to quantitatively describe the role of graphitic N in decreasing the activation energy of ODH.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氮掺杂碳纳米管（CNTs）在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODH）反应中表现出增强的催化活性。石墨氮在加速氧气活化和降低反应的总活化能方面起着关键作用。具有适宜石墨氮含量的掺杂CNT催化剂在丙烷ODH反应中既稳定又活性更高。石墨氮通过降低总活化能和加速氧气活化来增强催化活性。掺杂的N原子降低了反应速率对氧气分压的依赖性，并降低了氧气的反应级数。改善的空白活性位点表面覆盖率被认为是增强ODH活性的原因。石墨氮在降低总活化能和增加反应速率方面起着至关重要的作用。活化能与石墨N的原子丰度之间存在线性关系，可以拟合以定量描述石墨N在降低ODH活化能中的作用。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
