<quotes>
2. Introduction
A catalyst that does not age has been a long-held dream of automotive engineers.
From the viewpoint of intelligent materials, the intelligence of the catalyst may be defined as its ability to maintain a high performance by adapting its structure, responding sensitively to environmental changes.
The important role of the automotive three-way catalyst is widely recognized for the simultaneous conversion of emissions of three pollutants in engine exhaust gases: carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and unburned hydrocarbons (HC).
The conventional three-way catalyst consists of fine particles of precious metals dispersed on ceramic support materials such as alumina, ceria, or zirconia; however, the catalytic activity of such catalysts deteriorates, owing to the agglomeration and growth of precious-metal particles during use.
An intelligent Pdperovskite catalyst has been developed that has a greatly improved durability as a result of the self-regeneration function of Pd nanoparticles.
It has been confirmed that the catalytic activity can be maintained even when the amount of precious metals is reduced by 70-90%.
A vehicle equipped with the intelligent catalyst was supplied to the market and succeeded in achieving the ultra-low-emission vehicle (ULEV) standard in 2002.
Moreover, the intelligent catalyst has also succeeded in achieving a new super-ultra-low-emission vehicle (SULEV) standard, adopted from January 2004.
The production of clean vehicles equipped with the intelligent catalyst exceeded one million units in January 2005.
By this technology, it not only became possible to achieve a drastic reduction in the cost of catalysts, but also the technology solved the problem of the supply and demand of precious metals for automotive applications, which had caused a negative effect on other industries.
The intelligent catalyst now attracts worldwide attention and provides a new concept for the development of future automotive catalysts.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The intelligent Pdperovskite catalyst has been developed to maintain its catalytic activity even when the amount of precious metals is reduced by 70-90%. It has achieved the ULEV and SULEV standards, reducing emissions significantly and enabling the production of clean vehicles. This technology has drastically reduced the cost of catalysts and resolved the issue of precious metal supply and demand, impacting other industries positively. The intelligent catalyst has attracted global attention and offers a new direction for future automotive catalyst development.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
智能Pd钙钛矿催化剂能够维持其催化活性，即使贵金属含量减少至70%-90%。它已经达到了ULEV和SULEV标准，大幅减少了排放，并使清洁车辆的生产成为可能。这项技术极大地降低了催化剂的成本，并解决了汽车应用中贵金属供应和需求的问题，对其他行业产生了积极影响。智能催化剂吸引了全球的关注，并为未来汽车催化剂的发展提供了新的方向。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
