<quotes>

[1] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[2] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[3] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[4] "To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins."
[5] "The reaction is run at temperatures of approximately 575 C and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar."
[6] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[7] "Indeed, temperatures of 550750 C are typically required in the dehydrogenation of C2C4 paraffins to obtain alkane conversions 50% at 1 bar (see Figure 8)."
[8] "As it is not possible to completely prevent coke deposition, the catalyst needs to be regenerated frequently by combusting the coke deposits."
[9] "However, it was not possible to calculate turnover frequency (TOF) due to the fact that Pt dispersion values (the ratio between the Pt at the surface versus the interior of the catalyst nanoparticles) were not forthcoming in most of the references included in Table 3."
[10] "Indeed, it is believed that the similar ionic radii and charge of Al3+ and Cr3+ facilitate the diffusion and subsequent incorporation of Cr3+ into the octahedral sites of alumina, which produces a type of chromiaalumina spinel that is inactive for the dehydrogenation reaction."
[11] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[12] "The majority of these new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. Shale gas deposits contain significant quantities of natural gas liquids (NGL), including ethane and propane, which are easily separated from natural gas.

2. In 2007, less than 3% of propylene was produced through targeted methods, while FCC and steam cracking dominated propylene production.

3. Rising demand from the automotive industry, coupled with a decrease in supply due to high naphtha cracking costs, led to sharp increases in butadiene prices.

4. Five main industrial processes for dehydrogenating light alkanes have been patented, with two currently in use for producing light olefins.

5. The dehydrogenation reaction is conducted at around 575°C and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar.

6. The catalyst maintains its use for 23 years, compensating for the progressive loss in activity by gradually increasing temperature to maintain consistent dehydrogenation activity.

7. Temperatures of 550 to 750°C are typically needed to achieve 50% alkane conversion at 1 bar in the dehydrogenation of C2-C4 paraffins (see Figure 8).

8. Coke deposition cannot be fully prevented, necessitating frequent regeneration by combusting the coke deposits.

9. Turnover frequency (TOF) could not be calculated due to missing Pt dispersion values from most references in Table 3.

10. The similarity in ionic radii and charge between Al3+ and Cr3+ allows for the diffusion and incorporation of Cr3+ into the alumina framework, resulting in an inactive spinel compound.

11. The abundance of relatively inexpensive ethane has prompted a shift from naphtha to shale-based ethane in US steam cracking installations, with new ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted.

12. Most of the new facilities will be established in China or the United States, utilizing either the Catofin (Lummus) or Oleflex (UOP) technologies.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 石油页岩气藏中含有大量可从天然气中分离的天然气液体（NGL），包括乙烷和丙烷。

2. 2007年，通过特定方法生产的丙烯不到3%，而FCC和蒸汽裂解则主导了丙烯的生产。

3. 汽车行业需求增长，与裂解成本高昂导致的供应减少相结合，导致丁二烯价格大幅上涨。

4. 五种主要的工业过程用于轻烷烃的脱氢化已经获得专利，其中两种目前被用于生产轻烯烃。

5. 脱氢反应在约575°C和0.2至0.5巴的压力下进行。

6. 催化剂使用长达23年，通过逐渐提高温度来抵消活性随时间下降的趋势，以维持整个催化剂寿命的稳定脱氢活性。

7. 在1巴下，550至750°C的温度通常需要将C2-C4烷烃转化为50%的烷基化合物（见图8）。

8. 无法完全防止焦炭沉积，因此需要频繁再生以燃烧焦炭沉积物。

9. 由于表3中大多数参考文献缺少铂分布值，无法计算周转频率（TOF）。

10. 铝3+和Cr3+相似的离子半径和电荷使Cr3+能够扩散并最终融入到氧化铝框架中，形成一种对脱氢反应无活性的尖晶石化合物。

11. 由于相对便宜的乙烷的可用性增加，美国的蒸汽裂解安装已转向基于页岩的乙烷，新建的乙烷裂解器正在建设中，而原有的裂解器则被拆卸或转换为其他用途。

12. 大多数新设施将在中国或美国建立，使用的是Lummus的Catofin或UOP的Oleflex技术之一。
