<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Stable and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation operating at thermodynamic limit Hitting the limits on propene synthesis The greater abundance of propane from shale gas has spurred efforts to use it as a propylene feedstock. Direct dehydrogenation catalysts consisting of platinumtin alloy nanoparticles supported on alumina often must run with hydrogen dilution to avoid carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation.
          We report that silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles (&lt;2 nanometers in diameter) can operate as a PDH catalyst at thermodynamically limited conversion levels, with excellent stability and selectivity to propylene (&gt;99%). Atomic mixing of Pt and Sn in the precursor is preserved upon reduction and during catalytic operation. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silicon dioxide support does not lead to Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase that can occur over traditional catalyst supports.
          To alleviate this issue, large quantities of Sn are used in the catalyst preparation (the nominal atomic loading is Sn:Pt between 4 and 5), which increases the yield of intermetallic PtSn NPs (12). In addition, studies have shown that adding hydrogen to the reactant feed reduces the rate of catalyst deactivation (13). Although this strategy is implemented commercially (10), addition of hydrogen in the feed lowers the thermodynamic limit on per-pass propane conversion (fig. S1) and decreases productivity (7).
          We developed a PDH catalyst that operates at thermodynamically limited conversion levels without the addition of hydrogen to the feed and exhibits excellent stability and selectivity to propylene (&gt;99%). The catalyst is composed of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 NPs, synthesized and pretreated to ensure that the mixing of Pt and Sn is preserved during catalytic operation.
          The principle behind catalyst synthesis is to begin with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex in which Pt and Sn are in immediate contact, and this interaction is retained during the reduction and PDH reaction.
          The data in Fig. 1, A to C, were obtained with 16 vol % propane in helium. Propane streams are diluted in commercial operations to increase the limiting equilibrium conversion, which is higher at lower propane partial pressure (fig. S2), and to limit catalyst deactivation rates (7, 16, 17). This approach requires additional downstream separation units and limits process efficiency.
          The data in Fig. 1, A to C, show the performance of the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst (1 wt % Pt and 0.6 wt % Sn) for propane dehydrogenation at 580C, 16 vol % propane (with the remainder helium) and at a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 4.7 hours1. Under these reaction conditions, the thermodynamic limit on propane conversion is 66.5% (fig. S2). The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of &gt;66% (Fig. 1A, red circles) and &gt;99% selectivity to propylene (Fig. 1B, red circles).
          The data in Fig. 1D show that, under these conditions, the propane conversion goes from 41 to 39% in 120 min. Under identical conditions, the other tested catalysts deactivate very rapidly to very low conversion, as illustrated for the commercial mimic. A transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of the spent catalyst, after 120 min of PDH reaction, is shown in fig. S6. The image shows that the Pt-Sn NPs are well dispersed, with an average particle diameter of 1.6  0.67 nm, which is consistent with the particle size in fresh samples.
          We attempted to regenerate the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst by oxidation, using 1% O2 as a mild oxidant at 500C followed by reduction at 600C (see supplementary materials for details of the regeneration procedure). The regeneration studies showed that Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalysts can be partially regenerated. For example, we measured 97% of the initial activity and &gt;99% of the initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles (fig. S5).
          Data in Fig. 3A show that the process of mixing chloroplatinic acid (H2PtCl6) and tin(II) chloride (SnCl2) in 0.1 M hydrochloric acid solution formed a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex.
          A bright-field TEM image of Pt-Sn NPs formed on SiO2 upon the reduction of the Pt-Sn complex shows high metal dispersion on the support, with an average NP size of 1.3  0.6 nm (Fig. 3B). The NP size distribution (Fig. 3C) shows that most NPs were &lt;2 nm. The XRD spectra in Fig. 3D show that the formed NPs were essentially alloys of Pt and Sn. This finding is supported by the presence of the XRD peaks corresponding to Pt1Sn1 (41.8 and 44.1) and Pt3Sn1 (39.0 and 45.3) stoichiometries.
          The real-space Pt LIII EXAFS spectra for the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst (Fig. 4D) are substantially different from the spectra of monometallic Pt and indicate the mixing of Pt and Sn atoms. The best-fit spectrum for the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst is characterized by the presence of the Pt-Pt and Pt-Sn scattering paths, consistent with the formation of PtSn intermetallic phases.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective catalysts that can operate at thermodynamic limits. These catalysts, often consisting of platinum-tin alloy nanoparticles supported on alumina, have traditionally required hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. However, a new approach using silica-supported platinum-tin nanoparticles has been reported to operate at thermodynamically limited conversion levels with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving the atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, which increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis of the catalyst begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring that the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.
          Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective catalysts that can operate at thermodynamic limits. These catalysts, consisting of platinum-tin alloy nanoparticles supported on alumina, often require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. However, these strategies can reduce the efficiency of the process.
          A new catalyst has been developed that operates at thermodynamic limits without the need for hydrogen dilution and exhibits excellent stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst is composed of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, synthesized and pretreated to ensure that the mixing of Pt and Sn is preserved during catalytic operation.
          The principle behind the synthesis of this catalyst is to begin with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex in which Pt and Sn are in immediate contact, and this interaction is retained during the reduction and PDH reaction.
          The new catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without the addition of hydrogen to the feed and exhibits excellent stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalyst is composed of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, synthesized and pretreated to ensure that the mixing of Pt and Sn is preserved during catalytic operation.
          Commercial operations often dilute propane streams to increase the limiting equilibrium conversion, which is higher at lower propane partial pressure, and to limit catalyst deactivation rates. However, this approach requires additional downstream separation units and limits process efficiency.
          Under reaction conditions, the thermodynamic limit on propane conversion is 66.5%. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of &gt;66% and &gt;99% selectivity to propylene.
          Under harsh conditions, the propane conversion goes from 41 to 39% in 120 min. Under identical conditions, the other tested catalysts deactivate very rapidly to very low conversion. A TEM image of the spent catalyst shows that the Pt-Sn NPs are well dispersed, with an average particle diameter of 1.6  0.67 nm, which is consistent with the particle size in fresh samples.
          The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated by oxidation using 1% O2 as a mild oxidant at 500C followed by reduction at 600C. The regeneration studies showed that the catalysts can be partially regenerated, with 97% of the initial activity and &gt;99% of the initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.
          The process of mixing chloroplatinic acid and tin(II) chloride in 0.1 M hydrochloric acid solution formed a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex.
          A bright-field TEM image of Pt-Sn NPs formed on SiO2 upon the reduction of the Pt-Sn complex shows high metal dispersion on the support, with an average NP size of 1.3  0.6 nm. The XRD spectra show that the formed NPs were essentially alloys of Pt and Sn.
          The real-space Pt LIII EXAFS spectra for the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst are substantially different from the spectra of monometallic Pt and indicate the mixing of Pt and Sn atoms. The best-fit spectrum for the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst is characterized by the presence of the Pt-Pt and Pt-Sn scattering paths, consistent with the formation of PtSn intermetallic phases.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          最近在直接脱氢过程的催化剂设计方面的进展集中在开发稳定和选择性催化剂，这些催化剂可以在热力学极限下运行。这些催化剂通常由负载在氧化铝上的铂锡合金纳米粒子组成，传统上需要氢稀释以防止碳堆积，并且需要过量的锡来避免合金分离。然而，据报道，使用硅胶支持的铂锡纳米粒子的新方法可以在热力学限制的转化水平上运行，具有高稳定性和对丙烯的高选择性。这是通过在还原和催化操作期间保持铂和锡的原子混合来实现的，纳米粒子与硅胶支持的良性相互作用防止了分离和锡氧化物相的形成。这种催化剂可以在不添加氢的情况下运行，通过避免丙烷转化的热力学极限下降来提高生产力。催化剂的合成从异金属Pt-Sn配位复合物开始，确保Pt和Sn之间的相互作用在还原和PDH反应期间得以保留。该催化剂具有原子混合的Pt-Sn前体，还原后形成非常小的互金属PtSn纳米粒子，以及避免分离和锡氧化物相形成的硅胶支持的良性相互作用。
          最近在直接脱氢过程中的催化剂设计方面的进展集中在开发稳定和选择性的催化剂，这些催化剂可以在热力学极限下运行。这些催化剂由支持在氧化铝上的铂锡合金纳米颗粒组成，通常需要氢气稀释以防止碳积累，并且需要过量的锡以避免合金分离。然而，这些策略可以降低过程的效率。
          已经开发出一种新的催化剂，它可以在没有氢气稀释的情况下在热力学极限下运行，并且表现出对丙烯的优异稳定性和选择性。这种催化剂由支持在二氧化硅上的Pt1Sn1纳米颗粒组成，合成和预处理以确保在催化操作期间Pt和Sn的混合得以保留。
          这种催化剂合成的原理是开始时使用一个异金属Pt-Sn配位复合物，其中Pt和Sn立即接触，并且这种相互作用在还原和PDH反应期间得以保留。
          新的催化剂在没有向进料中添加氢气的情况下在热力学极限下运行，并且表现出对丙烯的优异稳定性和选择性。这种催化剂由支持在二氧化硅上的Pt1Sn1纳米颗粒组成，合成和预处理以确保在催化操作期间Pt和Sn的混合得以保留。
          商业操作通常稀释丙烷流以增加限制平衡转化率，该转化率在较低的丙烷分压下较高，并且限制催化剂失活率。然而，这种方法需要额外的下游分离单元，并限制过程效率。
          在反应条件下，丙烷转化的热力学极限为66.5%。Pt1Sn1/SiO2催化剂显示出>66%的接近热力学转化和>99%的丙烯选择性。
          在苛刻条件下，丙烷转化率在120分钟内从41降至39%。在相同条件下，其他测试催化剂迅速失活至非常低的转化率。Pt-Sn NPs的TEM图像显示，这些NPs均匀分散，平均粒径为1.6  0.67 nm，与新鲜样品的粒径一致。
          Pt1Sn1/SiO2催化剂可以通过氧化再生，使用1% O2作为温和氧化剂在500C下，然后在600C下还原。再生研究表明，催化剂可以部分再生，经过三次PDH/再生循环后，初始活性为97%，初始选择性>99%。
          氯铂酸和二氯化锡在0.1 M盐酸溶液中的混合形成了异金属Pt-Sn配位复合物。
          在Pt-Sn复合物还原后形成的Pt-Sn NPs在SiO2上的亮场TEM图像显示，金属在支撑上高度分散，平均NP尺寸为1.3  0.6 nm。XRD光谱显示，形成的NPs基本上是Pt和Sn的合金。
          Pt1Sn1/SiO2催化剂的Pt LIII EXAFS实空间光谱与单金属Pt的光谱有显著差异，表明Pt和Sn原子的混合。Pt1Sn1/SiO2催化剂的最佳拟合光谱以Pt-Pt和Pt-Sn散射路径为特征，与PtSn金属间相的形成一致。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
