<quotes>
Dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and propane over Ga2O3ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2 Huiyun Li a,c, Yinghong Yue a, Changxi Miao b, Zaiku Xie b, Weiming Hua a,*, Zi Gao a

Propene is an important raw material for the production of polypropene, polyacrylonitrile, acrolein and acrylic acid.
The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propene is of increasing significance due to the growing demand for propene. Dehydrogenation of propane is an endothermic reaction that requires relatively high temperature to obtain a high yield of propene. However, the high reaction temperature favours thermal cracking reactions to coke and light alkanes, resulting in a decline in product yield and an increase in catalyst deactivation.

In this work, dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and propane over Ga2O3ZrO2 catalysts has been investigated and compared. The catalysts were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, ultraviolet-visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UVVis DRS), X-ray photoelectron spectros-opy (XPS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray (EDX), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), temperature programmed desorption of NH3 and CO2 (NH3-TPD and CO2-TPD) and N2 adsorption methods. The catalytic activities are correlated with the results of surface acidity and basicity measurements.

The dehydrogenation of EB was carried out in the presence of CO2 at 873 K. Styrene is the major product of the reaction, whereas benzene and toluene are minor by-products. The catalysts deactivate rather fast in the first 1 h, followed by a relatively slow decrease in activity. Meanwhile, the selectivity to propene increases progressively with time on stream. Comparison between two dehydrogenation reactions shows that the catalysts deactivate more seriously in propane dehydrogenation than in EB dehydrogenation.

The activity of the ZrO2 catalyst is enhanced markedly after the incorporation of gallium oxide, whereas the selectivity to styrene declines to some extent. The activity of GZ catalysts is ca. 2 times as high as that of ZrO2. As the Ga2O3 content is increased, the conversion of EB on GZ catalysts first increases and then decreases. A maximum of 36.9 conversion appears at a Ga2O3 content of 15%. The selectivity to styrene at the maximum conversion is 93.0%. The same variation trend was observed for the yield of styrene, since the selectivity to styrene is similar.

The dehydrogenation of propane was performed in the presence of CO2 at 873 K. The major product formed in the reaction is propene, and the major by-products are methane, ethane, and ethylene. The catalysts deactivate rather fast in the first 1 h, followed by a relatively slow decrease in activity. The propene yield rises slightly due to the decline in propene selectivity. The different catalytic behavior of GZ catalysts in EB dehydrogenation and propane dehydrogenation with varying the Ga2O3 content could be related to the fact that the former reaction is easier to proceed than the latter one.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propene requires high temperatures, which can lead to thermal cracking reactions, reducing product yields and catalyst stability.
2. The incorporation of gallium oxide into zirconia enhances the activity of the catalyst for the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene in the presence of CO2.
3. The activity of gallium-zirconia oxide catalysts is significantly higher compared to pure zirconia catalysts.
4. The conversion of ethylbenzene increases initially and then decreases with increasing gallium oxide content.
5. The maximum conversion of ethylbenzene occurs at a gallium oxide content of 15%.
6. The selectivity towards styrene increases with the maximum conversion of ethylbenzene.
7. The propane conversion increases with increasing gallium oxide content, indicating that gallium oxide is the major active component for propane dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2.
8. The selectivity towards propene is lower than that towards styrene during the dehydrogenation of propane, indicating a higher risk of side reactions.
9. The catalysts deactivate more rapidly in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethylbenzene dehydrogenation.
10. The role of CO2 in the reaction is to promote the dehydrogenation through the reverse water-gas shift reaction and potentially aid in the elimination of coke through the Boudouard reaction.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 烷基苯在二氧化碳存在的条件下进行脱氢反应，需要较高的温度，这可能会导致热裂解反应，降低产物收率和催化剂稳定性。
2. 在氧化镓加入到氧化锆中后，催化剂的活性显著提高，用于二氧化碳存在的条件下脱氢烷基苯。
3. 氧化镓-氧化锆复合氧化物催化剂相对于纯氧化锆催化剂的活性高两倍左右。
4. 随着氧化镓含量的增加，乙基苯的转化率先增加后减少。
5. 最大转化率出现在氧化镓含量为15%时。
6. 乙基苯转化率达到最大值时，苯乙烯的选择性增加。
7. 随着氧化镓含量的增加，丙烷的转化率增加，表明氧化镓是丙烷脱氢反应在二氧化碳存在的条件下主要活性成分。
8. 苯乙烯的选择性低于丙烯选择性，在丙烷脱氢过程中，更有可能发生副反应。
9. 在二氧化碳存在的条件下，催化剂在丙烷脱氢中的失活速度比在乙基苯脱氢中更快。
10. 二氧化碳在反应中的作用是通过逆水煤气变换反应促进脱氢，并可能通过布杜奥反应帮助去除焦炭。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
