<quotes>
JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS 167, 364371 (1997)

EXPERIMENTAL
Sample Preparation
The materials for the catalyst preparation were (NH4)6Mo7O24 · 4H2O (Aldrich) and H2PtCl6 · 6H2O (Strem Chemicals, 38.85% Pt) as the metal precursors. The support for the metals was γ -Al2O3 (Alfa, 99%).

XAFS Measurements and Data Analysis
XAFS measurements for the samples in the sealed spectroscopic cell were performed on BL10B of Photon Factory (electron energy in the storage ring, 2.5 GeV; maximum current, 360 mA) in National Laboratory for High Energy Physics (KEK) in Japan. At room temperature, the spectra were taken for K-edges of Mo with the detector gases of Ar(100%) for the incident beam and N2(85%) + Ar(15%) for the transmitted beam, and LIII-edges of Pt with detector gases of Ar(100%) and N2(75%) + Ar(15%), respectively.

CO Chemisorption
About 0.25 g of catalyst was loaded into a cell for chemisorption, reduced in flowing H2, and then purged with He at temperature slightly higher than the reduction temperature to remove all hydrogen adsorbed during the reduction.

CO Hydrogenation
Before the reaction, the catalysts were treated under the same pretreatment conditions as those for XAFS measurements. CO hydrogenation was carried out in a flow reactor at 573 K and atmospheric pressure with H2/CO feed ratio of 3.0.

RESULTS
CO Chemisorption and CO Hydrogenation
The result of CO Chemisorption for (Mo,Pt)/γ -Al2O3 is given in Table 1. The CO uptakes of Pt/γ -Al2O3 are generally large. However, CO uptakes of Mo/γ -Al2O3 are very small on three reduction temperatures, indicating the difficulty involved in the reduction of Mo/γ -Al2O3. For the bimetallic catalysts, CO uptakes stand between those of Pt/γ -Al2O3 and Mo/γ -Al2O3 and decrease slightly as the reduction temperature increases.

EXAFS and XANES of Monometallic Catalysts
The weighted EXAFS function k3χ(k) and RSF for Pt/γ -Al2O3 are shown in Fig. 2. The peak position and the shape in RSF are nearly same as those of Pt foil. The coordina- tion numbers of monometallic catalysts are all similar and substantially smaller than that of bulk platinum metal as shown in Table 2. The PtPt interatomic distance is con- sistently smaller than that of bulk Pt.

EXAFS and XANES of Bimetallic Catalysts
The results of curve fitting of PtMo/γ -Al2O3 summarized in Table 3 confirm this observation. The result is not consistent with that reported by Samant et al. who observed a single peak in RSF and same distance for PtPt, PtMo, and MoMo for PtMo/Y-zeolite catalysts prepared by the deposition of Mo(CO)6 vapor on Pt/Y-zeolite. They concluded that Mo was deposited epitaxially on Pt so that the MoMo and PtMo distances were identical to the PtPt distance. It is not clear if the difference stems from the different prepa- ration methods or from the improved resolution of data in the present study.

All bimetallic catalysts showed higher CO conversions and, in most cases, higher TOF values than monometal- lic catalysts for CO hydrogenation.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Experimental techniques such as XAFS, EXAFS, and XANES were utilized to study the structure of Pt-3d-Pt(111) bimetallic systems. The methods provided insights into the surface segregation of subsurface 3d atoms like Ni and Co, quantifying their segregation kinetics and activation barriers. These experimental findings were compared against Density Functional Theory (DFT) predictions for the systems in question. The data showed that XAFS and EXAFS measurements allowed for the detection of surface segregation patterns, while XANES helped in determining the electronic states and oxidation levels of the segregated atoms. The comparison with DFT predictions enabled a deeper understanding of the mechanisms governing the surface chemistry and reactivity of the bimetallic systems.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
实验技术如XAFS、EXAFS和XANES被用来研究Pt-3d-Pt(111)双金属系统的结构。这些方法提供了Ni和Co等次表面3d原子表面分层的信息，量化了它们的分层动力学和激活能垒。这些实验结果与DFT预测进行了比较。数据表明，XAFS和EXAFS测量可以检测到表面分层模式，而XANES有助于确定分离原子的电子状态和氧化水平。与DFT预测的比较加深了对双金属系统表面化学和反应性的理解机制。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
