<quotes>
The effect of Fe on SiO2-supported Pt catalysts: Structure, chemisorptive, and catalytic properties Abstract SiO2-supported PtFe catalysts with a wide range of Pt/Fe ratios were prepared from individual H2PtCl6 and Fe(NO3)3 precursors and characterized by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopies. Treatment with H2 at 350 C leads to the formation of metal particles with average sizes in the order of 2.6 nm, some of which are bimetallic in nature. The fraction of PtFe bimetallic contributions in each sample, the nature and extent of electronic interactions between Pt and Fe, and the strength of the CO adsorption on Pt strongly depend on the Fe content. PtFe/SiO2 samples thus prepared were found to be active catalysts for various reactions taking place in both oxidative and reducing environments, including the oxidation of CO in air, the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane, and the selective hydrogenation of citral. The results indicate that the catalytic behavior of Pt is significantly affected by the presence of Fe. The enhancement of the catalytic activity observed for the oxidation of CO in air correlates with the fraction and degree of electronic PtFe interactions and the strength of CO adsorption on Pt. Similarly, Fe in small concentrations promotes the activity of Pt for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane and the selective hydrogenation of citral, which can be attributed to either an electronic effect and/or the presence of bimetallic PtFe sites. The close proximity between Pt and Fe in such sites leads to the reduction of Fe, which can thus become active for cyclohexane dehydrogenation. Furthermore, it is possible that PtFe adsorption sites favor the di-σCO mode of adsorption for α,β-unsaturated aldehydes, thus promoting the selective hydrogenation of the CO bond and the formation of α,β-unsaturated alcohols.
Graphical abstract A family of PtFe/SiO2 samples with different Pt/Fe ratios was prepared and characterized by hydrogen chemisorption, EXAFS, FTIR and catalytic activity measurements for the oxidation of CO, the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane, and the selective hydrogenation of citral. The fraction of PtFe bimetallic contributions in these samples, the nature and extent of electronic interactions between Pt and Fe, and the strength of the CO adsorption on Pt depend strongly on the Fe content, and in turn, affect significantly the catalytic performance of Pt.
Download: Download high-res image (104KB) Download: Download full-size image
1. Introduction
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The introduction section discusses the importance of supported PtFe bimetallic catalysts in various industrial applications such as hydrogenation of CO, removal of hydrocarbons from auto exhausts, purification of H2 streams, reforming of ethylene glycol to produce hydrogen, and selective hydrogenation of the CO group of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes. It mentions that the catalytic performance of PtFe bimetallic materials is often better than that of monometallic Pt. The introduction also points out that the formation of bimetallic species in supported PtFe catalysts was not always confirmed experimentally, and the effect of Fe on the catalytic properties of SiO2-supported Pt in reactions like oxidation of CO, dehydrogenation of cyclohexane, and selective hydrogenation of citral is the focus of this research.

The introduction highlights the existing knowledge suggesting that the superior catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts may be governed by the size, composition, structure, and morphology of the metal nanoparticles formed, and the electronic effects originating from interactions between the metal constituents. However, the formation of bimetallic species in the case of supported PtFe catalysts was not always confirmed experimentally. The goal of the research is to evaluate systematically the effect of Fe on the catalytic properties of SiO2-supported Pt in reactions taking place in both oxidative and reducing environments.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
引言部分讨论了支持型PtFe双金属催化剂在各种工业应用中的重要性，如CO氢化、汽车尾气中碳氢化合物的去除、H2流体的纯化、乙二醇裂解产生氢气以及α,β不饱和醛基CO团的选择性氢化。它提到双金属材料的催化性能往往优于单金属Pt。引言还指出，在支持型PtFe催化剂中形成双金属物种的实验证据并不总是存在，并且研究的重点是评估SiO2支持的Pt在氧化CO、环己烷脱氢和选择性氢化柠檬醛等反应中的催化性能受铁的影响。

引言强调现有的知识表明，双金属催化剂的优越催化性质可能由金属纳米颗粒的大小、组成、结构和形态决定，以及来自金属组分之间电子效应的产生。然而，关于支持型PtFe催化剂中形成双金属物种的实验证据并不总是存在的。研究的目标是系统地评估铁对SiO2支持的Pt在氧化性和还原性环境下的催化性能的影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
