<quotes>
[1] "Among the more significant potential new uses is its conversion to butanediol via hydrogenation of maleic acid. This chemistry may become economically more favorable than the present acetylene-based chemistry by the 1990s."
[2] "Currently, worldwide production of maleic anhydride is based on the major feedstocks benzene, n-butane, and butenes. Most of the capacity is produced via fixed-bed oxidation of benzene, though benzene is being displaced by butane as a feedstock (all production in the U.S. is butane based), because butane is a lower cost and environmentally more desirable raw material and because butane oxidation produces a cleaner product stream, forming mainly maleic anhydride and carbon oxides."
[3] "Knowledge gained through study and understanding of this system may contribute to advances in alkane activation in general."
[4] "The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a fascinating and complex system. This catalytic system performs a 14-electron oxidation involving the ab"
[5] "In the oxidation of C4 alkene over vanadium phosphorus oxides, several products of partial oxidation are formed and detected, as briefly outlined in the reaction network for the oxidation of but-1-ene in Figure 2."
[6] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by the facile formation of a number of crystalline phases, both of vanadium(1V) and of vanadium(V)."
[7] "The orthophosphate (VOPO4) phases are transformed to (VO)2P207 by reaction with the hydrocarbon mixture."
[8] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is able to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these olefins react further to form partial oxidation products."
[9] "In the C4 alkene oxidation an interesting effect is observed. On increasing the hydrocarbon concentration, the formation of maleic anhydride reaches a maximum and then decreases with a corresponding increase in the formation of butadiene."
[10] "In the case of the catalytic systems utilized by Buchanan and Sndaresan and Ler01-1 the lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation results in the observed higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and the reduced reactivity of the surface in the rate of both n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive oxidation."
[11] "However, when increased n-butane:oxygen ratios are used to observe the formation of intermediate olefin from (Figures 4 and 5),a deeper reduction of the catalyst is seen as reflected by the formation of high amounts of V "
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The conversion of maleic acid to butanediol via hydrogenation could potentially be more economically favorable than current acetylene-based methods by the 1990s.
2. Butane is replacing benzene as the primary feedstock for maleic anhydride production due to its lower cost and environmental benefits.
3. Insights from the study of the n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction could lead to advancements in alkane activation techniques.
4. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a complex process involving a 14-electron oxidation.
5. Partial oxidation products are formed during the oxidation of C4 alkenes over vanadium phosphorus oxides.
6. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system can easily form various crystalline phases.
7. The orthophosphate phases convert to pyrophosphate through reaction with hydrocarbons.
8. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system enables dehydrogenation of n-butane to olefins, which further react to form partial oxidation products.
9. In C4 alkene oxidation, increasing hydrocarbon concentration initially maximizes maleic anhydride formation but then decreases with increased butadiene formation.
10. Higher oxygen concentration increases the rate of maleic anhydride formation due to reduced vanadium surface oxidation in the catalyst.
11. Higher n-butane:oxygen ratios result in deeper catalyst reduction, as indicated by increased V concentrations.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 通过氢化将马来酸转化为丁二醇可能在20世纪90年代比当前的乙炔基方法更具经济效益。
2. 由于成本更低和环境更友好，丁烷正在取代苯作为马来酸酐生产的主原料。
3. 对于n-丁烷向马来酸酐的反应的研究可以促进烷烃活化技术的发展。
4. n-丁烷到马来酸酐的反应涉及一个14电子氧化过程。
5. 在四元烯氧化过程中，部分氧化产物会形成。
6. 钒磷氧化物系统能够轻易地形成各种结晶性相。
7. 通过与碳氢化合物反应，磷酸盐相转换为二磷酸盐。
8. 钒磷氧化物系统允许丁烷脱氢形成烯烃，这些烯烃进一步反应形成部分氧化产物。
9. 在C4烯烃氧化中，随着碳氢化合物浓度的增加，马来酸酐的形成达到最大值，随后在但二烯形成量增加的情况下减少。
10. 增加氧气浓度会提高马来酸酐的形成率，因为催化剂表面的钒氧化速率降低。
11. 更高的n-丁烷：氧气比例会导致催化剂更深的还原，表现为较高的V浓度。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
