Read the questions and answers provided below. First, critically assess the overall relevance of the answers provided to the set of questions asked.

If, upon your assessment, you find that the answers do not contain information that is relevant to the questions asked, stop your review process immediately and respond with a single sentence: "※※※※※※※The provided answers are not relevant to the questions.※※※※※※※". Do not provide any additional explanation or background information, only this sentence should be given as a response in case of irrelevant answers.

If, however, the answers are relevant to the questions asked, proceed to compile answers for each question according to the instructions below. Ensure to aggregate all the relevant answers from the multiple answer results provided in the document, and organize them sequentially by their order number, compiling the corresponding quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question.

If the provided answers' quotes are not differentiated by question, ensure to break them down and assign the quotes to each respective question, outputting them separately within each question's section.

To provide a comprehensive review, differentiate the responses into quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question based on the details given in the 'Answer' XML tags. Structure your review using the XML format showcased below if the answers are relevant to the questions asked:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 1 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 1
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
   <Question number="2">
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 2 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 2 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 2
      </Chinese>
  </Question>
</Questions>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>

How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?
</questions>

Here are the answer lists, in <Answer></Answer>XML tags:
<Answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Under these conditions,as in the case of bubl-ene, the vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deac- tivate,' but becomes more selective (Figure 14b)."
[2] "On the fresh catalyst used by Centi et alJO for their kinetics study, a critical factor governing the selectivity at very high butane conversions is the instability of the formed maleic anhydride in the back end of the cata- lytic bed."
[3] "These results suggest that enhanced formation of Vv at the end of the catalyst bed is directly attributable to the more oxidizing atmosphere present."
[4] "This factor is important only for contact times higher than those required to achieve 100% conversion'44 (presence of only residual 0,in the flow) or for very high oxygenln-butane ratios.'34"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium phosphorus oxide (VPO) systems, significantly impact the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The VPO catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity towards maleic anhydride production when subjected to specific conditions. The instability of maleic anhydride in the catalytic bed, influenced by the presence of a more oxidizing atmosphere, leads to its enhanced formation. This effect is most pronounced under high butane conversion conditions, where the catalyst operates at longer contact times or with high oxygen-to-butane ratios. The catalyst's selectivity and activity are finely tuned by controlling these conditions, enabling efficient conversion of alkanes into valuable chemicals like maleic anhydride.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
金属基催化剂，尤其是钒磷氧化物（VPO）体系，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有显著影响。VPO催化剂在特定条件下表现出对马来酸酐生产的高选择性。在催化床中马来酸酐的不稳定性，受到更氧化气氛的影响，导致其增强形成。这种效应在高丁烷转化率条件下最为明显，催化剂在此时操作于较长的接触时间或高氧/丁烷比下。通过控制这些条件，催化剂的选择性和活性得到了精确调整，从而实现了高效将烷烃转化为有价值的化学品如马来酸酐。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "Among the more significant potential new uses is its conversion to butanediol via hydrogenation of maleic acid. This chemistry may become economically more favorable than the present acetylene-based chemistry by the 1990s."
[2] "Currently, worldwide production of maleic anhydride is based on the major feedstocks benzene, n-butane, and butenes. Most of the capacity is produced via fixed-bed oxidation of benzene, though benzene is being displaced by butane as a feedstock (all production in the U.S. is butane based), because butane is a lower cost and environmentally more desirable raw material and because butane oxidation produces a cleaner product stream, forming mainly maleic anhydride and carbon oxides."
[3] "Knowledge gained through study and understanding of this system may contribute to advances in alkane activation in general."
[4] "The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a fascinating and complex system. This catalytic system performs a 14-electron oxidation involving the ab"
[5] "In the oxidation of C4 alkene over vanadium phosphorus oxides, several products of partial oxidation are formed and detected, as briefly outlined in the reaction network for the oxidation of but-1-ene in Figure 2."
[6] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by the facile formation of a number of crystalline phases, both of vanadium(1V) and of vanadium(V)."
[7] "The orthophosphate (VOPO4) phases are transformed to (VO)2P207 by reaction with the hydrocarbon mixture."
[8] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is able to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these olefins react further to form partial oxidation products."
[9] "In the C4 alkene oxidation an interesting effect is observed. On increasing the hydrocarbon concentration, the formation of maleic anhydride reaches a maximum and then decreases with a corresponding increase in the formation of butadiene."
[10] "In the case of the catalytic systems utilized by Buchanan and Sndaresan and Ler01-1 the lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation results in the observed higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and the reduced reactivity of the surface in the rate of both n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive oxidation."
[11] "However, when increased n-butane:oxygen ratios are used to observe the formation of intermediate olefin from (Figures 4 and 5),a deeper reduction of the catalyst is seen as reflected by the formation of high amounts of V "
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The conversion of maleic acid to butanediol via hydrogenation could potentially be more economically favorable than current acetylene-based methods by the 1990s.
2. Butane is replacing benzene as the primary feedstock for maleic anhydride production due to its lower cost and environmental benefits.
3. Insights from the study of the n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction could lead to advancements in alkane activation techniques.
4. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a complex process involving a 14-electron oxidation.
5. Partial oxidation products are formed during the oxidation of C4 alkenes over vanadium phosphorus oxides.
6. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system can easily form various crystalline phases.
7. The orthophosphate phases convert to pyrophosphate through reaction with hydrocarbons.
8. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system enables dehydrogenation of n-butane to olefins, which further react to form partial oxidation products.
9. In C4 alkene oxidation, increasing hydrocarbon concentration initially maximizes maleic anhydride formation but then decreases with increased butadiene formation.
10. Higher oxygen concentration increases the rate of maleic anhydride formation due to reduced vanadium surface oxidation in the catalyst.
11. Higher n-butane:oxygen ratios result in deeper catalyst reduction, as indicated by increased V concentrations.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 通过氢化将马来酸转化为丁二醇可能在20世纪90年代比当前的乙炔基方法更具经济效益。
2. 由于成本更低和环境更友好，丁烷正在取代苯作为马来酸酐生产的主原料。
3. 对于n-丁烷向马来酸酐的反应的研究可以促进烷烃活化技术的发展。
4. n-丁烷到马来酸酐的反应涉及一个14电子氧化过程。
5. 在四元烯氧化过程中，部分氧化产物会形成。
6. 钒磷氧化物系统能够轻易地形成各种结晶性相。
7. 通过与碳氢化合物反应，磷酸盐相转换为二磷酸盐。
8. 钒磷氧化物系统允许丁烷脱氢形成烯烃，这些烯烃进一步反应形成部分氧化产物。
9. 在C4烯烃氧化中，随着碳氢化合物浓度的增加，马来酸酐的形成达到最大值，随后在但二烯形成量增加的情况下减少。
10. 增加氧气浓度会提高马来酸酐的形成率，因为催化剂表面的钒氧化速率降低。
11. 更高的n-丁烷：氧气比例会导致催化剂更深的还原，表现为较高的V浓度。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deactivates, but becomes more selective."
[2] "It is thus worthwhile to analyze the variations in the catalyst surface as a function of position in the catalytic bed."
[3] "These results suggest that enhanced formation of Vv at the end of the catalyst bed is directly attributable to the more oxidizing atmosphere present."
[4] "The redox properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, which in turn profoundly affects the nature of the products formed in the reaction."
[5] "However, a deeper examination of the dynamics of the working state of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface-induced modifications and catalytic behavior would lead to an even better understanding of the selectivity-controlling properties of these mixed oxides."
[6] "In the oxidation of both n-butane and but-l-ene, partial oxidation products (butadiene in but-l-ene oxidation, or butenes and butadiene in n-butane oxidation) are observed at low oxygen concentrations when a very limited number of vanadium(V) species are present on the surface of the catalyst or when nonequilibrium conditions at reduced pressures are employed."
[7] "The change of valence state of vanadium thus depends upon a balance of three factors: (1) the redox potential of the feed, (2) the rate of oxidation of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction, and (3) the rate of reduction of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction."
[8] "The presence of different valence states of vanadium on the principal X-ray diffraction lines of vanadyl pyrophosphate (P:V = l.0)."
[9] "It is thus possible to modify and study the P:V ratio around the stoichiometric value (P:V = 1.0) without the formation of other crystalline phases."
[10] "At low conversion, the catalysts with P:V ratio 0.95 and 1.01 show the same activity, selectivity, and kinetic behavior."
[11] "For these vanadyl pyrophosphate catalysts, a content of phosphorus lower than required for stoichiometric P:V = 1.0 principally influences the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride, whereas for catalysts with a higher amount of P with respect to P:V = 1.0, the predominant effect is on the rate of formation of maleic anhydride."
[12] "When PVO catalysts were treated in a cyclic fashion with pure O2 followed by butenes, the selectivity in maleic anhydride formation diminished as compared with steady-state behavior."
[13] "Nakamura et al. also suggested that some V5+ ions were necessary for maleic anhydride synthesis, but the optimum mean valence state of catalyst is close to four."
[14] "An increase of P content in the 0.9-1.2 P:V atomic ratio decreases specific activity in n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride yield."
[15] "This suggests a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[16] "The different redox properties of the three catalysts depend upon the preparation procedures."
[17] "However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxidation proceeds further to carbon oxides."
[18] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[19] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are interpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction."
[20] "The first step is suggested to be controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[21] "This is illustrated for catalysts with the same P:V ratio in Figure 20, which shows the rates of Vv formation (Figure 20b) and the corresponding maleic anhydride yields vs butane conversion (Figure 20a)."
[22] "At low conversion and similar rates of Vv formation the catalysts show approximately similar selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidizable catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride decomposition."
[23] "Furthermore, the higher selectivities in the absence of gas-phase oxygen obtained in n-butane conversion in a transport bed reactor are explained on the basis of the absence in these conditions of surface-active species like 0, and 0-."
[24] "The oxygen which can readily oxidize furan is more rapidly depleted than the oxygen available to form furan from butene."
[25] "This suggests that oxygen insertion on the 2,5-positions of furan occurs simultaneously."
[26] "The multipulse experiments performed in the TAP reactor clearly indicate that the PVO catalyst functions with two types of oxygen."
[27] "It is worthy of note that the stability of the intermediate reported in Scheme 3 is very high and it desorbs under vacuum only at very high temperatures."
[28] "This suggests that it cannot desorb as the DHF intermediate, but remains strongly bound to the surface up to final formation of furan (route b of Scheme 2a), which may desorb as an intermediate in the vacuum conditions of TAP experiments."
[29] "This mechanism is a key to the selectivity and the absence of intermediate products in the reaction of n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst becomes more selective at high conversion but deactivates irreversibly under certain conditions.

2. Analyzing the variations in the catalyst surface across the catalytic bed is crucial for understanding selectivity.

3. The enhanced formation of Vv at the catalyst bed's end is due to a more oxidizing environment.

4. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface state, affecting product formation.

5. Further investigation into the catalyst surface dynamics and its relationship with surface-induced modifications can enhance our understanding of selectivity.

6. At low oxygen concentrations, partial oxidation products emerge during n-butane and but-l-ene oxidation.

7. The valence state of vanadium changes based on three factors: feed's redox potential, catalyst's oxidation rate, and its reduction rate.

8. The presence of different valence states of vanadium on the catalyst can alter its properties.

9. The P:V ratio can be modified around the stoichiometric value without forming other phases.

10. Catalysts with a P:V ratio of 0.95 and 1.01 show similar activity and selectivity at low conversion.

11. A phosphorus deficiency influences the rate of maleic anhydride oxidation, while excess phosphorus affects the reduction rate.

12. Cyclic treatment of PVO catalysts with O2 and butenes diminishes selectivity compared to steady-state behavior.

13. Nakamura et al. suggested that some V5+ ions are necessary for maleic anhydride synthesis, with an optimum mean valence state near four.

14. Increasing phosphorus content decreases the catalyst's specific activity in n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride yield.

15. There's a strong link between high conversion selectivity for maleic anhydride and vanadium(V) formation rate.

16. Preparation procedures affect the redox properties of catalysts.

17. When Vv is in excess, oxidation proceeds further to carbon oxides.

18. The relationship between selectivity and vanadium(V) formation rate is strong.

19. Surface modifications due to hydrocarbon interaction and P:V ratio effects are interpreted based on two reaction types.

20. The first step is controlled by Vw reduction, and the second by Vv availability.

21. Rates of Vv formation and maleic anhydride yields vary with butane conversion for catalysts with the same P:V ratio.

22. At high conversion, the more oxidizable catalyst shows a higher rate of maleic anhydride decomposition.

23. In the absence of gas-phase oxygen, higher selectivities are achieved in n-butane conversion due to the lack of surface-active species.

24. Rapid depletion of the oxygen that can oxidize furan occurs faster than the oxygen available for furan formation from butene.

25. Oxygen insertion on the 2,5-positions of furan happens simultaneously.

26. The PVO catalyst functions with two types of oxygen, as indicated by multipulse TAP experiments.

27. The reported intermediate in Scheme 3 is stable and desorbs only at very high temperatures under vacuum conditions.

28. It suggests that the intermediate cannot desorb as the DHF intermediate but remains bound to the surface until furan formation.

29. The described mechanism is crucial for selectivity and the absence of intermediate products in n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 钒磷酸盐催化剂在高转化率下变得更加选择性，但在特定条件下不可逆地失活。

2. 分析催化床中催化剂表面的变化对于理解选择性至关重要。

3. 在催化剂床末端形成更多的Vv是由于更氧化的环境。

4. 反应物的还原性决定了催化剂表面状态，进而影响产物的生成。

5. 进一步研究催化剂表面动态及其与表面诱导修改的关系可以增强我们对选择性的理解。

6. 在低氧浓度下，n-丁烷和1-丁烯的氧化产生部分氧化产物。

7. 钒的价态变化基于三个因素：反应物的还原电位、催化剂的氧化速率以及其还原速率。

8. 催化剂上存在不同价态的钒可以改变其性质。

9. P:V比可以在接近化学计量值（P:V=1.0）的情况下进行调整，而不会形成其他晶相。

10. P:V比例为0.95和1.01的催化剂在低转化率时表现出相似的活性、选择性和动力学行为。

11. 磷缺乏影响甲基丙烯酸酯的氧化速率，而过剩的磷影响还原速率。

12. 将PVO催化剂以纯氧气和1-丁烯循环处理会降低甲基丙烯酸酯的合成选择性。

13. 横山等人提出了某些V5+离子对于甲基丙烯酸酯合成的必要性，但催化剂的最佳平均价态接近四。

14. 磷含量的增加降低了催化剂在n-丁烷消耗和甲基丙烯酸酯产率方面的特定活性。

15. 高转化率下选择性提高与范德华(V)形成速率之间存在着紧密联系。

16. 准备过程影响催化剂的氧化还原性质。

17. 当Vv过剩时，氧化继续进一步到碳氧化物。

18. 表示选择性和Vv形成速率之间的强关联。

19. 由烃类相互作用和P:V比率效果引发的表面修改根据两种不同的反应类型进行解释。

20. 第一步受Vw还原控制，第二步则由Vv可获得量控制。

21. 对于具有相同P:V比率的催化剂，Vv形成速率和甲基丙烯酸酯产量随丁烷转化率变化。

22. 在高转化率下，更具氧化性的催化剂显示出更高的甲基丙烯酸酯分解速率。

23. 缺乏气相氧气时，在运输床反应器中进行n-丁烷转换可以获得更高选择性，这是由于缺乏表面活性物种如0和0-。

24. 能够快速氧化呋喃的氧被迅速耗尽，而非用于从丁烷形成呋喃。

25. 同时发生呋喃上2,5-位置的氧插入。

26. TAP脉冲实验清楚地表明PVO催化剂具有两种类型的氧。

27. 报告在方案3中的中间体非常稳定，并且只有在真空条件下的极高温度下才会脱附。

28. 它表明该中间体不能作为DHF中间体脱附，而是直到形成呋喃时一直牢固地吸附在表面上。

29. 描述的机制对于选择性和无中间产物生成在n-丁烷转化为甲基丙烯酸酯过程中至关重要。

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>

[I] "The demand for this industrially important chemical, used principally in the manufacture of unsaturated polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives, lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceuticals, is expected to grow over the next 5 years, due in part to new uses for this highly functionalized molecule."

[II] "The orthophosphate (VOPO4) phases are transformed to (VO)2P207 by reaction with the hydrocarbon mixture. In this reduction process single V06 octahedra form pairs by loss of oxide anions."

[III] "These two very different approaches to determination of intermediates in n-butane oxidation lead to the same conclusions. The vanadium phosphorus oxides are able to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these olefins react further to form partial oxidation products."

[IV] "The kinetics results of Buchanan and Sundaresan and Lerou fit catalysts of this type. They show very little dependence of the catalytic behavior on a change of the hydrocarbon/oxygen ratio."

[V] "An increase in the oxygen concentration results in an increase in the amount of Vv and of the rate of maleic anhydride formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The demand for the industrially important chemical, which is used primarily in unsaturated polyester resin manufacturing, agricultural chemicals, food additives, lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceuticals, is anticipated to increase in the upcoming five years, partly due to the introduction of new applications for this highly functionalized molecule.

2. The orthophosphate (VOPO4) phases are converted to (VO)2P207 through interaction with the hydrocarbon mixture. In this reduction process, single V06 octahedra form pairs by losing oxide anions.

3. These two distinct methods for identifying intermediates in n-butane oxidation result in identical conclusions. The vanadium phosphorus oxides are capable of dehydrogenating n-butane to form olefins, which then undergo further reactions to produce partial oxidation products.

4. The kinetic results obtained from Buchanan and Sundaresan and Lerou are applicable to catalysts of this kind. These catalysts exhibit minimal dependency of catalytic behavior on alterations in the hydrocarbon/oxygen ratio.

5. An increase in the oxygen concentration leads to an increase in the amount of Vv and the rate of maleic anhydride formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 这种工业上重要的化学品的需求，主要用于不饱和聚酯树脂的制造、农业化学品、食品添加剂、润滑剂添加剂和制药，预计在未来五年内会增长，部分原因是这种高度功能化的分子有了新的应用。

2. 通过与混合烃类物质的反应，正磷酸盐（VOPO4）相转变为（VO）2P207。在这一还原过程中，单个V06八面体形成对数结构，通过失去氧离子。

3. 这两种不同的方法用于确定丁烷氧化中间体的结论是相同的。这些钒磷氧化物能够脱氢丁烷形成烯烃，这些烯烃进一步反应生成部分氧化产物。

4. 布坎南和桑德森以及勒鲁的研究结果适用于这类催化剂。这些催化剂的催化行为对混合碳氢化合物/氧气比例的变化显示出极小的依赖性。

5. 氧气浓度的增加导致Vv含量和马来酸酐形成速率的增加。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deactivates under these conditions, but becomes more selective."
[2] "On the fresh catalyst used by Centi et al. for their kinetics study, a critical factor governing the selectivity at very high butane conversions is the instability of the formed maleic anhydride in the back end of the catalytic bed."
[3] "Enhanced formation of Vv at the end of the catalyst bed is directly attributable to the more oxidizing atmosphere present."
[4] "The recent results of Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons illustrate the important relationship between catalytic behavior and the surface modifications induced by the medium itself."
[5] "In the oxidation of both n-butane and but-l-ene, partial oxidation products (butadiene in but-l-ene oxidation, or butenes and butadiene in n-butane oxidation) are observed at low oxygen concentrations when a very limited number of vanadium(V) species are present on the surface of the catalyst or when nonequilibrium conditions at reduced pressures are employed."
[6] "The change of valence state of vanadium thus depends upon a balance of three factors: (1) the redox potential of the feed, (2) the rate of oxidation of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction, and (3) the rate of reduction of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction."
[7] "However, a deeper examination of the dynamics of the working state of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface-induced modifications and catalytic behavior would lead to an even better understanding of the selectivity-controlling properties of these mixed oxides."
[8] "The binary vanadium phosphorus oxide system is rather complicated because of the great variety of observed phases and the difficulties encountered in the development of successful and reproducible syntheses of pure single phases stable under reaction conditions."
[9] "Improved understanding of the factors determining the structure of PVO has allowed the development of suitable methods of preparation of vanadyl pyrophosphate."
[10] "As illustrated in Figures 17 and 18, the variation of the content of P in the composition modifies the catalytic properties in n-butane oxidation and butene oxidation and the redox properties of the catalysts."
[11] "The strong increase of the rate of vanadium oxidation in the phosphorus-deficient catalyst leads to an enhancement of the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride (effect on the selectivity), whereas the decreased rate of reduction of vanadium in the catalyst with higher P content than a stoichiometric one leads to the reduced rate of hydrocarbon depletion (effect on the activity)."
[12] "It is reasonable to correlate these catalytic effects with the redox properties of the catalyst."
[13] "The results of surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are interpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride: a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation up to adsorbed butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this intermediate."
[14] "The first step is suggested to be controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second step is controlled by the amount of Vv available."
[15] "These data suggest a strong relationship between selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and rate of formation of vanadium(V)."
[16] "Highly reactive surface oxygen (weakly adsorbed oxygen and/or Activated oxygen species (O*) were indicated also by Ebner et al. to be responsible for the butane activation step."
[17] "Oxygen chemisorption experiments suggest that much of the surface vanadium in (VO)2P207 is available for oxygen chemisorption. Around 1 oxygen molecule was adsorbed per 3 surface vanadiums."
[18] "The stability of the intermediate reported in Scheme 3 is very high and it desorbs under vacuum only at very high temperatures."
[19] "The multipulse experiments performed in the TAP reactor clearly indicate that the PVO catalyst functions with two types of oxygen."
[20] "The role of adsorbed oxygen was investigated also by infrared spectroscopy."
[21] "In the fresh catalysts lattice oxygen is very easily lost due to defects in the structure."
[22] "With an equilibrated catalyst, lattice oxygen is not as labile and can perform only reactions of allylic dehydration and of oxygen insertion with ring closure to form furan."
[23] "The nature of the oxygen species involved in the synthesis of maleic anhydride may be interpreted in light of the different kinetic behaviors of fresh and equilibrated catalysts."
[24] "The role of adsorbed oxygen was investigated also by infrared spectroscopy."
[25] "The formation of strongly adsorbed species was detected in pulse reactor tests from the loss of carbon balance and in the TAP transient experiments."
[26] "The formation of this strongly bound species thus modifies the working state of (V0),P2O7 in steady-state reaction conditions for n-butane oxidation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly deactivates under certain conditions but becomes more selective. The instability of maleic anhydride at the back end of the catalytic bed is a critical factor in selectivity at high butane conversions.

2. The redox properties of the catalyst are influenced by the balance of the redox potential of the feed, the rate of catalyst oxidation, and the rate of catalyst reduction.

3. Understanding the structure of PVO catalysts has allowed for the development of suitable preparation methods for vanadyl pyrophosphate.

4. The content of P in the composition of the catalyst modifies its catalytic properties in n-butane and butene oxidation.

5. The strong increase of vanadium oxidation in a phosphorus-deficient catalyst enhances the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride, affecting selectivity. 

6. The redox properties of the catalyst correlate with its catalytic effects.

7. A strong relationship exists between the selectivity for maleic anhydride at high conversion and the rate of vanadium(V) formation.

8. Weakly adsorbed oxygen and activated oxygen species play a role in butane activation.

9. Much of the surface vanadium in PVO catalysts is available for oxygen chemisorption.

10. The stability of the intermediate in the activation process is high, only desorbing under vacuum at very high temperatures.

11. The PVO catalyst functions with two types of oxygen under different conditions.

12. The formation of strongly adsorbed species can modify the working state of the catalyst in steady-state reactions.

13. Adsorbed oxygen species have been studied using infrared spectroscopy.

14. In fresh catalysts, lattice oxygen is easily lost due to structural defects.

15. Equilibrated catalysts exhibit different reactivity patterns compared to fresh ones.

16. Infrared spectroscopy provides insights into the nature of adsorbed species on the catalyst surface.

17. The lattice oxygen is less labile in equilibrated catalysts and participates in specific reactions.

18. The synthesis of maleic anhydride species can be influenced by the catalyst's dynamic response to reaction conditions.

19. Adsorbed oxygen species are crucial for the activation of alkanes and the synthesis of maleic anhydride.

20. The complex nature of the vanadium-phosphorus oxide system is due to the variety of observed phases and challenges in synthesizing stable single-phase catalysts.

21. Improved understanding of PVO structure has led to the development of methods for preparing active vanadyl pyrophosphate.

22. The content of phosphorus affects the catalytic properties and redox behavior of the catalyst.

23. The relationship between the catalyst's kinetic behavior and surface modifications is significant for understanding selectivity-controlling properties.

24. The role of oxygen in the activation of alkanes and the synthesis of maleic anhydride is complex.

25. The formation of strongly adsorbed species can alter the catalyst's steady-state reaction conditions.

26. The working state of the catalyst is modified by the formation of strongly bound species during n-butane oxidation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在某些条件下，范德酰基磷酸盐催化剂迅速失活但变得更加选择性。形成马来酸酐在催化床末端的不稳定性是高丁烷转化时选择性的关键因素。

2. 催化剂的还原性质由喂料的还原电势、催化剂氧化速率和催化剂还原速率的平衡决定。

3. 对于理解PVO催化剂的结构，已经开发出适合准备活性范德酰基磷酸盐的方法。

4. 催化剂组成中的P含量修改其在正丁烷和异丁烯氧化中的催化性质。

5. 强度增加的范德华氧化在磷缺乏的催化剂中增强连续氧化马来酸酐的速率，影响选择性。

6. 催化剂的红氧化性质与其催化效果相关联。

7. 高转换率下选择性对马来酸酐的强烈关系在于形成范德华（V）的速率。

8. 弱吸附氧和激活氧物种在乙烷激活中起作用。

9. 在PVO催化剂的表面，大约每三个表面钒原子吸附一个氧气分子。

10. 中间体的稳定性很高，在真空条件下只有在非常高的温度下才会脱附。

11. PVO催化剂在不同条件下具有两种类型的氧气。

12. 新鲜催化剂中的晶格氧由于结构缺陷很容易丢失。

13. 平衡催化剂表现出与反应条件动态响应不同的行为。

14. 红外光谱为了解催化剂表面的吸附物种提供了见解。

15. 在新鲜催化剂中，晶格氧由于结构缺陷而容易丢失。

16. 平衡催化剂与新鲜催化剂相比表现出不同的反应特性。

17. 红外光谱提供了关于催化剂表面吸附物种的性质。

18. 在稳定状态反应条件下，吸附氧物种对于烷烃的激活和马来酸酐的合成至关重要。

19. 吸附氧物种在烷烃激活和马来酸酐合成中起着复杂的作用。

20. PVO系统复杂性是由于观察到的相的多样性和在反应条件下合成稳定单一相催化剂的挑战。

21. 对于理解控制选择性的性质，已经开发出方法来准备活性范德酰基磷酸盐。

22. 磷的含量影响催化剂的催化特性和红氧化行为。

23. 催化剂的动态响应于反应条件之间的关系对于理解选择性的控制属性至关重要。

24. 氧在烷烃激活和马来酸酐合成中的作用是复杂的。

25. 形成强吸附物种可以改变催化剂的稳定状态反应条件。

26. 期间正丁烷氧化的催化剂工作状态被强结合物种的形成所改变。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "The demand for this industrially important chemical, used principally in the manufacture of unsaturated polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives, lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceuticals, is expected to grow over the next 5 years, due in part to new uses for this highly functionalized molecule."
[2] "Among the more significant potential new uses is its conversion to butanediol via hydrogenation of maleic acid."
[3] "This chemistry may become economically more favorable than the present acetylene-based chemistry by the 1990s."
[4] "Currently, worldwide production of maleic anhydride is based on the major feedstocks benzene, n-butane, and butenes."
[5] "Most of the capacity is produced via fixed-bed oxidation of benzene, though benzene is being displaced by butane as a feedstock."
[6] "However, productivity from n-butane is lower due to lower selectivities to maleic anhydride at higher conversions and the somewhat lower feed concentrations (less than 2 molar %) used to avoid flammability of process streams."
[7] "The use of an organic solvent during preparation as opposed to an aqueous system results in differing degrees of crystallinity and defect structure of the resulting active phase."
[8] "The final P/V ratio of the active phase may he varied and has been the subject of numerous publications."
[9] "Recent advances in understanding the solid-state chemistry of PVO have allowed studies of this reaction with well-characterized, reproducible compositions."
[10] "The reaction sequences may be determined by using controlled conditions and TAP (temporal analysis of products)."
[11] "Compared to other industrially practiced hydrocarbon selective oxidation reactions, it is the most complex."
[12] "Knowledge gained through study and understanding of this system may contribute to advances in alkane activation in general."
[13] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by the facile formation of a number of crystalline phases, both of vanadium(IV) and of vanadium(V)."
[14] "The orthophosphate (VOPO4) phases are transformed to (VO)2P2O7 by reaction with the hydrocarbon mixture."
[15] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is able to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these olefins react further to form partial oxidation products."
[16] "The kinetics studies found an order of reaction 1 for the dependence of the rate of n-butane depletion upon hydrocarbon partial pressure."
[17] "The more relevant are the reaction order for the dependence of the rates on oxygen partial pressure and the activation energies of the different rates."
[18] "Lower activation energies were found by Wohlfahrt and Hfmann and by Centi et al., whereas higher activation energies were reported by Buchanan and Sundaresan and Lerou."
[19] "The dependence of the maleic anhydride yield on the conversion shows a well-defined maximum for a conversion of about 80%."
[20] "An increase in conversion drastically decreases the yield of maleic anhydride to around 10% for total conversion."
[21] "The decrease of selectivity to maleic anhydride parallels an increase of the ratio of residual concentration of oxygen to n-butane."
[22] "The rate of oxidation of V4+ to V5+ is higher than in the other catalysts utilized."
[23] "In the case of the catalytic systems utilized by Buchanan and Sundaresan and Lerou, the lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation results in the observed higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and the reduced reactivity of the surface in the rate of both n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive oxidation."
[24] "The comparison of these kinetics results stresses the importance of surface catalyst redox level in determining the catalytic behavior (selectivity to maleic anhydride) as well as the role of the redox properties of vanadium (evidenced by the different activation energies) in determining the activity of the catalyst."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The demand for maleic anhydride, used in various industries, is anticipated to rise over the next five years due to new applications of the molecule.
2. Maleic anhydride conversion to butanediol via hydrogenation of maleic acid could become more economically favorable by the 1990s compared to current acetylene-based processes.
3. Worldwide production of maleic anhydride relies on benzene, n-butane, and butenes as feedstocks, with butane gaining preference for its lower cost and environmental benefits.
4. Fixed-bed oxidation of benzene is the predominant method for producing maleic anhydride, although butane is increasingly favored despite its lower selectivity at higher conversions.
5. The use of organic solvents in preparation leads to different crystallinity and defect structures in the active phase compared to aqueous systems.
6. The P/V atomic ratio of the active phase can vary and has been a subject of numerous studies.
7. Recent advancements in understanding the solid-state chemistry of PVO catalysts enable detailed examination with well-characterized compositions.
8. Steady-state and transient conditions can be used to determine reaction sequences and intermediates in n-butane oxidation.
9. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is more complex than other hydrocarbon selective oxidation processes.
10. Insights from this system could contribute to advancements in alkane activation techniques.
11. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is marked by the easy formation of multiple crystalline phases, both of vanadium(IV) and vanadium(V).
12. The orthophosphate phases transform to pyrophosphate through interaction with the hydrocarbon mixture.
13. The catalyst system facilitates the dehydrogenation of n-butane to olefins, which then undergo further oxidation to form partial products.
14. Kinetic studies have shown a first-order dependence of n-butane depletion on its partial pressure.
15. The order of reaction for oxygen dependence varies among studies, with activation energies correlating to the observed oxygen concentration effects.
16. Lower activation energies were reported for Wohlfahrt and Hfmann and Centi et al.'s catalysts, while higher values were noted for Buchanan and Sundaresan's and Lerou's systems.
17. The maximum maleic anhydride yield corresponds to about 80% conversion.
18. Total conversion significantly reduces the yield of maleic anhydride to around 10%.
19. The ratio of residual oxygen to n-butane concentration correlates with the decrease in maleic anhydride selectivity.
20. The higher rate of V4+ to V5+ conversion is observed in certain catalyst systems.
21. The lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation in other systems results in a higher oxygen concentration dependence and reduced reactivity in both n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride oxidation.
22. The comparison of kinetic behaviors highlights the importance of catalyst redox levels in determining its performance and the role of vanadium redox properties in activity.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 这种工业上重要的化学物质，主要用于不饱和聚酯树脂、农业化学品、食品添加剂、润滑油添加剂和制药的生产，预计未来五年需求将增长，部分原因是这种高度功能化的分子有了新的用途。
2. 其中一个更重要的潜在新用途是将其转化为丁二醇，通过氢化马来酸。
3. 到1990年代，这种化学过程可能在经济上比当前的乙炔基化学过程更有利。
4. 目前，全球马来酸酐的生产基于苯、异丁烷和丁烯为主要原料。
5. 大部分产能通过固定床氧化苯生产，尽管苯正在被异丁烷取代作为原料，因为异丁烷成本更低且环境更友好，并且氧化异丁烷能产生更清洁的产品流，主要形成马来酸酐和二氧化碳。
6. 异丁烷的生产力较低，因为较高转化率时选择性较低到马来酸酐，以及使用的浓度（少于2摩尔%）较低以避免过程流体的可燃性。
7. 在准备过程中使用有机溶剂而不是水系统导致结果活性相的不同结晶性和缺陷结构。
8. 最终的P/V原子比活性相可以变化，并成为多个出版物的主题。
9. 近期对PVO催化剂体系的理解进展允许使用具有良好表征和可重复组成的反应进行研究。
10. 使用控制条件和TAP（产品时间分析）可以确定反应序列。
11. 与其他工业实践的烃选择性氧化反应相比，它是最复杂的。
12. 对这个系统的研究可能为一般烷烃激活技术带来进步。
13. 钒磷氧化物体系由易于形成的多种晶态相组成，既有钒(IV)也有钒(V)。
14. 磷酸盐（VOPO4）相通过与混合物的反应转化为（VO）2P2O7。
15. 钒磷氧化物体系能够使异丁烷脱氢为烯烃，这些烯烃进一步氧化形成部分氧化产物。
16. 气体压力下n-丁烷消耗的速率依赖于其第一阶反应。
17. 氧气浓度依赖性的速率顺序以及不同速率的活化能有所不同。
18. Wohlfahrt和Hfmann以及Centi等人报告的催化剂的活化能较低，而Buchanan和Sundaresan以及Lerou报告的系统则较高。
19. 转化率对马来酸酐产量的影响显示最大值约为80%。
20. 总转化率显著降低马来酸酐产量至约10%。
21. 残余氧浓度与n-丁烷的比例与马来酸酐选择性的下降成正比。
22. 高的V4+到V5+转换率在某些催化剂系统中观察到。
23. 在Buchanan和Sundaresan以及Lerou所使用的催化剂系统中，较低的表面钒氧化速率导致氧气浓度依赖性的更高反应次序和两个n-丁烷耗尽和马来酸酐连续氧化的较低表面反应性。
24. 这些动力学结果的比较强调了催化剂还原水平在决定催化行为（马来酸酐选择性）中的重要性，以及钒还原性质在确定催化剂活性中的作用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "Under these conditions,as in the case of bubl-ene, the vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deac- tivate,' but becomes more selective (Figure 14b)."
[2] "It is thus worthwhile to analyze the variations in the catalyst surface as a function of position in the catalytic bed."
[3] "These results suggest that enhanced formation of Vv at the end of the catalyst bed is directly attributable to the more oxidizing atmosphere present."
[4] "On equilibrated catalysts, this effect is much less evident,due to the reduced rate of vanadium oxidation to Vv."
[5] "In the oxidation of both n-butane and but-l-ene, partial oxidation products (butadiene in but-l-ene oxidation,or butenes and butadiene in n-butane oxidation) are observed at low oxygen concentrations when a very limited number of vanadium(V) species are present on the surface of the catalyst."
[6] "The redox properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, which in turn profoundly affects the nature of the products formed in the reaction."
[7] "Literature results are in line with these conclusions."
[8] "The change of valence state of vanadium thus de- pends upon a balance of three factors: (1) the redox potential of the feed, (2) the rate of oxidation of the catalyst at the temperature of reaction, and (3) the rate of reduction of the catalyst at the temperature of re- action."
[9] "The recent results of Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C , Hydrocarbons u ."
[10] "The binary vanadium phosphorus oxide system is rather"
[11] "As illustrated in Figures 17 and 18, the variation of the content of P in 68 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1"
[12] "At low conversion, the catalysts with P:V ratio 0.95 and 1.01 show the same activity, selectivity, and kinetic behav- ior."
[13] "On the other hand, an excess of phosphorus only slightly influences the rate of oxidation, but strongly affects the rate of reduction."
[14] "In order to correlate the observed var- iations in the redox properties with the catalytic be- havior in n-butane oxidation on the fresh catalyst used by these authors,"
[15] "For these vanadyl pyrophosphate  a t a l y s t s ,    J a content of phosphorus lower than required for sto- chiometric P:V = 1.0 principally influences the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride, whereas for catalysts with a higher amount of P with respect to P:V = 1.0,the predominant effect is on the rate of formation of maleic anhydride."
[16] "When PVO catalysts were treated in a cyclic fashion with pure O2 followed by butenes, the selectivity in maleic anhydride formation diminished as compared with steady-state behavior."
[17] "Similar conclusions were presented recently by Wenig and Schrader41 studying the effect of phosphorus on the kinetic be- havior of PVO catalysts in n-butane oxidation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst shows reversible deactivation under certain conditions but becomes more selective. The catalyst surface varies with position in the catalytic bed.
2. Analyzing the catalyst surface's variations across the bed is crucial for understanding the catalyst's behavior.
3. Enhanced formation of Vv at the catalyst bed's end is due to a more oxidizing atmosphere.
4. Equilibrated catalysts exhibit less pronounced effects due to reduced vanadium oxidation.
5. Partial oxidation products emerge during n-butane and but-l-ene oxidation at low oxygen concentrations.
6. Redox properties of the feed significantly impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, influencing the products' nature.
7. Literature findings align with these conclusions about vanadium valence state changes.
8. Vanadium valence state depends on three factors: redox potential, catalyst oxidation rate, and catalyst reduction rate.
9. New results on maleic anhydride synthesis from C, hydrocarbons are noteworthy.
10. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is complex.
11. Catalyst variations are observed in relation to phosphorus content.
12. Catalysts with similar P:V ratios display consistent activity, selectivity, and kinetic behavior at low conversion.
13. Phosphorus excess influences oxidation and reduction rates differently.
14. Correlating redox properties with n-butane oxidation behavior on fresh catalysts is important.
15. Lower phosphorus content affects the rate of consecutive maleic anhydride oxidation, while higher content primarily impacts maleic anhydride formation rates.
16. Cyclic treatment of PVO catalysts diminishes maleic anhydride selectivity compared to steady-state behavior.
17. Recent studies by Wenig and Schrader highlight phosphorus's effect on PVO catalyst kinetic behavior in n-butane oxidation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在某些条件下，范德亚磷酸盐催化剂表现出可逆失活，但变得更加选择性。催化剂床的位置会变化。
2. 分析催化床中催化剂表面的变化是理解催化剂行为的关键。
3. 催化剂床末端形成更多的Vv归因于更氧化的大气环境。
4. 平衡催化剂显示出较少的明显效果，因为vanadium的氧化率较低。
5. 在低氧浓度下进行丁烷和丁烯-1氧化时，会出现部分氧化产物。
6. 反应物的还原性对催化剂表面的氧化状态有重大影响，进而深刻影响反应产物的性质。
7. 文献结果与关于vanadium价态变化的结论一致。
8. vanadium价态取决于三个因素：还原电势、催化剂氧化速率和催化剂还原速率。
9. 最近有关从C,烃合成马来酸酐的新结果值得关注。
10. 铀磷氧化物系统相当复杂。
11. 观察到催化剂随磷含量的变化。
12. 具有相似P:V比率的催化剂在低转化率下的活动性、选择性和动力学行为保持一致。
13. 磷过剩影响氧化和还原速率的方式不同。
14. 将红氧化性性质与新鲜催化剂上n-丁烷氧化的行为相关联非常重要。
15. 较低的磷含量主要影响连续马来酸酐氧化的速度，而较高含量的磷主要影响马来酸酐的形成速度。
16. 对PVO催化剂进行周期性的纯氧气处理会降低马来酸酐的选择性，与稳态行为相比。
17. Wenig和Schrader最近的研究强调了磷对PVO催化剂在n-丁烷氧化中的动力学行为的影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "Chem. Rev. 1988, 88, 55-80"
[2] "The demand for this industrially important chemical,used principally in the manufacture of unsaturated polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives,lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceutical,'- is ex- pected to grow over the next 5 years, due in part to new uses for this highly functionalized molecule."
[3] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by facile formation of a number of crystalline phases, both of vanadium(IV) and of vanadium(V)."
[4] "The P:V ratio of the active phase may he varied and has been the subject of nu- merous publication?"
[5] "Optimal performance properties are associated with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion."
[6] "The results of Buchanan et al.,22 Johnson et al.?lJ1l Pepera et al.,129 and Trifirb et a1.60J096J05J30 agree with the identification of vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase in n-butane oxidation."
[7] "We may assume in the following discussion of the mechanism of n-butane conversion that these last results are really representative of the equilibrated active phase."
[8] "In the oxidation of C4 olefins over vanadium phosphorus oxides, several products of partial oxidation are formed and detected,136 as briefly outlined in the re- action network for the oxidation of but-1-ene in Figure"
[9] "Comparison of initial activities at non-steady-state condition' suggests the ratio of the rate of butene oxidation to the rate of butane oxidation (assuming first-order kinetics for both reagents) is higher than 50."
[10] "In the case of the catalytic systems utilized by Bu- chanan and Sndaresan' and L e r o P the lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation results in the observed higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and the reduced reactivity of the surface in the rate of both n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive oxidation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The document is a review article discussing the synthesis of maleic anhydride from C4 hydrocarbons using phosphorus vanadium oxide catalysts. It covers various aspects including the catalyst's structure, reaction mechanisms, and kinetic studies.
2. The demand for maleic anhydride, a crucial chemical used in diverse industries, is anticipated to rise over the next five years due to new applications and growing usage.
3. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by the easy formation of multiple crystalline phases, both of vanadium(IV) and vanadium(V).
4. The phosphorus to vanadium (P:V) atomic ratio of the active phase can vary and has been a topic of numerous publications.
5. Optimal performance of the catalysts is associated with those containing 4 to 9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion.
6. The vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase in the n-butane oxidation process, according to the findings of Buchanan et al., Johnson et al., Pepera et al., and Trifirb et al.
7. The last results regarding the P:V ratio and the catalyst's structure are considered representative of the equilibrated active phase in the discussion of n-butane conversion mechanisms.
8. In the oxidation of C4 olefins using vanadium phosphorus oxides, multiple products of partial oxidation are formed and detected, as illustrated in the reaction network for the oxidation of but-1-ene.
9. The ratio of the rate of butene oxidation to the rate of butane oxidation, assuming first-order kinetics for both reagents, is higher than 50 under certain conditions.
10. In the catalytic systems used by Buchanan and Sundaresan and Lerou, the lower rate of vanadium surface oxidation leads to a higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and reduced reactivity in the rates of n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive oxidation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 本文是一篇综述文章，讨论了从C4烃类合成马来酸酐使用磷钒氧化物催化剂的合成。它涵盖了催化剂结构、反应机制和动力学研究等各个方面。
2. 马来酸酐作为在不同行业中关键的化学品，其需求在未来五年预计会增长，部分原因是由于新应用和使用量的增加。
3. 磷钒氧化物系统以易于形成多种结晶相而著称，这些相包括四价钒和五价钒。
4. 活性相的磷到钒（P:V）原子比可以变化，并且是多个出版物的主题。
5. 性能最佳的催化剂包含4到9个V(V)离子每4个V(IV)离子。
6. 根据Buchanan等人的研究，Johnson等人，Pepera等人的研究和Trifirb等人的研究，vanadyl pyrophosphate被确认为n-丁烷氧化过程中的活性相。
7. 关于P:V比率和催化剂结构的最后结果被认为是代表了平衡活性相在n-丁烷转换机制讨论中的代表。
8. 在使用磷钒氧化物的C4烯烃氧化中，形成并检测到多种部分氧化产物，如但在-1-烯的氧化反应网络所示。
9. 假设但烯氧化速率与但烷氧化速率的比率大于50，在某些条件下，当氧气浓度较高时。
10. 在Buchanan和Sundaresan以及Lerou所使用的催化体系中，较低的钒表面氧化速率导致氧气浓度的更高反应级数和n-丁烷消耗以及马来酸酐连续氧化的反应速率的降低。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
(Figure 14a.)'33 Under these conditions,as in the case of bubl-ene, the vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deac- tivate,' but becomes more selective (Figure 14b).

(legend: (1) ethane, (2) propane, (3) n-butane, (4) n-pentane, (5) n-hexane, (6) n-heptane, (7) 2-methylbutane, (8) cyclohexane.)

On the fresh catalyst used by Centi et alJO for their kinetics study, a critical factor governing the selectivity at very high butane conversions is the instability of the formed maleic anhydride in the back end of the catalytic bed. It is thus worthwhile to analyze the variations in the catalyst surface as a function of position in the catalytic bed.'"J3' 

It is known from the literature that 0- and 0,species (one oxygen molecule may be activated by accepting electrons from the solid or alternatively, 0- species may form by decomposition of N20) are very reactive in the oxidative dehydrogenation and activation of light alkane.'-lO

On (b) catalyst the two bands at 396 K (2328 and 2300 cm-') were assigned to coordinatively bonded acetonitrile on very strong Lewis sites. On (a) catalyst the two bands at 2280 and 2300 cm-' were attributed to coordinatively bonded acetonitrile on medium-strong Lewis sites.

In order to correlate the observed var- iations in the redox properties with the catalytic be- havior in n-butane oxidation on the fresh catalyst used by these authors,136 it is necessary to distinguish be- tween tests at low conversion (lower than 10%) where the reducing power of the reagent mixture is higher and catalytic tests at high conversion (Figure 17).

At low conversion, the catalysts with P:V ratio 0.95 and 1.01 show the same activity, selectivity, and kinetic behav- ior.I3l However, at high conversion of n-butane (80%) the catalyst deficient in phosphorus and with the ob- served higher rate of vanadium oxidation forms pri- marily carbon oxides. 

For these vanadyl pyrophosphate  a t a l y s t s ,    J a content of phosphorus lower than required for sto- chiometric P:V = 1.0 principally influences the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride, whereas for catalysts with a higher amount of P with respect to P:V = 1.0,the predominant effect is on the rate of formation of maleic anhydride.

The strong increase of the rate of vanadium oxidation in the phosphorus-deficient catalyst leads to an enhancement of the rate of consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride (effect on the selectivity),whereas the decreased rate of reduction of vanadium in the catalyst with higher P content than a stoichiometric one leads to the reduced rate of hydrocarbon depletion (effect on the activity).

In the pulse redox studieslZ9 it was observed that on the surface of vanadyl pyro- phosphate during n-butane conversion under anaerobic conditions, strongly adsorbed species form that do not desorb at the reaction temperature (400 O C ). Sending pulses of pure O,,in fact, the formation of carbon oxides, was observed, and the amount shows a maximum as a function of the number of pulses. 

These strongly adsorbed species are significantly oxidized and that the combustion of this material is preceded by the reoxidation of the catalyst surface. A significant implication of these results is that the migrationfexchange of the oxygen-containing species in the surface layer is faster than the oxidation of these adsorbed species.

Similar conclusions may be obtained on the basis of TAP transient experiments using multipulse experi- m e n t  .   * In particular, in the pulse redox studieslZ9 it was observed that on the surface of vanadyl pyro- phosphate during n-butane conversion under anaerobic conditions, strongly adsorbed species form that do not desorb at the reaction temperature (400 O C ). Sending pulses of pure O,,in fact, the formation of carbon oxides, was observed, and the amount shows a maximum as a function of the number of pulses. 
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst shows more selectivity under conditions of high butane conversion. The instability of the formed maleic anhydride governs the selectivity at very high butane conversions.

2. The redox properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation state of the catalyst, which profoundly affects the nature of the products formed in the reaction.

3. The valence state of vanadium is crucial for the efficiency of alkane transformations, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. 

4. Metal-exchanged zeolites play a role in controlling the redox potential of the catalyst surface, affecting the efficiency of alkane transformations.

5. The structure of the metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, is critical for their industrial significance in alkane transformations.

6. The surface structure of vanadyl pyrophosphate catalysts is optimized for alkane activation and selective oxidation, enabling high selectivities and yields.

7. The dynamic response of the vanadyl pyrophosphate surface to the redox potential of the feed is a key feature influencing the efficiency of alkane transformations.

8. The redox properties of the catalyst surface are modified by the adsorption of organic molecules and oxygen species, affecting the catalyst's reactivity.

9. The selectivity of alkane transformations is influenced by the different reducing power of hydrocarbons, necessitating different reaction conditions for optimal redox properties.

10. The surface of the catalyst can charge with oxygen prior to alkane reaction, minimizing maleic anhydride destruction in the butane leg of the reactor, contributing to higher selectivities and yields.

11. The binding of intermediates until product formation is essential for high selectivities in alkane transformations, exemplified in the oxidation of methane to formaldehyde.

12. The industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations lies in their unique and specific surface structures and mechanisms, enabling high selectivities and yields.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在高丁烷转化条件下，范德酰基磷酸盐催化剂表现出更高的选择性。形成的马来酸酐的不稳定性决定了非常高的丁烷转化的选择性。

2. 催化剂表面的氧化状态受到反应介质的还原电位的影响，这深刻地影响了反应产物的性质。

3. 铝酸盐基催化剂的价态对于烷烃转换，尤其是氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应的效率至关重要。

4. 含有金属交换的沸石在控制催化剂表面的氧化还原潜力方面起着关键作用，从而影响烷烃转换的效率。

5. 金属基催化剂结构，包括支持的钒氧化物和金属交换的沸石，在烷烃转换的工业重要性中起着核心作用。

6. 范德酰基磷酸盐催化剂的表面结构优化了烷烃活化和选择性氧化，实现了高选择性和产率。

7. 催化剂表面对反应介质的还原电位的动态响应是影响烷烃转换效率的关键特性。

8. 有机分子和氧物种吸附到催化剂表面修改了其还原性，影响催化剂的活性。

9. 烷烃转换的选择性受不同烃的还原能力的影响，需要不同的反应条件以达到最佳还原性。

10. 催化剂表面在烷烃反应前可以充电氧气，但但在丁烷段的反应中，马来酸酐破坏最小，由于低氧气和有限的回流，导致更高的选择性和产率。

11. 直到形成产物之前，中间体的绑定是实现高选择性烷烃转换的关键，例如甲烷氧化为甲醛的过程。

12. 金属基催化剂在烷烃转换中的工业重要性在于它们独特的和特定的表面结构和机制，能够实现高选择性和产率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>

[I] "The demand for this industrially important chemical, used principally in the manufacture of unsaturated polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives, lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceuticals, is expected to grow over the next 5 years, due in part to new uses for this highly functionalized molecule."

[II] "Currently, worldwide production of maleic anhydride is based on the major feedstocks benzene, n-butane, and butenes."

[III] "However, productivity from n-butane is lower due to lower selectivities to maleic anhydride at higher conversions and the somewhat lower feed concentrations (less than 2 molar %) used to avoid flammability of process streams."

[IV] "In the past few years, development of fluid bed butane-based systems has been reported. These systems offer the advantage of operation at higher butane concentrations (up to 4%) and thus lower original capital costs."

[V] "The recently developed DuPont transport bed technology may be the most economically favorable route for maleic production in the 1990s. This process operates at lower conversions per pass and with higher selectivities than normally encountered in fixed or fluid bed systems, and uses a unique attrition resistance system."

[VI] "All catalysts used industrially for the production of maleic anhydride from butane are PVO-based systems."

[VII] "The preparation of vanadium phosphorus oxides was the subject of a recent review by Huddett, and older data on these catalysts have been reviewed by Varma and Saraf."

[VIII] "The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is characterized by facile formation and interconversion of a number of crystalline V(IV) and V(V) phases."

[IX] "Optimal performance properties are associated with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion."

[X] "In the oxidation of n-butane, the rate-determining step is the activation of n-butane."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The demand for maleic anhydride, primarily used in unsaturated polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives, lubricating oil additives, and pharmaceuticals, is anticipated to increase in the coming years due to new applications for this highly functionalized molecule.

2. Currently, the majority of maleic anhydride production relies on benzene, n-butane, and butenes as feedstocks.

3. The efficiency in producing maleic anhydride from n-butane is lower due to decreased selectivity at higher conversion levels and the lower feed concentrations (below 2 molar %) employed to prevent process stream flammability.

4. Recent advancements in fluid bed systems for butane-based production offer benefits like higher butane concentration (up to 4%) and reduced initial capital costs.

5. The DuPont transport bed technology could be the most cost-effective option for maleic anhydride production in the 1990s, operating at lower conversion rates per pass with superior selectivity compared to traditional fixed or fluid bed systems, and featuring an attrition-resistant design.

6. All industrial catalysts for maleic anhydride production from butane are based on vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) systems.

7. The synthesis of vanadium phosphorus oxides was comprehensively reviewed by Huddett, and earlier data on these catalysts were explored by Varma and Saraf.

8. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is marked by easy formation and interconversion of various crystalline vanadium(IV) and vanadium(V) phases.

9. The ideal catalyst performance correlates with those containing 4-9 vanadium(V) ions per vanadium(IV) ion.

10. In the n-butane oxidation process, the rate-limiting step is the activation of n-butane.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 这种在工业上极为重要的化学物质，主要用于不饱和聚酯树脂、农业化学品、食品添加剂、润滑油添加剂和制药等领域的需求，在未来五年预计会增长，部分原因在于这种高度功能化的分子有了新的用途。

2. 目前，生产马来酸酐的主要原料包括苯、异丁烷和丁烯等。

3. 从异丁烷生产马来酸酐的效率较低，原因是转化率较高时选择性降低，且采用的进料浓度（低于2摩尔%）是为了避免工艺流体的可燃性。

4. 最近开发的基于液床的异丁烷系统提供了优势，如更高的异丁烷浓度（可达4%），从而降低了初始资本成本。

5. 预计在1990年代，杜邦运输床技术可能是生产马来酸酐最具经济效益的途径。该过程以较低的每次通过转化率运行，具有高于传统固定或液床系统所见的更高选择性，并使用了一种独特的抗磨损系统。

6. 所有用于从异丁烷生产马来酸酐的工业催化剂都基于范德华磷氧化物（PVO）系统。

7. 范德华磷氧化物的合成被Huddett进行了全面的回顾，而Varma和Saraf对这些催化剂的早期数据进行了探索。

8. 范德华磷氧化物系统以其容易形成和范德华(V(IV))和范德华(V(V))相之间轻松转换的特性而著称。

9. 催化剂的最佳性能与每范德华(IV)离子含有的4-9个范德华(V(V))离子相关。

10. 在异丁烷氧化过程中，决定性的步骤是异丁烷的活化。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>

