element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 7/Issue 1Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
REVIEWDecember 9, 2016
Intermetallic Compounds: Promising Inorganic Materials for Well-Structured and Electronically Modified Reaction Environments for Efficient Catalysis
Shinya Furukawa*†Takayuki Komatsu*
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
An overview of the catalytic properties of intermetallic compounds has been made to provide a comprehensive understanding regarding (1) what intermetallic catalysts can do, (2) their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and (3) their advantages over other inorganic materials. A number of chemical transformations using intermetallic catalysts have been surveyed and classified into three major divisions—hydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming and various subsections. The fundamental roles of intermetallic phases obtained from this survey were categorized into four types of effects: (a) electronic, (b) geometric, (c) steric, and (d) ordering effects. The unprecedented steric effects governed by the specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds highlight the unique capabilities of intermetallic materials. On the basis of this overview, we have concluded that intermetallic compounds have the following advantages for fine catalyst design: (i) control of the electronic structure, (ii) a specific and ordered atomic-level structure, and (iii) homogeneity of geometric and electronic structures. Thus, intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials capable of creating a well-designed reaction environment and suitable for developing efficient catalytic systems.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2016 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Catalysts
Intermetallics
Metals
Palladium
Platinum
Keywords
what are keywords
Intermetallic Compound
Catalyst Material
Catalyst Design
Geometric Effect
Electronic Effect
1 Introduction
Catalytic conversion by metallic materials is a key methodology used for various chemical transformations in industrial chemistry, organic synthesis, gas purification, and energy conversion. To improve the performance of metallic catalysts, secondary metallic elements have been frequently added to catalysts as modifiers. The development of such bimetallic catalytic materials remains an intriguing research area in catalytic chemistry. (1-3) In bimetallic systems, two types of metals are present in various states, such as alloys, (4, 5) core–shell structures, (6, 7) and metal–oxide composites. (6, 7) Alloys are classified into two categories depending on their structure: solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds. (8) The former, typically substitutional solid-solution alloys, consist of metals of similar atomic size and electronic character with a crystal structure identical to that of the parent metal with random atomic arrangements (Figure 1a). If the atoms of one element is sufficiently small to fit within the lattice void of the counterpart element, interstitial solid-solution alloys can be formed (Figure 1b). The latter involves the opposite situation to Figure 1a, where the component metals have significantly different characters and comprise distinct crystal structures with highly ordered atomic arrangements (Figure 1c). (8) In general, the similarity of two metals can be roughly estimated by their relative positions in the periodic table. As is well-known, solid-solution alloys have been extensively tested as catalyst materials for a long time. (9-13) In contrast, intermetallic compounds have been investigated for their applications to bulk materials with unique physical properties such as superconductivity, (14, 15) shape-memory effects, (16) and hydrogen storage capability. (17, 18) However, until recently, they have rarely been studied for use in catalytic reactions, leaving a so-called “blue ocean” area for developments in the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts. This situation is clearly represented in Figure 2, which shows the annual increase in the number of publications on alloys and intermetallic catalysts. Note that the actual numbers of the corresponding studies may be much longer than those shown in Figure 2, which only roughly reflects the trend in research. The upward trend for alloy catalysts follows that for metallic catalysts, although the total number is not as high. This upward trend is particularly prominent after 2000, making the chemistry of bimetallic catalysis as a “hot topic”. In contrast, the number of literature works on intermetallic catalysts is much smaller than that of alloy or metal catalysts. However, the recent increase in publications suggests that this field has also received growing attention. Moreover, the insights obtained from these studies suggest that the potential of intermetallic compounds for catalyst materials is high compared to conventional inorganic catalyst materials. To facilitate development and work toward establishing the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts in the near future, it is necessary to produce and share a comprehensive understanding about (1) what intermetallic catalysts can do, (2) their fundamental roles in enhanced catalysis, and (3) their advantages over other inorganic materials. To this day, a few reviews of intermetallic compounds focused on a specific topic (metal–support interaction) (19) and reactions (acetylene semihydrogenation (20, 21) and methanol steam reforming) (21, 22) have been reported. We have also published a minireview summarizing our recent studies on intermetallic catalysts. (23) However, no cyclopedic literature covering a broad range of catalytic chemistry of intermetallic compounds has been reported.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Structure of bimetallic alloys: (a) substitutional and (b) interstitial solid-solution alloys and (c) intermetallic compound. The word “alloying” suggests the formation of alloy phase (a, b, or c) or simply, the mixing of two metal elements in an atomic level.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Annual increases in the number of literature works in which titles include “catalyst” and “metallic”, “alloy”, or “intermetallic”, as determined by Web of Science searches.
With this context as our motivation, we summarize the current status of intermetallic compounds to provide an overview of their role as catalyst materials in this review. In section 2, we describe the typical methodologies for preparation of intermetallic compound catalysts and outline several points where care should be taken in their preparation. In section 3, we classify a number of catalytic systems that use intermetallic compounds as effective catalysts with respect to the type of reaction and clarify what intermetallic compounds can do. In section 4, the fundamental aspects of intermetallic or alloy phases that govern catalysis are categorized into several parts, including electronic and geometric effects. Other observed features that are unique to intermetallic phases are also introduced. On the basis of the nature of these features, we demonstrate the advantages of intermetallic compounds in catalyst design. Finally, in section 5, we discuss future perspectives on this research field and describe several challenges to be overcome.
For better categorizing in this review, we describe bimetallic combinations in order of the catalytically active metal (M) first and the counterpart metal (N) second. Specific intermetallic and solid-solution alloy phases are designated as MmNn and MxN(1–x) (where m, n are integer numbers and x is a decimal number), respectively. When we do not indicate a specific intermetallic or alloy phase, the bimetallic designation combined with a dash (M–N) is used. This designation indicates a composite of various phases, a generic term for a bimetallic system, and/or a simple mixture of two metals. Note that some descriptions in this manuscript differ from the original ones in the literature.
2 Catalyst Preparation
In general, an intermetallic catalyst should contain a catalytically active element, such as one of the late transition metals (Au, Pt, Pd, Ni, Rh, Co, Ru, and Fe). Therefore, the counterpart metal should be an early transition metal or a typical metallic element, which is well-separated from the active metals in the periodic table (Figure 3). The combination of a later transition metal and a typical metal or a half metal (Al, Si, Zn, Ga, Ge, In, Sn, Sb, Te, Tl, Pb, or Bi) is commonly employed, whereas combinations containing an early transition metal (Sc, Ti, V, Y, Zr, Nb, La, Hf, or Ta) have been less frequently reported. For the former combinations, most intermetallic compounds can be easily prepared as highly dispersed nanoparticles on a certain catalyst support using conventional impregnation methods with hydrogen reduction. (23) A stoichiometric supply and homogeneous dispersion of the two metal precursors are important in order to obtain a high phase-purity of the desired intermetallic phase. Ideally, the intermetallic catalyst should be single-phase so that the catalytic performance of the phase in question can be well understood. To avoid inhomogeneous distribution of metal precursors during drying, it is preferable to use the least amount of solvent possible, as is typically employed for pore-filling impregnation. The two metal precursors are loaded on the catalyst support simultaneously or successively (Figure 4). For the former fashion, which is called coimpregnation (Figure 4a), the precursors simultaneously undergo the gas-phase reduction procedure typically at high temperatures. However, in most cases, the reduction of two metal precursors does not occur simultaneously because of the significant deviation in their reduction potentials. (24) The reduction of noble metal precursor occurs (typically below 200 °C) before the furnace temperature is elevated sufficiently to reduce the base metal precursor. This trend can be observed clearly in the temperature programed reduction (TPR) profiles of some intermetallic catalysts. (25) For the successive impregnation fashion (Figure 4b), the second metal precursor is loaded on the prereduced monometallic catalyst. The reduction of the second metal occurs at the surface or neighboring sites of the parent active metal nanoparticles by surface or spillover hydrogen, followed by diffusing into the bulk to form the intermetallic phase. The size of the resulting intermetallic nanoparticles depends roughly on that of the parent metal. Therefore, this procedure is suitable for the preparation of size-controlled intermetallic nanoparticles. Instead of the supported monometallic particles, Raney-type porous bulk metals can also be used as the parent materials for the successive impregnation procedure. (26)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Active and second metal components of catalytically active intermetallic compounds represented in the periodic table. Shaded parts indicate elements that are rarely used.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic illustration of various preparation method of intermetallic compounds. (a) Co-impregnation, (b) successive impregnation, (c) chemical vapor deposition, (d) hydride reduction, (e) polyol processsis, and (f) metallurgical alloying.
Appropriate choice of the catalyst support is also a significant factor to prepare a supported intermetallic compound with high phase purity. Catalyst supports that tend to strongly capture the metals or metal precursors, such as γ-Al2O3, are less suitable for synthesizing single-phase intermetallic nanoparticles because they often result in less-homogeneous dispersions of the metal precursors and/or low surface mobility of the metals during the alloying process. (24) Using an inert support such as SiO2 or carbon is suitable not only for obtaining high phase-purity but also for clarifying the role of the intermetallic phase in enhanced catalysis due to the absence of contributions from the support itself. Of course, the use of other supports such as TiO2 or MgO is also valid when one expects concerted catalysis involving both the metallic phase and the support. (27, 28) Al2O3-supported intermetallic compounds can successfully be prepared by liquid-phase reduction (Figure 4d) using borohydride as a strong reducing agent. (24) It has been suggested that rapid coreduction of the two metal cations is effective for synthesizing an intermetallic phase on Al2O3. (24) Liquid-phase reduction can also be applied for the colloidal synthesis of intermetallic nanoparticles without any catalyst support. (29) Some capping agents are used to avoid aggregation. As a reducing agent, NaBH4, (30) LiBH4, (24, 27) LiBHEt3, (31-33) or sodium naphthalenide (34) has often been used.
As well as the aforementioned methods, chemical vapor deposition (CVD, Figure 4c) (35-39) and polyol process (Figure 4e) have also been employed for the preparation of intermetallic nanoparticles. For the CVD method, the second metal precursor is fed as a vapor directly to the surface of the parent metal particles, followed by reductive deposition and alloying. (35) At an appropriate temperature, the reductive deposition occurs preferentially on the active metal surface but not on the inert support, allowing selective deposition. The precursors having sufficiently high vapor pressures, such as silane (39) and tetraalkyl compounds of group 14 elements, (38) are typically employed for CVD. Note that because the loading amount depends strongly on the temperature and time of the CVD procedure, it is necessary to find an appropriate condition to control exactly the loading amount of the second metal. (35) This method often enables high phase purities and minimal aggregation or sintering of the parent metal particles under an appropriate condition. Polyol process is a unique and useful method for synthesizing intermetallic nanoparticles by successive alloying of the parent metal particles in liquid phase. Multivalent alcohols such as ethylene glycol, propanediol, and glycerol (so-called polyols) act as a (a) high-boiling solvent (bp 200–350 °C), (b) capping agent, and (c) reductant (hydrogen donor). (40) Both colloidal and supported nanoparticles can be used as the parent materials (Figure 4e). This method enables high phase-purity of the resulting intermetallic nanoparticles, where the size, shape, and dispersity of the parent particles are retained. Schaak et al. reported that a variety of intermetallic nanopartilces were prepared successfully using this method: for example, Au–Cu, (41) Pt–M (M = Sn, Sb, Fe, Bi, Pb, Cu), (42, 43) and M′–Sn (M′ = Fe, Ni, Co, Pd). (42)
For bimetallic combinations containing early transition metals, the preparation of supported intermetallic compounds is a challenging task. This is because the precursors of these metals are difficult to reduce to the metallic states by a typical hydrogen reduction treatment at high temperatures (400–800 °C) due to the very low reduction potentials (typically < −1.5 V vs normal hydrogen electrode (NHE)). (44), For example, a reduction temperature of 900 or 1000 °C with flowing hydrogen is required to convert Pt–Ti4+ or Pt–Nb5+ composite to Pt3Ti (45) or Pt3Nb (46) phase, respectively. A strong reducing agent such as LiHBEt3 (33, 47) or sodium napthalenide (34) in the liquid phase (Figure 4d) was reported to be effective for preparing intermetallic Pt3M (M = Ti, Zr, and Nb). Metal precursors with highly negative reduction potentials such as Sc3+ or lanthanide cations (typically < −2.0 V vs NHE) (44) are almost impossible to be reduced using chemical agents. Intermetallic compounds containing such metals can be prepared as bulk materials by conventional metallurgical alloying (Figure 4f). However, considering the very low reduction potentials of these metals, the resulting intermetallic phase is likely to be highly sensitive to air and moisture. For instance, the surface of Pd-based intermetallic compounds containing Ti or Nb undergoes oxidative decomposition into monometallic Pd and the oxide phases of the counterpart metal even in purified Ar atmosphere containing only a trace amount of O2 (<1 ppb). (48) Therefore, the intrinsic catalytic properties of intermetallic compound surfaces containing highly oxidizable metals is difficult to evaluate under typical reaction conditions and should be measured under very strict conditions such as an ultrahigh vacuum condition. In the following section, we show some examples of intermetallic catalysts containing early transition metals. In these cases, one should consider the possibility that the intermetallic phase acts as the precursor of the true active phase.
3 Survey of Intermetallic Catalysts
In this section, a number of chemical transformations are first classified into three major divisions, namely, hydrogenation/dehydrogenation, oxidation, and steam reforming. The individual reactions are the focus of different subsections. Here, reports dealing with bimetallic catalysts that do not give sufficient phase characterization are not covered, except for important examples, so that the contribution of the specific phase is clarified. Solid-solution alloy catalysts that are particularly important or relevant to the focused reaction were also included.
3.1 Hydrogenation/Dehydrogenation
Intermetallic compounds typically comprise base metal elements, which are sensitive to air, and therefore are suitable for chemical reactions performed under an inert or reductive atmosphere rather than an oxidative atmosphere. Hydrogenation of multiple bonds such as C═C, C≡C, C═O, and N═O or dehydrogenation of saturated hydrocarbons and alcoholic moieties is one of the most widely studied reaction categories that involve intermetallic compounds. In this section, several hydrogen-mediated reactions are categorized into five subsections, including (1) chemoselective hydrogenation, (2) alkene hydrogenation and isomerization, (3) alkane dehydrogenation, (4) alcohol-based N-alkylation of amines, and (5) hydrogenation of carbon oxides.
3.1.1 Chemoselective Hydrogenation
Hydrogenation of organic molecules having two reducible functional groups can yield several different products because hydrogenation may occur at any functional groups. If one aims to exclusively obtain a certain hydrogenated product, the targeted functional group should be selectively hydrogenated with the other functional group remaining. Occasionally, however, the other functional group may be kinetically and thermodynamically more easily hydrogenated than the target functional group. In such a case, a drastic modification of the catalytic property is required in order to suppress the undesired hydrogenation of the other group.
3.1.1.1 α,β-Unsaturated Aldehyde to Allylic Alcohol
Allylic alcohols such as crotyl alcohol, prenol, geraniol, cinnamyl alcohol, and furfuryl alcohol are valuable intermediates for the production of perfumes, flavoring, pharmaceuticals, and resins. (49-51) These alcohols can be produced by preferred hydrogenation of the C═O group of the corresponding α,β-unsaturated aldehyde (i.e., crotonaldehyde, prenal, citral, cinnamaldehyde, and furfral, respectively). Selective catalytic hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes to allylic alcohols is a key step in the industrial production of fine chemicals and is one of the most widely studied chemoselective hydrogenations in fundamental research on catalysis. (48) Conventional monometallic catalysts such as Pt (52) Ni, (39) or Ru (53, 54) typically catalyze undesired hydrogenation of the C═C bond to form a saturated aldehyde or alcohol.
In this research field, Sn-modified bimetallic systems represented by Pt–Sn have been reported to be effective (typically 70–90% selectivities for allylic alcohols) since the 1980s. (55-57) At the early stage (prior to 2000), however, most studies proposed that cationic Sn species adjacent to Pt sites act as anchoring sites of the C═O moiety for selective hydrogenation and made little mention of the involvement of alloy or intermetallic species. (55-58) The adsorption properties of Pt–Sn alloys (including surface alloys and bulk intermetallic Pt3Sn) have been extensively studied by a combination of density functional theory (DFT) calculations and surface science techniques such as high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS), low-energy electron diffraction (LEED), and temperature programed desorption (TPD) in the 2000s. (59-62) These studies revealed that alloying of Pt with Sn significantly weakened the adsorption of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes in side-on conformations, resulting in C═C hydrogenation, whereas it enhanced that in top coordination on Sn sites, enabling C═O hydrogenation. Very recently, Hou et al. reported the catalytic properties of a supported Pt3Sn intermetallic phase. (63) They prepared Pt3Sn intermetallic nanoparticles on SnO2 islands dispersed on reduced graphene oxide (rGO). This catalyst exhibits good to excellent (75–98%) yields for 12 different unsaturated alcohols, including crotyl, cinnamyl, and furfuryl alcohols under relatively mild conditions (2 MPa H2, 70 °C, Scheme 1). (63)
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Selective Hydrogenation of Various Unsaturated Aldehydes over Pt3Sn/SnO2/rGO
Ni-based intermetallic catalysts such as Ni3Sn2/TiO2 (64) and NiIn/MgO (65) were also reported to be effective for chemoselective hydrogenation of various unsaturated aldehydes. These catalysts show good catalytic performances comparable to that of Pt3Sn/SnO2/rGO, although more severe reaction conditions are required (3 MPa H2, 110–140 °C). This might be due to the intrinsic hydrogenation ability of Pt, which is superior to that of Ni. X-ray adsorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis and DFT calculations for the NiIn system revealed that charge transfer from In to Ni occurs upon alloying, which produces electron-rich Ni and electron-deficient In sites. (65) The authors propose that such polarized sites prefer C═O adsorption rather than C═C adsorption, allowing preferential hydrogenation of the C═O moiety. They also point out that isolation of Ni atoms by In (the so-called ensemble effect) decreases C═C adsorption. Intermetallic compounds with different Ni/In ratio (Ni2In, Ni3In, NiIn, and Ni2In3) were also tested in this system. As the Ni/In ratio decreased, the selectivity for C═O hydrogenation increased, whereas the catalytic activity decreased. This trend is consistent with the rationale they proposed. These interpretations are essentially similar to those found for the aforementioned Pt–Sn system.
Other than Sn or In-containing intermetallic compounds, RuTi/SiO2 (37) and unsupported PtZn (66) were also tested for crotonaldehyde hydrogenation, in which the selectivity to crotyl alcohol was ca. 40%. Interestingly, cofeeding ppm levels of bromoethane for the PtZn system significantly increases crotyl alcohol selectivity up to 88%. This enhancement is rationalized by preferential adsorption of the C═O moiety on positively charged Zn species that are formed in these conditions. (62) Ternary intermetallic compounds such as Co6Ge6Mg and Ni4Sn2Ca were tested for hydrogenation of citral. Co6Ge6Mg showed a higher ratio of saturated alcohol (S:(geraniol + nerol)/(citronellal + citronellol) = 4.6) than Ru–Sn/SiO2 catalyst (S = 4.1). (67) Similar results were observed between Ni4Sn2Ca (S = 1.2) or Ni4Sn2(Ca0.5Sr0.5) (S = 1.5) and Ni3Sn (S = 1.1). (68) The polar properties of these ternary materials are suggested for the origin of chemoselectivity.
Thus, in general, the intermetallic catalysts effective for selective hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehyde typically possess second metal sites that preferentially adsorb and activate carbonyl moieties.
3.1.1.2 Nitroarene to Aminoarene
Functionalized anilines are important intermediate chemicals for dyes, polymers, pharmaceuticals, and herbicides. (69) These molecules are synthesized by hydrogenation of the corresponding nitroarenes. Selective catalytic hydrogenation of nitroarenes to aminoarenes using gaseous hydrogen and a reusable heterogeneous catalyst is a highly atom-efficient and environmentally friendly process. The number of literatures using heterogeneous catalysts has been increasing in this decade, (70-81) indicating this field as a hot topic among researchers in heterogeneous catalysis. Functional groups substituted for aromatic rings are typically alkenyl, carbonyl, cyano, and halo groups. Among these, protecting alkenyl groups during nitro-hydrogenation (for example, nitrostyrene to aminostyrene) is the most challenging, because alkenyl groups are much more easily hydrogenated than other functional groups when a transition-metal catalyst and gaseous hydrogen are used. (82) Recently developed heterogeneous catalysts such as those based on Au (73, 83) and Ag (75, 76) typically need high H2 pressures (>0.6 MPa) and high reaction temperatures (>110 °C) to work well. In contrast, Rh-based intermetallic compounds such as RhIn/SiO2 (81) and Rh0.75Ni0.25 nanoparticles capped by octadecylamine (84) were reported to be active in very mild conditions. RhIn/SiO2 acts as a highly active and selective catalyst for hydrogenation of various nitroarenes including nitrostyrene under 1 atm H2 at 75 and 25 °C. As shown in Scheme 2 (left part), a variety of nitro arenes with vinyl, cyano, styryl, acetoxy, acetyl, formyl, chloro, bromo, and iodo groups were converted into the corresponding aminoarenes with high yields. (81) Note that monometallic Rh/SiO2 preferentially catalyzes undesired C═C hydrogenation and gave a negligible amount of the desired aminoarene. Chemoselective conversion can be achieved using a specific surface structure of RhIn, which is explained in detail in section 4.3. Although Rh0.75Ni0.25 displays similar catalytic performance for various functionalized nitroarenes, no substrate containing an alkenyl group was tested (Scheme 2, right part). For the Rh–Ni system, alloys with Ni contents higher than 0.33 show low selectivities (<62%). A similar result was also reported in the literature for RhIn/SiO2. In addition, several Pt-based catalysts that operate under relatively mild conditions have also been developed in recent years. (78, 83, 85) Many researchers consider isolation of Pt to be promising for selective nitro-hydrogenation. (78, 85) Indeed, to develop isolated Pt environments, some strategies such as single-atom dispersion (78) and ligand capping (85) have been adopted and demonstrated to be suitable. On the other hand, electronically modified Pt has been used for selective hydrogenation by intermetallic catalysts. Iihama et al. reported that PtZn/SiO2 catalyzed selective hydrogenation of various halonitrobenzenes to haloanilines (C6H4XNO2; X = Cl, Br, and I, including all regio isomers) under 1 atm H2 at 40 °C. (86) They proposed that electron-enrichment of Pt by Zn not only suppresses C–X scission but also enhances nitro-hydrogenation.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Hydrogenation of Various Nitroarenes to Aminoarenes Using RhIn/SiO2 and Rh0.75Ni0.25 Catalysts
Although the use of gaseous hydrogen is highly atom-efficient and suitable for industrial applications, using other hydrogen sources such as methanol may be more convenient for laboratory-scale organic synthesis. Transition-metal-catalyzed hydrogenation using organic hydrogen donors is termed catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH). (87, 88) Although this type of reaction was initially studied decades ago, there are few literature reports focused on intermetallic materials as catalysts. Pd13Pb9/SiO2 and RhPb2/SiO2 are efficient catalysts for CTH of nitrostyrene to aminostyrene using methanol as a hydrogen source and solvent. (79) In particular, RhPb2/SiO2 can hydrogenate nitrostyrene and its derivatives (in total, 6 substrates) to the corresponding amino compounds under 1 atm Ar at 70 °C in 1 or 1.5 h. (79)
3.1.1.3 Alkyne to Alkene
Semihydrogenation of alkyne to alkene is also one of the most widely studied reaction categories in the area of fundamental and applied chemistry. Acetylene semihydrogenation is an important industrial process used to purify crude ethylene containing a small amount of acetylene, which terminally deactivates ethylene polymerization catalysts. (89) Conversion of aliphatic and functionalized alkynes to the corresponding alkenes is also frequently employed in organic syntheses. (90) Protecting the produced C═C bond, which is easily hydrogenated to a saturated C–C bond in hydrogenation conditions, is the key concern for this reaction. In general, conversion of alkyne proceeds successively to alkene and alkane. However, direct conversion to ethane via surface ethylidene species has also been proposed for acetylene hydrogenation. (91) Pd- and Ni-based catalysts are known to be effective for selective alkyne semihydrogenation. For example, a Pd–Ag alloy has been utilized as an acetylene semihydrogenation catalyst for ethylene purification in industrial process. (92, 93) A number of intermetallic compounds have also been reported to be effective catalysts: e.g., AuPd/TiO2, (94) PdmGa (bulk and Al2O3- or C-supported, m = 1 or 2), (31, 32, 95-97) PdZn/ZnO, (98) Ni3Sn, (99) Ni3Ge/MCM-41, (100) Ni–Zn/MgAl2O4, (101) and Ni3Ga/MgAl2O4. (102) In addition, other 3d transition-metal-based intermetallic compounds such as CoM (M = Al, Co, and Ge) (103) and Fe4Al13 (104) catalyze acetylene hydrogenation and display high selectivity to ethylene. The enhanced selectivity to ethylene has often been explained by the weakened adsorption of ethylene. (105, 106) The adsorption energy of alkene on Pd typically becomes less negative in the presence of the second metal atoms adjacent to Pd atoms, which accelerates alkene desorption, thereby inhibiting overhydrogenation. (106) However, alkyne adsorption is also weakened, which lowers the hydrogenation rate of alkyne. Therefore, alkene yields generally exhibit a volcano-type relationship to the adsorption properties of the surface.
Table 1 summarizes the catalytic performance of reported intermetallic and alloy catalysts for acetylene semihydrogenation. Detailed information such as the list of feed gas space velocities can be found in the literature. In most cases, small amounts of C4 byproducts such as butenes are yielded by dimerization of C2 molecules. Note that ethylene selectivity is sometimes reported as the percentage of ethylene in C2 molecules (not including C4 molecules), which is shown in parentheses in Table 1. In general, Ni-based catalysts require higher reaction temperatures than Pd-based catalysts to obtain high conversion rates. Among these catalysts, PdZn/ZnO exhibits a remarkably high catalytic activity and selectivity even at a reaction temperature of 80 °C (Table 1, entry 8), which is much lower than that for other Pd-based catalysts, typically 200 °C. The outstanding high catalytic activity is explained by a high H2 dissociation ability and the capacity for moderate di-σ coordination of acetylene to Pd, unlike in the case of other Pd-based intermetallic compounds such as PdGa (107) or PdAl. (108) The barrier for H2 dissociation on PdZn(100) of 39 kJ mol–1 is lower than that on PdGa(210) (49 kJ mol–1 at minimum) (109) and close to that on Pd(111) (20 kJ mol–1). (110) Armbrüster and the corroborators reported that PdGa and Pd2Ga could be prepared as supported or unsupported nanoparticles that display good ethylene selectivities (58–82%) at sufficiently high acetylene conversions (66–95%) (Table 1, entries 3–7). It is worth mentioning that a Ni0.25Zn0.75 catalyst (Table 1, entry 11) was discovered through theoretical predictions by Nørskov et al. They employed the heat of adsorption of methyl as a single descriptor representing catalytic activity and selectivity and surveyed the heat of adsorption for a number of bimetallic combinations. They discovered that intermetallic NiZn displayed a similar heat of adsorption of methyl to that of PdAg and demonstrated that high selectivity was indeed obtained when supported Ni–Zn catalysts were used. It should also be noted that Fe4Al13 shows a very high catalytic activity that is comparable to Pd-based catalysts despite its low specific surface area (∼20 m2g–1), and it has sufficient selectivity (Table 1, entry 13) compared to that of an industrial benchmark. The use of ubiquitous metal elements and their good catalytic performances makes them a fascinating alternative to noble metal catalysts.
Table 1. Catalytic Performances of the Reported Intermetallic and Alloy Catalysts for Acetylene Semihydrogenation
entry catalyst phase/support temp (°C) feeding ratio (C2H2:H2:C2H4) GHSV (mL gcat–1 h–1) conv (%) sel. (%)a ref
1 Pd0.2Ag0.8 200 1:10:100 9000 85 49 32
2 PdAu/TiO2 200 1:3:96 63 000 60 (88) 94
3 PdGa 200 1:10:100 4500 66 77 32
4 PdGa/Al2O3 200 1:10:100 24 000 84 82 32
5 Pd2Ga 200 1:10:100 180 000 95 75 32
6 Pd2Ga/Al2O3 200 1:10:100 18 000 88 66 32
7 Pd2Ga/C 200 1:10:100 7 500 000 90 58 97
8 PdZn/ZnO 80 1:10:20 180 000 100 (96) 98
9 Ni3Sn 250 1:5:0 closed 100 68(>99) 99
10 Ni3Ge/MCM-41 250 1:2:0   94 89(98) 100
11 Ni0.25Zn0.75/MgAl2O4   1:10:20   97 (98) 101
12 Ni3Ga/MgAl2O4 200 1:20:100 40 000 90 80 102
13 Fe4Al13 200 1:10:100 90 000 81 84(90) 104
aEthylene selectivity in all products. Values in parentheses indicate ethylene selectivity in C2 molecules.
Liquid-phase hydrogenation of aliphatic alkynes was studied using Pd2Ga, (111) and PdZn/ZnO, (112) which showed high alkene selectivities. For functionalized alkynes, selective hydrogenation to the corresponding alkenes was achieved using Pd3Pb/SiO2 and Pd3Bi/SiO2. (106) Intermetallic Pd3Pb shows higher alkene selectivity than other Pd-based bimetallic catalysts such as Pd0.5Ag0.5, Pd2Ga, PdZn, and the commercial Lindlar catalyst (Pd–Pb/CaCO3). Note that the states of Pb atoms in intermetallic Pd3Pb and Pd–Pb/CaCO3 differ significantly: Pb atoms comprise the lattice of Pd3Pb but are deposited as oxides on the surface of monometallic Pd, respectively. (113) A DFT study on these Pb-containing materials suggested that the Pd3Pb(111) surface had much lower heat of adsorption of alkyne and alkene than the Pb-deposited Pd(111) surface. (106)
3.1.1.4 Diene to Monoene
Selective hydrogenation of diene to monoene requires inhibition of overhydrogenation of the product alkene to alkane. Similarly for alkyne semihydrogenation, diminishing the alkene adsorption by alloying has been often employed. Liquid-phase hydrogenation of 1,5-hexadiene was performed using a Pd–Ag alloy supported on alumina. (114, 115) Alkene selectivity was significantly improved by alloying with a small amount of Ag (Pd0.8Ag0.2), resulting in a 77% yield of hexenes at 100% conversion. However, inner alkenes such as 2-hexenes were also formed by 1-hexene isomerization. Gas-phase hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene was studied using PtxGe/SiO2 (x = 1, 2, and 3). (116) Pt3Ge exhibited excellent selectivity (95%) to butenes at 100% conversion. Although Pt2Ge and PtGe showed good selectivities, the reaction rate significantly decreased as the Ge content increased. In addition, some Pt-based alloys (Pt0.8M0.2, M = Ni, Co, or Fe) were tested for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation, and good selectivity was obtained (Pt0.8Fe0.2, 89% selectivity at 50% conversion). (117)
3.1.2 Alkene Hydrogenation and Isomerization
As mentioned in the two preceding sections, the alkene hydrogenation ability of a monometallic catalyst is significantly diminished by the formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase. However, an exceptional case of hydrogenation activity enhanced by the formation of an intermetallic phase has also been reported. Intermetallic Pt3Ti was reported to give a much higher reaction rate for hydrogenation of ethylene to ethane. (118) Therefore, it may be generally concluded that hydrogenation ability is often decreased when the counterpart metal is a late transition or a typical metal. The unexpected enhancement in hydrogenation ability observed for Pt3Ti cannot be explained in terms of adsorption energy because adsorptivity is also weakened on Pt3Ti. (119) Presumably, a specific electronic state or configuration of alkenes that is energetically favorable for hydrogen attack might be possible on Pt3Ti.
Unique hydrogenation abilities of intermetallic compounds capable of hydrogen storage have also been reported. Endo et al. reported that Ni2Ce adsorbs hydrogen within its bulk lattice to form an amorphous Ni2CeHx phase. (120) This amorphous intermetallic hydride almost completely catalyzes ethylene hydrogenation at low temperatures (conversion: >99%, above 40 °C), while the parent Ni2Ce was almost inactive (∼0% at 40 °C). The drastic enhancement in hydrogenation ability was explained by a direct involvement of the adsorbed hydrogen at the surface in ethylene hydrogenation.
During hydrogenation of inner alkenes, isomerization to another stereoisomer also proceeds as a side reaction. This reaction takes places by C–C rotation of the alkyl intermediate, followed by β-hydrogen elimination as a reverse reaction of the initial hydrogen addition to alkene. Scheme 3 outlines the hydrogenation and isomerization of alkene by hydrogen, which is known as the Horiuchi–Planyi mechanism. (121) The thermodynamically stable (E)-isomer is typically generated as an isomerization product. However, for monometallic and usual bimetallic catalysts, overhydrogenation to alkane inevitably occurs because hydrogen atoms can attack the alkenyl carbon from various directions. Therefore, it is difficult to selectively catalyze alkene isomerization in the presence of hydrogen. Recently, Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds belonging to the orthorhombic Pnma space group, such as RhSb, were reported to selectively catalyze (Z) to (E) isomerization of various inner alkenes. (122, 123) A unique surface stereochemistry governed by a specific bimetallic structure allows one-atom hydrogenation for isomerization and inhibits two-atom hydrogenation to alkane, which is explained in detail in section 4.3. Contrary to the commonly used alkene isomerization methodologies using acid or photoexcitation, the use of hydrogen is much more functional-group-tolerant. Therefore, an RhSb catalyst can be applied to conversion of functionalized alkenes and alkynes as described in the following paragraph.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Reaction Mechanism of Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization and Hydrogenation Known as Horiuchi–Polanyi Mechanism
Catalytic hydrogenation of inner alkynes generates (Z)-alkenes due to syn addition of hydrogen to the alkenyl moiety. Obtaining (E)-alkenes from alkyne generally requires Birch-type reduction, which is performed in liquid NH3. (124) However, this reaction is stoichiometric, and the reaction conditions seem to be poorly functional-group-tolerant. (125) Therefore, obtaining functionalized (E)-alkenes by catalytic hydrogenation of the corresponding alkynes is highly challenging. This can be accomplished by a combination of an alkyne semihydrogenation catalyst (Pd3Pb/SiO2) and the alkene isomerization catalyst (RhSb/SiO2). (106) Note that both catalysts work in the presence of gaseous hydrogen, enabling a one-pot procedure to be used for the (E)-alkene synthesis. Various functionalized inner alkynes containing carbonyl or hydroxyl moieties were converted stepwise into the corresponding (E)-alkenes with high yields using a 1:1 mixture of these catalysts under 1 atm H2 at room temperature (Scheme 4). (106)
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Hydrogenation of Various Functionalized Alkynes to the Corresponding (E)-Alkenes Using Pd3Pb/SiO2 and RhSb/SiO2 Catalystsa
Scheme aConversion of alkyne, selectivity for (E)- and (Z)-alkenes, and E:Z ratio are shown.
3.1.3 Alkane Dehydrogenation
Dehydrogenation of saturated hydrocarbons such as propane, ethane, and isobutene is one of the most important chemical processes for the production of light alkenes. Particularly, in these days, propane dehydrogenation to propylene is increasingly in demand due to an insufficient supply of propylene from steam crackers. (126) In this field, Pt–Sn bimetallic catalysts have been widely studied and used as industrial catalysts. (127-132) The addition of Sn to Pt often increases catalytic activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation toward hydrogenolysis or oligomerization. Moreover, this enhances coke resistance and catalyst stability. Recent experimental (133, 134) and theoretical (135, 136) studies revealed that the intermetallic Pt3Sn phase shows both high catalytic activity and selectivity among various Pt–Sn phases such as Pt–Sn alloys (Sn content <10%), Pt3Sn, PtSn, and PtSn2. As shown in Figure 5, the most stable (111) plane of the Pt3Sn phase exhibits an Sn arrangement with a (2 × 2) structure. The incorporated Sn atoms effectively dilute large Pt ensembles, which cause undesired side reactions such as hydrogenolysis, coke formation, and oligomerization. (135) However, 3-fold Pt sites remain on Pt3Sn(111) and act as the minimum active site for C–H activation, affording sufficient catalytic activity. In contrast, Sn-rich intermetallic phases such as PtSn, PtSn2, and PtSn4 are almost inactive for alkane dehydrogenation (127-129) probably because the surface Pt atoms are completely isolated by surrounding Sn atoms, resulting in disappearance of Pt–Pt sites.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Crystal structure of Pt3Sn with a single unit cell and (b) atomic arrangement of Pt3Sn(111) surface with a (2 × 2)-Sn structure.
Another explanation for the geometric role of Sn was also proposed. Olsbye et al. have suggested that low-coordination Pt sites, namely, corners or edges, are active for hydrogenolysis while Sn atoms preferentially block these Pt sites. (137) This explanation was supported theoretically by Yang et al. (138) They showed that stepped sites on Pt(211) surface prefers overdehydrogenation of propylene to its desorption, whereas on the flat (111) surface, desorption is much more favored to overdehydrogenation. They also pointed that (1) the stepped sites are very active and unselective, but undergo rapid deactivation due to the coke formation and that (2) reactions occur on the flat surface after reaching the steady state. (138)
As well as the geometric effects of Sn, the contribution of electronic effects has also been reported. An X-ray photoelectron spectrum (XPS) (134) and XAFS (134, 139) study showed that the electron density of Pt increases by alloying with Sn. Downward shift of the d band center was also reported for a series of Pt–Sn surfaces. (135) This modified electronic state changes the adsorption properties of Pt. Indeed, many experimental (127) and computational approaches (135, 136) have revealed that adding Sn to Pt reduces the heat of propylene adsorption, which promotes desorption of propylene and suppresses successive side reactions. Figure 6 shows the difference in energy barriers between propylene desorption and overdehydrogenation to propenyl species. (135) Pt(111) surface prefers overdehydrogenation, while this trend is inverted for Pt–Sn surfaces. Propylene desorption becomes much more favorable, as the Sn content at the surface and subsurface region increased. This energy difference in propylene desorption and overdehydrogenation to propenyl species has often been used as a descriptor of selectivity to propylene. Note that this electronic effect on the adsorption property is very similar to that observed in alkyne semihydrogenation. Thus, it is likely that selective alkane dehydrogenation relies on both the geometric and electronic effects generated by the addition of Sn.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Energy barrier difference (Ediff) between propylene dehydrogenation and propylene desorption over the Pt(111) and various Pt–Sn surfaces. Blue and red bars indicate pathways to 1- and 2-propenyls, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 135. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
3.1.4 Alcohol-Based N-Alkylation of Amines
N-Alkylation of amines with alcohol is an important chemical transformation for the synthesis of N-alkylamines, which are key building blocks that comprise a variety of functional organic molecules. (140) This reaction takes places by alcohol dehydrogenation, followed by reductive amination, as shown in Scheme 5a. Here, dehydrogenation of alcohol and hydrogenation of intermediate imine are catalyzed by transition-metal catalysts through a process known as a hydrogen-borrowing mechanism. (141) Here, alcohol acts as not only an alkylating agent but also a hydrogen source. At present, various heterogeneous catalysts containing transition metals such as Au, (142) Ag, (143) Cu, (144) Pt, (145) Pd, (146) Ni, (147) and Ru (148) have been reported to be effective for this reaction. These catalytic systems are highly atom-efficient, environmentally benign, and easy to handle under atmospheric pressure. However, in most cases, the scope of amine substrates is limited to less reactive amines such as aniline derivatives and aliphatic amines. This is because amines are essentially more reactive than alcohol, causing undesired side reactions such as amine dimerization (Scheme 5b) or C–N cleavage to occur that decrease the yield of N-alkylation products. N-alkylation of reactive amines such as benzylamine can be achieved using a PdZn/Al2O3 catalyst with high yields. (149) The formation of a PdZn intermetallic phase drastically changes the adsorption affinity of Pd for alcohol and amine. On monometallic Pd, the adsorption of amine and the subsequent β-hydrogen activation are kinetically and thermodynamically preferred over those of alcohols. Conversely, this trend is inverted on PdZn, allowing selective adsorption and activation of alcohols for N-alkylation. A DFT calculation for Pd(111) and PdZn(111) (described by a CuAu-type unit cell) surfaces revealed that the highly oxophilic character of Zn atoms in contrast to the azophilic character of Pd atoms contributed to the drastic change in adsorption affinity. (149) Various amines including aliphatic amines, benzylamine, and its derivatives can be alkylated with high yields in a few hours using a PdZn/Al2O3 catalyst (Scheme 6). This catalytic system is also suitable for heteroaromatic alcohols such as furfuryl alcohol and N-alkylation of secondary amines to tertiary amines. Note that one of the most challenging tasks, the combination of less reactive octylacohol and highly reactive benzylamine, was also tested, and produced N-octylbenzylamine with a moderate yield. Using an Al2O3 support is also important for this system because the acidity of Al2O3 can accelerate condensation of the aldehyde and the amine to form an intermediate imine, as is often suggested in relevant works. (141)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Reaction Pathways of (a) Alcohol-Based N-Alkylation and (b) Dimerization of Amine Mediated by Hydrogen-Borrowing Mechanism
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. N-Alkylation of Various Amines Using PdZn/Al2O3
High catalytic performance for N-alkylation has also been reported using a Pt-based bimetallic catalyst. Wei et al. reported that Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (Pt:Sn = 1:3) selectively catalyzed N-alkylation of various amines. (145) They also demonstrated a wide scope of substrates with 47 aniline derivatives, 3 aliphatic amines, and 5 benzylamine derivatives (typically 80–99% yields). Because this study includes no original characterization of the catalyst except for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations, it is unclear which intermetallic or alloy species contribute to the selective catalysis. However, preferential activation of alcohol over amines is certainly governed by this bimetallic catalyst.
In relation to N-alkylation of amine, amination of alcohol with ammonia (N-alkylation of ammonia) has also been studied, particularly by researchers in homogeneous catalysis. (150-152) However, very few heterogeneous catalysts are effective for alcohol amination. This reaction is much more challenging than N-alkylation of amine because the intermediate imine is a primary imine, which is very unstable and easily undergoes deaminative dimerization. (153) Therefore, the hydrogenation of methanimine to the primary amine product needs to be sufficiently promoted. Recently, Nakagawa et al. reported amination of 1,2-propanediol with aqueous ammonia using a Rh–In/C catalyst. (154, 155) The optimized catalyst (Rh:In = 1:1) showed a 28-fold higher turnover frequency (TOF) than Rh/C. The products were dominated by a 1:1 mixture of 1-amino-2propanol and 2-amino-1-propanol. Detailed characterization revealed that the tetragonal RhIn phase (distorted CsCl structure) was the main active species. This catalytic system operates under a high H2 pressure (5 MPa), probably to promote the hydrogenation of imine to amine.
3.1.5 Hydrogenation of Carbon Oxides
Hydrogenation of carbon oxides (CO or CO2) to methane, methanol, or oligomerized hydrocarbons is an important methodology used to synthesize fuels. Methanation of CO or CO2 was widely studied for use in natural gas production from coal or biomass. (156) These days, CO methanation is increasingly in focus as a choice for purification of crude hydrogen for polymer electrolyte fuel cell (PEFC), (157) in which CO terminally deactivates Pt electrodes. In the early stages, 3d late transition-metal-based intermetallic compounds (MxNy; M = Cu, (158, 159) Ni, (159-161) Co, (160, 161) or Fe; (162) N = Th, (158, 159) U, (159) Si, (160, 161) or Ti (162)), some of which are known as hydrogen storage materials, were utilized for CO methanation and related reactions. However, in these cases, the actual active phases were monometallic M dispersed on N oxides, which were formed by degradation of the parent intermetallic phases during the reaction or intentional oxidizing pretreatments. On the other hand, a recent study using silica-supported bimetallic Ni–Si catalysts by Liang et al. showed that catalysts containing intermetallic Ni–Si phases (Ni2Si, NiSi, or NiSi2) exhibited higher CO conversions, CH4 selectivity, and catalyst stability than Ni/SiO2. (163) As shown in Figure 7, the Si–Ni/SiO2-350 catalyst, which was prepared by direct silicification of Ni/SiO2 in a flow of 10% SiH4 in H2 at 350 °C (categorized into a CVD method), showed better catalytic performance than Ni/SiO2 in the entire temperature region tested (200–600 °C). They also suggested that strong interactions between Ni and Si prevented sintering of the nanoparticles and carbon deposition.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) CO conversion and (b) CH4 selectivity on Ni/SiO2 catalyst and different Si–Ni/SiO2-350 catalysts with GHSVs 48 000 mL h–1 g–1 at 1 atm. The short dash line represented thermodynamic equilibrium value. Reproduced with permission from ref 163. Copyright 2014 The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Improved catalytic activity of a Ni-based bimetallic catalyst was also reported by Christensen et al., where alloying with Fe resulted in a 5-fold improvement in CO conversion at 225 °C, with a yield for Ni–Fe/MgAl2O4 (Ni:Fe = 1:1) of 41% compared to that of Ni/MgAl2O4 of 8%. (164) Interestingly, this observation was partially motivated by an attempt to optimize the adsorption properties of Ni by alloying according to the volcano-relationship between the activity and dissociative CO adsorption energy. In this relationship, the reaction rate is limited by a high barrier for CO dissociation when CO adsorption is weak, whereas it is limited by the high binding energy of the adsorbed C and O species when CO adsorption is strong. Elemental Ni and Fe are located on the stronger and weaker adsorption sides of the volcano-curve, respectively. Such a concept can be expanded to produce more thorough catalyst designs and predictions. For example, Nørskov and co-workers recently reported the theoretical prediction and discovery of intermetallic Ni5Ga3 catalysts effective for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. (165) They built a theoretical volcano-plot for elemental Pd, Cu, Ni, Zn-doped Cu (uses as the model for the Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 industrial catalyst), and some Ni–Ga intermetallic compounds (Ni3Ga, Ni5Ga3, and NiGa). Using the adsorption energy of an O atom (ΔEO) as a single descriptor for solving a microkinetic model allows TOF to be represented as a single function of EO, showing a volcano-relationship in the form of a concave-down curve (Figure 8). Here, it is important that scaling relations exist between ΔEO and the adsorption energies and the transition-state energies of all the oxygen-bound surface intermediate species for the tested metal surfaces. The plot indicates that Ni5Ga3 and Zn-doped Cu are very close to the top of the curve. Indeed, the prepared Ni5Ga3/SiO2 catalyst showed comparable or higher catalytic activity and much lower byproduction of CO than the conventional Cu/ZnO/Al2O3. As well as Ni-based catalysts, the application of a Pd-based catalyst for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol was also reported. Ota et al. reported that high selectivities to methanol in hydrogenation of CO2 were obtained using nanoparticulate Pd2Ga and PdZn catalysts, which were prepared from hydrotalcite-like compounds including Pd–Zn–Al and Pd–Mg–Ga, respectively. (166)
Figure 8
Figure 8. Theoretical activity volcano for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. TOF is plotted as a function of ΔEO, relative to Cu(211). ΔEO for the stepped 211 surfaces of Cu, Ni, and Pd is depicted as open black circles, and Cu+Zn is depicted in orange. ΔEO for Ni–Ga intermetallic compounds is depicted in red. Closed circles indicate nickel-rich sites, open circles gallium-rich sites, and half-open circles mixed sites. Reaction conditions are 500 K, 1 bar, and a CO2:H2 ratio of 1:3. Reprinted with permission from ref 165. Copyright 2014 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.
Production of hydrocarbons by reductive oligomerization of CO, namely, Fischer–Tropsch (FT) synthesis, is also categorized in this section. Similarly for CO methanation, a number of Ni-, Co-, Fe-, and Ru-based catalysts have been reported to be active for this reaction. (167) Among them, Ru is known as the most active metal, which operates at the lowest temperatures (e.g., 150 °C). It was reported that a RuTi/SiO2 catalyst prepared by a CVD method with titanocene dichloride showed good catalytic performance with a much higher CO conversion (86%) and hydrocarbon selectivity (C3, 15 C-%; C4, 40C-%; C5+, 25 C-%) than that of Ru/SiO2 (C2+, <1 C-%) at 230 °C. (168) As a reaction related to COx reduction, they also tested the application of Ni- and Co-based intermetallic compounds to CO2 reforming of methane. Among the various unsupported intermetallic compounds, CoHf2 exhibited 8- and 2.5-fold higher CO2 conversions than monometallic Co and Ni, respectively at 750 °C. (169) CoHf2 also showed long-term stability of CO2 conversion over 100 h, whereas that of monometallic Ni declined to half over the same time. Endo et al. reported that the Ni2CeHx, mentioned in section 3.1.2 (ethylene hydrogenation), was also effective for FT synthesis. (170) Although the parent Ni2Ce material showed a CO conversion rate comparable to that of pure Ni, the amorphous intermetallic hydride exhibited a nearly 3-fold higher conversion rate at a reaction temperature of 260 °C. The product distributions of C1, C2, C3, and C4 were 49, 26, 20, and 5%, respectively.
3.2 Oxidation
As described in the last section, intermetallic compounds provide catalytic properties superior to those of monometallic catalysts under inert or reductive atmospheres. In contrast, for oxidation reactions, intermetallic compounds face oxidative decomposition that forms oxide phases from the base metals. However, several intermetallic compounds exhibit excellent catalytic performance under relatively mildly oxidative conditions. In this section, a series of oxygen-mediated reactions are categorized into four subsections as follows: (1) oxidative dehydrogenation, (2) oxidative esterification, (3) CO oxidation, and (4) electrooxidation.
3.2.1 Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Oxidative dehydrogenation of alcohols, (171) amines, (172) or hydrocarbons (173) to carbonyl, imine, or alkenyl compounds using molecular oxygen has been extensively studied in terms of fundamental and applied aspects. The reactions for alcohols and amines typically proceed under relatively mild conditions such as an atmospheric oxygen pressure at ca. 100 °C. Generally, for oxidative dehydrogenation over Pt-group metals, molecular oxygen is consumed to oxidize the hydrogen atoms eliminated from the substrate to form water. (171) Therefore, an appropriate supply of molecular oxygen does not oxidize the Pt-group metals to cationic states. Pt or Pd catalysts have been studied for alcohol oxidation decades and the addition of typical heavy elements such as Bi, Pb, or Te significantly improves their catalytic activities and/or selectivities. (171) Some researchers suggested that intermetallic phases such as PdBi, (174) Pd3Pb, (175) or Pd3Te (176) are involved in the enhanced catalysis. However, the role of the individual intermetallic phases has not been clarified. On the other hand, many researchers have advocated different rationales for the positive roles of the promoter metals themselves. For example, (1) supply of adsorption sites for oxygen, (177-179) (2) prevention of Pd corrosion, (174, 175) (3) synergetic effects by the noble and second metals, (180, 181, 182) (4) ensemble effects to inhibit side reactions yielding poisoning species (e.g., C–C cleavage), (183, 184) (5) complex formation between the second metal and the substrate, (185) and (6) suppression of hydrogen sorption. (186) Recently, Baiker et al. reported an in situ characterization of liquid-phase oxidation of alcohol over a Pd–Bi catalyst using XAFS and attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy techniques in an operando mode. (187) They revealed that Bi inhibited side reactions and supplied oxygen to the catalyst surface. A similar technique was also applied to a Pt–Bi system, suggesting that Bi protected Pt from oxidation and blocked adsorption sites for solvent–Pt interaction. (188) Thus, although useful insights have been provided by spectroscopic methods, the nature of this chemical system is still being debated and is an attractive field for further investigation.
Recently, Au-based bimetallic catalysts have become an appealing subject in alcohol oxidation chemistry. (189) In particular, Au–Pd alloys show remarkably high catalytic activities and superior selectivities compared with monometallic Pd and Au. (190, 191) For example, Prati et al. reported that Au0.8Pd0.2/C showed 70- and 510-fold higher TOF than Pd/C and Au/C, respectively, in oxidation of benzylalcohol in water at 60 °C under 1.5 atm O2. (190) Hutchings et al. also reported enhanced catalytic activity of Pd/C alloyed with Au in benzylalcohol oxidation without solvents at 120 °C under 10 atm O2. However, the enhancement in Pd/C was observed only for Pd-rich alloys (Pd content = 50–88%) but not for Au-rich alloys. (190) This discrepancy may be stem from the significant difference in reaction conditions. Other than Au–Pd alloys, Au–Cu and Au–Ag alloys were reported to be more active than monometallic Au in oxidation of benzylalcohol.
The oxidation of amines to imines is also an important chemical transformation because of the versatile applications of imines as intermediates in the synthesis of medicines or biologically active nitrogen-containing organic molecules. (172) Developing efficient heterogeneous catalytic systems for aerobic oxidation of amines is important in relation to organic synthesis and industrial applications. Although Ru catalysts, (192, 193) Au catalysts, (194-197) and semiconductor photocatalysts (198-202) have been reported to be effective for amine oxidation, no heterogeneous catalyst has been reported in the literature to provide high catalytic activity, high selectivity, and a wide scope of substrate. The difficulty centers on the limited scope of substrates for secondary amines. This is because the C–N bonds of secondary amines of which nitrogen is less sterically hindered are easily cleaved. (194) Therefore, oxidation of sterically hindered secondary amines, such as N-phenyl, N-isopropyl, or N-tert-butylbenzylamine, have typically been tested and reported. Very recently, Furukawa et al. reported that intermetallic Pd3Pb/Al2O3 acts as a highly efficient catalyst for oxidation of various amines. (27) As listed in Scheme 7a, primary, secondary, benzylic, and aliphatic amines could be selectively oxidized into the corresponding imines with high yields within a few hours. Note that the N-methyl and N-ethylbenzylamines and dibutylamines, which are less sterically hindered secondary amines, were successfully converted into the imines. Moreover, monometallic Pd showed a very low catalytic activity, indicating a remarkable promotion effect of Pb on the reaction rate. A mechanistic study based on FT–IR, TPD, and kinetic analysis revealed the reaction mechanism (Scheme 7b) and that large Pb atoms weaken the strong adsorption of the product imine to Pd sites, hence promoting imine desorption. (203) This promotion effect changes the rate-determining step from imine desorption to amine adsorption. It is interesting that this activity promotion effect differs from those proposed for alcohol oxidation over Pd-based bimetallic catalysts. On the other hand, the role of Pb in providing the enhanced selectivity (minimized C–N cleavage) might be due to an ensemble effect. For Pd3Pb on basic supports, amine adsorption is further accelerated by deprotonation (Scheme 7c), affording a remarkable enhancement in the catalytic activity. Note that this support effect does not appear for monometallic Pd catalysts because the reaction rate is limited by imine desorption. Thus, in this catalytic system, the concerted catalysis between the intermetallic phase and the support plays a key role on the improved catalytic performances.
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. (a) Aerobic Oxidation of Various Amines over Pd3Pb/Al2O3 Catalyst; Reaction Mechanism of Amine Oxidation over Pd3Pb Supported on (b) SiO2, (c) TiO2, Al2O3, and MgO
Next, we show an example of an intermetallic catalyst working under severely oxidative conditions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is typically performed at temperatures higher than 200 °C. Mixed metal oxides represented by bismuth molybdates are generally used as catalysts for this reaction, (204-207) whereas metallic catalysts such as Pt or Pd have rarely been used. This is due to the strong oxidation ability of zerovalent metals, which causes complete combustion to COx. In a related study, a series of Pd-based intermetallic compounds (PdmMn/SiO2: M = Bi, Fe, Ge, In, Sn, or Zn) were recently tested for oxidative dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3-butadiene at 400 °C. (25) Pd3Fe/SiO2 and PdIn/SiO2 showed the highest selectivity to 1,3-butadiene (ca. 40%), which was much higher than that of Pd/SiO2 (15%). In these oxidative conditions, the shell portions of the PdIn particles are decomposed into a composite of highly dispersed Pd clusters and In2O3 (Scheme 8a). On this composite, the C–H activation of 1-butene and consumption of the eliminated hydrogen to form water are mediated by Pd and lattice oxygen of In2O3, respectively (Scheme 8b). Molecular oxygen is preferentially used for restoring oxygen vacancies over direct combustion. In this system, the PdIn phase act as a precursor of the active phase and reaches a steady state between decomposition to the Pd–In2O3 composite and regeneration to PdIn during the reaction. A similar in situ structural change in the Pd–In2O3 composite was also reported from systems of steam reforming of methanol, as shown in Section 3.3.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. (a) Change in Catalyst Structure during the Reaction; (b) Proposed Reaction Mechanism of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to Butadiene over PdIn/SiO2: (1) Oxidative Decomposition of PdIn to Pd and In2O3, (2) Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to 1,3-Butadiene at the Interface, (3) Reoxidation of In by O2, (4) Over-Reduction, and (5) Combustion by O2
3.2.2 Oxidative Esterification
Oxidative esterification such as acetoxylation of unsaturated hydrocarbons is an important industrial process, to which bimetallic or intermetallic catalysts have been widely applied. (202) This reaction proceeds in the presence of molecular oxygen via oxidative addition of acetic acid to the substrate hydrocarbons, such as benzene, (209) toluene, (210) and 1,3-butadiene, (211) to form acetates. The obtained acetates can be easily converted to phenol, benzylalcohol, and 1,4-butandiol, respectively, which are the important raw materials for resins, perfumes, and fibers. (209-211) Compared with direct oxidation such as benzene oxidation, acetoxylation proceeds at low reaction temperatures (ca. 200 °C) and shows high selectivities to the final products. (209) Similarly for alcohol oxidation, Pd-based catalysts containing Au, (210) Tl, (36) Pb, (36) Bi, (36, 208) or Te (209, 212) have been reported to be effective catalysts for acetoxylation. For 1,3-butadiene to 1,4-diacetoxy-2-butene, Pd–Te (212) and Pd3Tl (36) catalysts showed the highest catalytic activity and selectivity among various Pd-based bimetallic or intermetallic compounds. The Pd–Te catalyst was industrialized for acetoxylation of 1,3-butadiene by the Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation in the 1980s. (213) This catalyst is also effective for benzene acetoxylation. Asakawa et al. reported that Pd-based alloys (possibly intermetallic compounds) with Te, Bi, and Sb showed a 2–4-fold higher formation rate of benzylacetate with good selectivity (80–95% compared with Pd at ca. 50%). (209) Among these alloys, Pd–Te alloy were highly resistant to leaching of the second metal, that is, catalyst deactivation. In the case of toluene acetoxylation, Komatsu et al. reported that Pd3Bi/SiO2 and Pd3Pb/SiO2 exhibit high selectivities to benzylacetate compared with other Pd-based catalysts. (32) A similar result was also reported by Miyake et al., (208) who found a sufficiently high catalyst stability with a Pd3Pb half-life of ca. 1000 h, whereas that of Pd was below 100 h.
Intermetallic Pd3Pb is also effective for other esterification process. Yamamatsu et al. reported that Pd3Pb selectively catalyzed oxidative esterification of methacrolein with O2 and methanol to form methyl methacrylate (MMA), (214) which is the major monomer of acrylic resins. Although metallic Pd also catalyzes this reaction, decarbonylation of methacrolein to propylene inevitably occurs, resulting in a poor yield of MMA (typically less than 30%). However, the formation of the Pd3Pb phase significantly improved the selectivity to higher than 95% by inhibiting the byproduction of propylene. Asahi-Kasei Chemical industrialized this catalytic system for MMA production from tert-butylalcohol. (214) In this process, tert-butylalcohol is initially oxidized to methacrolein at 300–450 °C, followed by direct methyl esterification to MMA at 50–100 °C. The Pd3Pb catalyst in this process was replaced in 2008 with a core–shell structured NiOx-Au catalyst showing higher catalytic activity and selectivity. (215)
Thus, Pd-based intermetallic compounds with typical heavy elements are very stable and suppress undesired side reactions, which makes them effective catalysts for oxidative esterification.
3.2.3 CO Oxidation
CO oxidation by O2 to CO2 is one of the simplest reactions in catalytic chemistry. This reaction is very important not only to fundamental chemistry but also for practical use in the purification of air, exhaust gas, and hydrogen for fuel cells. For purification of hydrogen for PEFC, the CO content should be reduced to ppm levels, which can be achieved by preferential oxidation of CO in excess hydrogen, referred to as preferential oxidation of CO in excess hydrogen (PROX). (216) Many researchers in catalytic chemistry and surface science have made substantial efforts to establish a thorough understanding of CO oxidation chemistry. (217-220) In this area, elemental Pt, Pd, or Rh, particularly the (111) surface, has been the focus of study as a target catalyst material, which can be found in various literature reports. (217) In addition, nanoscale Au was has been a topic of investigation in this field, (219) starting with the discovery of its low-temperature activity for CO oxidation by Haruta et al. (221) In this section, we describe Pt- and Au-based intermetallic compounds that are highly active for CO oxidation and PROX.
Saravanan and Abe et al. reported that Pt3Ti/SiO2 showed improved catalytic activity compared with Pt/SiO2 (222) and a 3-fold increase in CO conversion at maximum with a much lower onset (light-off) temperature (Pt3Ti/SiO2, 125 °C; Pt/SiO2, 200 °C). They explained the higher activity by weakened adsorption of CO on Pt3Ti compared with Pt, which was elsewhere confirmed by thermal desorption techniques. Because CO, in general, fully covers Pt sites, the weaker adsorption of CO promotes its desorption and releases oxygen adsorption sites. In addition, this is a rare example of the preparation of a supported intermetallic compound with an early transition metal and the application to catalytic conversion. For Au-based materials, Au–Cu catalysts were studied for use in CO oxidation. Zhang et al. showed that intermetallic Au3Cu (223) and Au0.5Cu0.5 alloy (224) supported on SBA-15 converted CO completely to CO2 even at room temperature. Because monometallic Au and Cu supported on SBA-15 showed much lower CO conversions, they suggested some synergy effect to account for the enhanced catalysis. An in situ characterization using X-ray diffraction (XRD), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES), and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) revealed that the Au3Cu intermetallic phase was transformed into a composite of metallic Au and tiny CuOx islands. (223) They proposed that the CuOx acts as an effective oxygen supplier and that low temperature CO oxidation proceeds along the perimeter of Au and CuOx. A similar structural change in AuCu under an oxidative atmosphere was reported by other research groups. (225, 226) Kameoka and Tsai (225) employed bulk AuCu as a catalyst and calcined it at 600 °C prior to CO oxidation. This treatment resulted in a two-order increase in the specific surface area (from <0.05 to 8.3 m2g–1) by the formation of a porous CuO layer and an increase in the CO conversion (from 20 to ca. 100%). They also reported that a fine porous Au catalyst could be synthesized by acid treatment with bulk AuCu3 to leach Cu, which exhibited an areal rate of CO oxidation comparable to that of Au/TiO2. (227)
Other than AuCu, a unique Au-based intermetallic compound, AuNa2, was recently reported to be active for CO oxidation at near room temperature. (228) The estimated apparent activation energy for CO oxidation was 31.6 kJ mol–1, which is comparable to that of Au/TiO2. This is also a very rare case of catalytic use of an alkali-metal-containing intermetallic compound. The AuNa2 catalyst was prepared by annealing a mixture of elemental Au and Na at 1050 °C, followed by grinding into fine particles under N2 and water treatment. They mentioned that the water treatment removed surface Na species and formed an Au-rich surface. A DFT calculation for CO oxidation over an AuNa2(111) surface revealed that (1) Na atoms in the second layer pop out to the top layer upon O2 exposure and act as binding sites of O2 (Figure 9, IS) and that (2) this allows CO reacting directly with O2 to form an OOCO intermediate, which is kinetically favorable (Figure 9, MS). (228)
Figure 9
Figure 9. Reaction pathways of coadsorbed CO and O2 on NaAu2(111) vs Au(221) from initial state (IS) via the intermediate complex OOCO* (MS) to final state (FS) of CO2. Transition states are TS1 and TS2. The C, O, Au, and Na are denoted by gray, red, yellow, and blue spheres, respectively. Barriers on NaAu2(111) are 0.05 eV (TS1) and 0.25 eV (TS2), compared to 0.68 and 0.32 eV on Au(221). Reprinted with permission from ref 228. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society.
In the case of PROX conditions, the catalyst is required to be not only selective (not to combust hydrogen) but also active in the low-temperature region (80–120 °C) corresponding to the working temperature of PEFC. (216) At present, various Pt- and Pd-based bimetallic catalysts have been reported to be effective for PROX. The counterpart metal is a late 3d transition or typical metal (Mn, (229) Fe, (230-232) Co, (223-235) Ni, (236) and Cu (237-239)) present in various states such as oxides, alloys, and intermetallic compounds. The widely accepted explanation for their low-temperature activity is that the second metal acts as an adsorption site for O2, as mentioned for the case of AuCu. (240) A kinetically favored Langmuir–Hinshelwood-type association of CO and an oxygen species is permitted in the presence of O2 adsorption sites, whereas an Eley–Rideal association is imposed in the absence of such sites because of the strong adsorption of CO on the Pt surface. Here, we choose some examples of intermetallic catalysts found to be effective for PROX.
Bersani et al. tested a series of Pd–Sn bimetallic catalysts for PROX. (241) They compared the catalytic activity of Pd–Sn/Al2O3 with various Pd–Sn ratios and revealed that increasing Sn content of the catalysts was correlated with higher catalytic activity (lower light-off temperature). Although the individual catalytic properties were not clearly mentioned, some intermetallic phases such as Pd3Sn, Pd2Sn, and Pd21Sn13 were observed for Sn-rich catalysts.
Komatsu et al. compared the catalytic activity of various SiO2-supported Pt-based intermetallic compounds (PtmMn/SiO2; M = Co, Cu, Fe, Ge, Sn, and Tl) and observed that Pt3Co and PtCu were the most active bimetallic combinations. (38) Optimizing the catalyst support resulted in even more active Pt3Co/MgO (28) and PtCu/Al2O3 (30) catalysts, which exhibited more than 95% CO conversion at 100 and 120 °C, respectively. In each case, the CO2 selectivity was 50%. Using an IR-TPD technique for CO adsorbed on PtCu/Al2O3 revealed that (1) Cu presented at the surface of PtCu and that (2) CO adsorption on Cu was much weaker than that on Pt. (30) Moreover, a kinetic study suggested that O2 adsorption was promoted by Cu and competed with CO adsorption. These results strongly indicate that Cu acts as an effective O2 adsorption site. XRD analysis showed that no changes in the PtCu phase, such as segregation of Pt and/or CuOx, occurred after the reaction. Note that the reaction atmosphere dominantly consists of hydrogen, so oxidative decomposition of the parent intermetallic phase is less likely to occur, in contrast with CO oxidation over AuCu. In addition to the O2 supply effect, another unique effect was also proposed to occur in these systems. A mechanistic study using D2 labeling indicated that a kinetically favorable reaction path via the formation of bicarbonate intermediate contributes to the low-temperature activity. (28) The bicarbonate intermediate is formed by the reaction of adsorbed CO on Pt, O2 on Co or Cu, and hydrogen in surface hydroxyl groups (Scheme 9).
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms of PROX over Pt3Co on an Oxide Support
3.2.4 Electrooxidation
Electrooxidation of fuels such as methanol or ethanol, that are used in direct fuel cells, is one of the most pertinent areas of study for energy conversion from chemicals to electricity. Compared with hydrogen-based fuel cells, direct fuel cells do not require on-site hydrogen storage or onboard steam reformers to produce hydrogen. (242) Monometallic Pt is an excellent electrocatalyst for oxidation of pure hydrogen. However, monometallic Pt is not suitable for the electrodes in small organic fuels because of the destructive poisoning of Pt by CO, which forms as an intermediate during oxidation of organic fuels. Pt–Ru/C is widely known as an efficient electrocatalyst for direct fuel cells, showing a high performance and good CO tolerance compared with Pt/C. (243, 244) However, leaching of Ru from Pt–Ru alloys remains a major problem in direct fuel cells.
Recently, major attention has been focused on Pt-based alloys and intermetallic compounds as electrocatalysts with high catalytic performance and improved corrosion resistance for electrooxidation of methanol, ethanol, or formaldehyde. In 2004, Disalvo and Abruña et al. compared the electrocatalytic performance of a series of Pt-based intermetallic compounds (PtmMn; M = Bi, In, Mn, Pb, Sb, and Sn) for oxidation of methanol, ethanol, formaldehyde, and ethylene glycol. (242) They observed that most bimetallic catalysts exhibited lower onset potentials and higher current densities than pure Pt and that the best performances were obtained with PtPb, PtBi, and PtIn. Among them, PtPb showed an onset potential that was 100 mV less positive and a peak current density ca. 40 times higher than those of Pt for methanol oxidation. A similar improved performance was also reported using PtSb. In 2008, Abe and Disalvo et al. discovered that intermetallic Pt3Ti showed a superior performance (lower onset potential, lower affinity toward CO, and higher current density) compared to pure Pt and Pt–Ru alloys for oxidation of methanol and formic acid. (34) The lower CO affinity is consistent with its weaker adsorption property mentioned in the last section. These discoveries triggered further exploration of more efficient Pt-based intermetallic catalysts. Several Pt-based have very recently been reported to be effective in direct fuel cell applications: Pt–Ga (Pt3Ga + Pt2Ga), (245) Pt3Nb, (46, 47) Pt8Ti, (246) Pt3Zn, (247) hexagonal Pt3Zr, (33) and core–shell structured Pt3Pb–PtPb. (248) These catalysts are typically nanosized and can be synthesized by liquid-phase reduction of the metal precursors as mentioned in section 2. It should be noted that the as-prepared Pt3Zr phase has a cubic crystal structure, which transforms into a hexagonal phase by annealing at 900–1000 °C. (33) Interestingly, hexagonal Pt3Zr exhibits higher catalytic activity and stability than cubic Pt3Zr (Figure 10). This enhancement was explained by an increase in surface energy, which was indicated both experimentally and theoretically. (249-251) A high-energy surface is likely to accelerate adsorption of the fuel molecules.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Transformation of Pt3Zr nanoparticles from cubic to hexagonal bulk structures, resulting in activation of fuel-oxidation catalysis on the surface. Reprinted with permission from ref 33. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
3.3 Steam Reforming
Steam reforming of fuels such as methane, methanol, and hydrocarbons is a commonly used process for producing hydrogen. Due to its high hydrogen content and ease of storage and transportation, methanol has been widely accepted as an effective hydrogen source for steam reforming. (252) Currently, Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 catalysts have been commercialized for methanol steam reforming (MSR). (253) However, the byproduction of CO at a level of around 1000 ppm hampers its application to PEFC, where a CO concentration of less than 50 ppm is required. (216) In 1993, a promising catalyst was discovered by Iwasa et al. They reported that the catalytic activity and CO2 selectivity of Pd was drastically improved when ZnO was used as a support. (254) Further characterization revealed that Pd atoms mediated reduction of ZnO to atomic Zn by hydrogen, followed by alloying to form an intermetallic PdZn phase on ZnO. (255, 256) Recent reports oriented toward practical uses suggested that the use of Pd/ZnO catalysts is feasible in designing high-performance methanol steam reformers for portable device applications. (257) The discovery of Pd/ZnO (PdZn/ZnO) catalysts triggered widespread interest for researchers not only in catalytic chemistry but also in the area of fundamental characterization, surface science, and theoretical calculations. Tsai and the collaborators performed XPS and DFT studies on the electronic structure of the PdZn phase. (258) They observed that the Pd 4d level shifted downward away from the Fermi level upon alloying with Zn, resulting in a valence band structure almost identical to that of pure Cu. On the other hand, the valence band structures of less selective PtZn and NiZn differ from those of Cu and PdZn. Interestingly, they also showed that PdCd as an electronic analogue of PdZn gave a high selectivity comparable to those of PdZn and Cu. Based on this observation, they proposed that the catalytic properties necessary for MSR are solely governed by the valence band structure of the catalyst. In a similar manner, they showed that the valence band structure of Pd could be reproduced by alloying Cu and Ni and that a CuNi alloy gave high CO selectivity in MSR and methanol decomposition, which was identical to the behavior of Pd. (259) A number of theoretical approaches to understanding the catalytic properties of PdZn have also been made. (260-264) In terms of calculations, the most stable (111), (100), and the stepped (221) (including Pd- and Zn-terminated) surfaces of intermetallic PdZn with a L10 structure were considered. Xie and Guo et al. performed a thorough DFT study on MSR over PdZn considering the involvement of both methanol and water, the latter of which decisively affects the selectivity. (262) They reported that dehydrogenation of methanol to formaldehyde was kinetically favored on the flat (111) surface (Scheme 10, blue lines), whereas deep dehydrogenation to CO was kinetically unfavorable (Scheme 10, red lines). In contrast, another pathway involving the reaction of formaldehyde with OH, formed by water activation was suggested as a kinetically favorable and likely route to form CO2 (Scheme 10, green lines). The formaldehyde intermediate undergoes deep dehydrogenation to CO or hydroxylation to CO2, which is the turning point determining selectivity. There is approximately 50 kJ mol–1 difference in activation energy for PdZn, resulting in the selective CO formation. They also demonstrated that the reaction network on PdZn(111) is very similar to that on Cu(111), which is also consistent with the similarities in the d band structures of PdZn and Cu. A modified overview considering the contribution of PdZn(221) stepped surfaces was also proposed. (22) The activation energies in methanol dehydrogenation to formaldehyde on PdZn(221) surfaces were significantly lower than those on PdZn(111) (260, 265, 266) and close to the experimental apparent activation energy (48 kJ mol–1). (267) Therefore, the overall reaction network designated in red values in Scheme 10 is more likely.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Proposed Reaction Network for MSR on PdZn(111) and (211) Surfaces;a Adapted with Permission from Ref 262. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society
Scheme aThe reaction barriers are given in black and red values for (111) and (211) surfaces, respectively. The CO and CO2 channels are colored in red and green, respectively.
Armbrüster et al. investigated the effect of the Pd/Zn composition ratio on catalytic performance in MSR. (268) Since the intermetallic PdZn phase possesses a range of compositions (47–62.5%Pd), allowing an enrichment in one component without changing the parent tetragonal crystal structure is allowed. They varied the composition of the bulk PdxZny within x = 0.47–0.59 and revealed that the catalytic activity and selectivity drastically dropped in the Pd-rich region. Surprisingly, the drop in selectivity (from ca. 95 to less than 20%) was observed in a very narrow range (x = 0.48–0.53). They also pointed out the presence of Zn oxide species on Zn-rich catalysts that were prereduced. On the basis of these results, they proposed that the significant functionality in selective catalysis for SRM arises from the combined effects of PdZn and Zn oxide rather than the intermetallic PdZn phase alone. (268) In relation to this finding, a DFT study on water activation showed that the ZnO(0001) surface (41 kJ mol–1) (269) displayed a lower activation energy than the PdZn(221)Zn surface (43–59 kJ mol–1), (270) suggesting a contribution from Zn oxide species. In this context, Zn oxide likely acts as an effective activation site for water, which is necessary for conversion to CO2. Further details on the properties of PdZn catalysts can be found in recent reviews by Armbrüster et al. (22) Their group also reported certain related bimetallic systems for use in MSR. For example, they recently showed that an intermetallic PdIn or Pd2In3 phase was formed on PdO/In2O3 with H2 treatment at 300 or 390 °C, respectively. (271) The catalysts containing these intermetallic phases exhibited good CO2 selectivities (PdIn 91%, Pd2In3 98%) and long-term stability up to 100 h in MSR. Bulk intermetallic NiZn was also studied for MSR, which showed 98% selectivity to CO2. (272) In this case, the parent NiZn phase was partially decomposed into a mixture of NiZn, ZnO, and a Ni0.7Zn0.3 alloy, the latter of which was suggested to be true active phase for MSR. Besides, Pd2Ga formed from a hydrotalcite-like Pd–Mg–Ga composite was reported to be effective for MSR. (166)
3.4 Other Reactions
Here, we cover several intermetallic compound catalysts that have been used for reactions not included in the previous sections. PtSn (273) and PdZn (274, 275) phases were reported to be active in the reverse water gas shift reaction. PdZn also shows high selectivity to oxygenated products in the hydroformylation of ethylene. (276) A series of bulk Ru-based intermetallic compounds (RumMn, M = Ce, Dy, Ge, La, Nb, Sc, Si, Ta, Ti, Y, Zr) were tested for use in ammonia decomposition to produce H2 and N2. (277) Ru2La was found to be more active than other intermetallic compounds and monometallic Ru. This observation was extended to the development of a Raney-type Ru–La catalyst prepared by base treatment of the ternary intermetallic compound Ru2LaAl10. The Raney-type Ru–La catalyst showed a high specific surface area (ca. 100 m2g–1) and higher TOF than the corresponding Raney Ru catalyst prepared from Ru4Al13.
3.5 Remarks
We have listed a number of intermetallic or alloy catalysts for various types of reactions. It is challenging to find a simple and clear-cut concept to describe the diverse roles of the bimetallic phases in enhanced catalysis. However, one may extract some general assessments for each reaction category as follows.
For selective (de)hydrogenation, intermetallic phases provide certain functions to protect or release a specific functional group, mainly alkenyl C═C bonds, such as (1) anchoring sites, (2) modifying adsorption properties, or (3) molecular recognition ability.
For oxidation and steam reforming, the positive roles of the intermetallic phases can be distinguished as follows: (i) suppressing undesired side reactions, (ii) improving catalyst stability, (iii) providing O2 adsorption sites, and (iv) acting as precursors of the active components. Since oxidation and steam reforming typically use more severe conditions compared with reactions performed in inert or reductive atmospheres, the roles (ii) and (iv) have important implications.
To develop a comprehensive understanding of the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, one should work not only to develop good catalysts but also to elucidate the process of catalysis at an atomic level. Therefore, to avoid complications in mechanistic studies, meeting the following criteria is desirable: (a) high phase purity, (b) use of inert supports or bulk materials, and (c) simple reaction conditions. Satisfying these concerns will reinforce the reliability of mechanistic studies, characterizations, and theoretical approaches.
4 Important Effects Controlling Catalysis
In the previous section, we showed that intermetallic catalysts provide various effects that enhance catalysis. In this section, these effects are divided into several categories and explained in detail. In addition to the conventional (1) electronic and (2) geometric effects, we introduce (3) steric and (4) ordering effects, which are observed only for intermetallic compounds. These effects sometimes appear together, and therefore, one should carefully distinguish the contributions of each individual effect on enhanced catalysis.
4.1 Electronic Effect
The term “ligand effect” is used for a change in the catalytic or adsorption properties by modification of the electronic states of the parent metal on alloying with a second metal. (278) Historically, this term was coined to indicate an electronic perturbation by neighboring second metal atoms against a long-range electronic effect. (279) However, these days, this term has been used almost synonymously with electronic effects. (278, 280) The degree of modification depends strongly on the nature and composition of the second metal. In general, a drastic change in the electronic state critically affects the heat of adsorption and the activation barrier, thereby altering catalytic activity and/or selectivity. However, many literature reports on bimetallic catalysts provide fragmentary information about the relationship between the electronic state and reactivity, which makes it challenging to establish a clear-cut relationship. In this section, we describe some systematic studies that clearly represent how the electronic state governs reactivity.
For transition-metal-based catalysts, the character of d band structure may govern catalysis because valence d electrons mediate the adsorption and elementary reaction steps. On the basis of this concept, the Hammer–Nørskov d band model, the so-called “d band theory”, has been developed to establish a clear-cut relationship between reactivity and d band character. (281, 282) According to this model, the adsorptivity and reactivity are determined by the position of the center of mass of d electrons and holes (d band centers) relative to the Fermi level. This is because the d band center determines the positions of bonding and antibonding states, and hence the degree of filling of the antibonding states. The entire d band structure can be observed experimentally using X-ray emission and absorption spectra in the valence band region, which reflect occupied and unoccupied states, respectively. Alternatively, Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) techniques can be used. Linic et al. employed the latter techniques with the aid of DFT calculations for the Ni–Sn system. (283) They found that (1) the addition of Sn to Ni weakened adsorption of various species such as C, O, CH, and CO and that (2) the d band center of Ni was downshifted by alloying with Sn. These observations were reasonably linked on the basis of d band theory. They also revealed that the number of d electrons and holes of Ni were preserved upon alloying with Sn, indicating no charge transfer between Ni and Sn. The change in the d band structure was explained by the formation of new electronic states due to hybridization between the d states of Ni and the s and p states of Sn.
A more clear relationship between reactivity and d band center was reported by Stamenkovic et al. They observed a volcano-relationship between activity in oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) over Pt3M (M = Ti, V, Fe, Co, and Ni) and their d band center values (Figure 11). (284) This trend is explained as follows. When the d band center is too far from the Fermi level (left side of the volcano), weak adsorption of O2 and intermediates limit the reaction rate. On the other hand, if the d band center is too close to the Fermi level (right side of the volcano), strong adsorption of surface species such as OH inhibits the release of free Pt and limits the reaction rate. A similar relationship was also reported, for H2–D2 equilibration over Ni and various Ni3M intermetallic compounds (M = Ge, Nb, Sn, Ta, and Ti). (285) A strong positive correlation was observed (Figure 12) between the d band centers and the apparent activation energies obtained by Arrhenius-type plots. The lower d band center weakens Ni–H(D) bonds, which lowers the desorption barrier of HD. For H2–D2 equilibration, the desorption barrier of HD corresponds to the overall activation energy (Scheme 11). In this case, no top was observed as in the case for ORR, probably due to the absence of any competing path. Although these two studies estimated the d band center only from XPS or ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS), it should be noted that good correlations were found. In a related study, it was reported that the d band centers measured from photoelectron spectroscopy agreed with those calculated by DFT. (286) This might be due to the much smaller number of unoccupied states than of occupied states.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Relationships between experimentally measured specific activity for the ORR on Pt3M surfaces in 0.1 M HClO4 at 333 K versus the d band center position for the Pt-skin surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 284. Copyright 2007 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Relationship between the apparent activation energy of H2–D2 equilibrium over Ni and Ni3M intermetallics and their potentials of the d band center.
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) Energy Diagram of the Electronic State of Ni–H(D) Bonding and (b) Energy Profiles of H2–D2 Equilibration over Ni and Ni3M Intermetallic Compounds
In addition to the structure of the valence band, electron density of the active metal is often considered as the key role to control catalytic performance. The formation of intermetallic phase typically induces charge transfer from one metal to the other due to the significant difference in the electron-withdrawing character. (79, 81, 86) Partially charged metal atoms are likely to interact preferentially with polar molecules, providing a specific reaction pathway. The electron density of the active metal component of intermetallic compounds is evaluated typically by vibrational frequency of adsorbed CO, where the electron density affects the C–O bond strength by π back-bonding. Figure 13 shows the relationship between vibrational frequencies of linearly adsorbed CO on Rh-based intermetallic compounds and their calculated atomic charges (Hirshfeld charge) of bulk or surface Rh. (81) A strong correlation was observed between the vibrational frequencies and Rh atomic charges, demonstrating that the vibrational frequency effectively reflects the electron density of Rh. Rh becomes electron-rich by the formation of intermetallic phases with the partial charge ranging from 0 to −0.14. It should be noted that the electron density of Rh can be controlled by choosing an appropriate second metal. For most compounds, atomic charges of surface Rh were slightly more negative than those of bulk Rh, probably due to the presence of dangling bonds.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Relationship between vibrational frequencies of linearly adsorbed CO on Rh-based catalysts and their atomic charges (Hirshfeld charge) of bulk or surface Rh.
Thus, we here show that the electronic state of the active metal can be changed drastically and/or controlled by the formation of intermetallic phases, which can improve the catalytic property. It is also important that the electronic states can be controlled by an appropriate choice of the second metal, which is necessary for developing a well-designed reaction environment.
4.2 Geometric Effect
The formation of an alloy or an intermetallic phase changes the geometrical environment at the catalyst surface. From a microscopic perspective, the incorporation of catalytically inert or less-active metals (N) into the surface lattice of the parent active metal (M) decreases the coordination number of the surface M–M shell and the size of M ensembles. Therefore, adsorption and/or reactions that require multifold sites or large ensembles are less favored on the alloyed surface, increasing the selectivity for allowed reactions. This geometric effect is called an “ensemble effect”. (279) In addition, a sufficient reduction in the ensemble size is referred to as “site isolation”. (95, 96) As mentioned occasionally in section 3, ensemble effects have been frequently associated with various selective conversions. There has been several reactions that require large ensembles as follows: (1) hydrogenolysis, (287-289) (2) dehydrocyclyzation, (289) (3) acetylene coupling to benzene, (290) (4) alkylidene formation, (91) and (5) dissociative adsorption of CO (291) and NO. (292) Among these, hydrogenolysis of C–C, C–O, or C–N bonds and alkylidene formation leading to alkane typically occur in the hydrogenation or dehydrogenation process as undesired side reactions. Because hydrogenation or dehydrogenation does not require large ensembles, (91) the formation of an intermetallic phase that reduces the ensemble size, drastically improves the selectivity for the desired reaction.
Thus, in a commonly used sense, the ensemble effect indicates the change in the adsorption modes due to the reduction of the ensemble size. However, in some cases, this term means the change in adsorption energy itself due to the replacement of the adsorbent atom, (278, 293) which often becomes the driving force to change the adsorption mode. In this context, the formation of intermetallic or alloy phases is generally accompanied not only by ensemble effects but also by ligand effects. This is because the incorporation of the second metal, whose character differs significantly from the parent metal, typically induces a drastic change in the electronic structure and hence in the adsorption strength and reaction profiles as well. Therefore, it is important to distinguish the individual contributions of these effects. Nørskov et al. proposed a theory-based quantitative estimation of ligand and ensemble effects using CO adsorption on the Au-doped Pd(111) surface. (293)Scheme 12 shows a schematic illustration of this concept: CO is adsorbed on a series of hollow sties, where the number of Au atoms in the hollow site increases from 0 to 3. The number of Au atoms neighboring the hollow site differs between the upper and lower columns. In each column, the energy gained by Au incorporation includes the contribution of both ensemble and ligand effects (total effect = En+1 – En) because the adsorbent atom and composition vary. Here, the ligand effect is represented as the difference in adsorption energy between two hollow sites with an identical Pd/Au composition and different numbers of neighboring Au atoms, namely, E′n – En. The ensemble effect is obtained by subtracting the ligand effect from the corresponding total effect, namely, En+1 – E′n. Figure 14 shows the ligand, ensemble, and total effects as functions of n, revealing that the ensemble effect dominates the total effect. (293)
Scheme 12
Scheme 12. Quantitative Estimation of Ensemble and Ligand Effectsa
Scheme aThe red circle indicates the site of CO adsorption.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Separation of the ligand and ensemble effects from the total effect for the case of CO adsorption on hollow sites of Au/Pd(111). The number along the horizontal axes corresponds to the number of Au atoms at the hollow site. The squares, circles, and triangles correspond to total effect, ligand effect, and ensemble effect, respectively. Reproduced with permission from ref 293. Copyright 2001 PCCP Owner Societies.
Another approach to studying an intrinsic ensemble effect was recently reported by Widmer et al. using well-defined PdGa(111) and (1̅1̅1̅) surfaces. (294) Although these two surfaces have equal surface symmetries and very similar electronic structures, the atomic configurations of Pd differ significantly: (111) has a separated 3-fold Pd3 trimer, whereas (1̅1̅1̅) has an isolated single Pd1 atom. These specific characteristics allow the intrinsic ensemble effect to be studied with a minimum contribution from ligand effects. Figure 15 shows scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) images of PdGa(111) and (1̅1̅1̅) surfaces with a very low coverage of CO adsorption. (294) CO molecules were adsorbed on the hollow site for the (111) surface (triangular depression), whereas they occurred on the top site for the (1̅1̅1̅) surface (bright protrusion). A reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS) study revealed that for the (111) surface, migration to on-top adsorption was observed upon an increase in the CO coverage, whereas for (1̅1̅1̅), only on-top adsorption was observed. Note that no bridging CO was observed on PdGa(111) unlike for Pd(111), where migration to hollow, bridge, and on-top adsorption is typically observed. These observations could be attributed to the intrinsic ensemble effect of the specific Pd configurations.
Figure 15
Figure 15. STM images of PdGa:B(111) and PdGa:B(1̅1̅1̅) surfaces. Pd and Ga are indicated by cyan and red balls. Reprinted with permission from ref 294. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
For ensemble effects, the second metal atom is present as a spacer that separates the active metal atoms. In contrast, for some intermetallic catalysts, the second metal atom acts as a chemically functional site, such as an anchoring site for alcohols, carbonyl groups, or molecular oxygen. This allows preferential adsorption of specific molecules (or functional groups) and/or spatial separation of the other molecule or group that should be protected from the active metal, promoting the desired reaction. Therefore, this kind of effect, termed “site addition”, can also be categorized as a geometric effect. Next, we show an example of the site addition effect allowing a drastic change in the product selectivity. As shown in section 3.1.4, PdZn/Al2O3 shows a high selectivity in alcohol-based N-alkylation of reactive amines, whereas Pd/Al2O3 gave poor selectivity to the desired product. (149) The selectivity generally depends on which alcohol or amine is activated: alcohol activation leads to N-alkylation, while amine activation leads to undesired amine dimerization. Figure 16 shows the adsorption energies of O and N atoms on hollow sites of Pd(111), PdCu(110), and PdZn(111) surfaces. (149) On Pd(111), N shows a higher adsorption energy than O, representing the azophilic character of Pd. In contrast, for PdCu(110), incorporation of Cu inverted this trend, producing an oxophilic surface. On PdZn(111), adsorption of O becomes much more strongly favored with a difference in adsorption energy of 90 kJ mol–1. Thus, a drastic change in the adsorption properties is achieved by the formation of a PdZn phase, which is attributed to the strong oxophilic character of the Zn atom. Thus, the PdZn surface is capable of preferential adsorption and activation of alcohol over amines, enabling highly selective N-alkylation catalysis. Figure 17 shows the relationship between selectivity and the difference in adsorption energy between N and O (ΔEO–N). (149) The relative reaction rate of alcohol activation over amine activation was employed as a measure of selectivity. A strong positive correlation was observed, demonstrating the preferential adsorption and activation achieved by surface modification. Note that the vertical axis is represented on a logarithmic scale. This is because the relative rate should be proportional to the exponential of the energy difference, provided that the selectivity is thermodynamically controlled. A detailed explanation is provided in the next section. Thus, an intermetallic compound that has additional functional sites neighboring at the atomic level provides an effective bifunctional reaction environment.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Calculated adsorption energies of oxygen (EO) and nitrogen (EN) atoms on various Pd-based surfaces. Optimized structures of the surfaces with oxygen atoms adsorbed on the hollow sites are shown.
Figure 17
Figure 17. Relation between rA/rD and ΔEO–N.
In a strict sense, this site addition effect might include both geometric and electronic contributions similarly to the discussion for the quantitative estimation of ensemble and ligand effects (Scheme12 and Figure 14). In this context, one may wonder about the change in the adsorption properties due to the modified d band structure of PdZn being similar to that of Cu, as mentioned in section 3.3. However, it was reported that Cu/Al2O3 showed a lower selectivity in N-alkylation than PdZn/Al2O3: for example, for N-benzylation of aniline, Cu/Al2O3 shows 85% selectivity, while PdZn/Al2O3 exhibits >99% selectivity. (295) Therefore, the high selectivity observed for PdZn cannot be explained only by the electronic effects.
4.3 Steric Effect
Electronic and geometric effects are generally observed for both alloys and intermetallic compounds. This means that the orderedness of intermetallic phases is not essential to these effects. One may question which functions “only intermetallic compounds can do”. Considering that a specific and ordered atomic arrangement appears on the surface of intermetallic compounds, such an environment might impose some steric restrictions to adsorbate configurations and/or reaction dynamics, thereby allowing controlled catalysis. Very recently, two examples of such catalysis were reported by Furukawa et al. using Rh-based intermetallic compounds. One is the stereoselective alkene isomerization by hydrogen over RhSb/SiO2, (123) briefly mentioned in section 3.1.2. Hydrogen-mediated alkene isomerization is generally accompanied by overhydrogenation to alkane due to hydrogen attack from several directions. However, some Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds belonging to the orthorhombic Pnma space group (RhSb, RuSb, and RhGe) showed high trans-alkene selectivity in isomerization of cis-stilbene (Figure 18, red bars). In contrast, Rh and Rh-based intermetallic compounds of the cubic Pm3̅m space groups (RhGa, RhIn, and RhZn) showed low selectivities to trans-stilbene over overhydrogenated diphenylethane. A similar result was also observed for isomerization of cis-β-methylstylene (Figure 18, green bars), suggesting that the selectivity depends on the space group of the solid. To the best of our knowledge, this observation, space-group-dependent selectivity, has never been reported in the literature on catalytic conversion. Interestingly, for cis-β-methylstylene, each selectivity was slightly lower than that for cis-stilbene. Thus, the selectivity is likely to depend not only on the space group of the solid but also on the steric hindrance of the alkyl group of alkenes. These results strongly suggest that some steric effects occur on the specific surface structure of Pnma intermetallic compounds. A Wulff construction and FT-IR study with CO adsorption on RhSb revealed that the surface was dominated by (211), (020), and (013) planes (Scheme 13). (123) These surfaces certainly display specific atomic arrangements, where one-dimensionally aligned and slightly zigzagged Rh and Sb arrays appear. DFT calculations showed that on these planes (hereafter, 1D-planes), hydrogen diffusion on the surface is restricted in the direction along the Rh arrays. Moreover, DFT calculations with adsorbed cis-2-butene suggested that access of hydrogen to the alkenyl carbon atoms of cis-2-butene is limited to only one direction (Scheme 13, light green arrow) because of the steric hindrance of one methyl group of cis-2-butene (Scheme 13, right side). This unique hydrogenation behavior allows one-atom hydrogenation for isomerization but inhibits two-atom hydrogenation for alkane formation. Thus, the specific surface structure of 1D-planes imposed a steric restriction on the reaction dynamics of hydrogen addition. On the other hand, for cubic compounds, overhydrogenation over Rh-terminated planes such as (100) is attributed to the low selectivities.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Selectivities to trans-alkenes during cis-stilbene and cis-β-methylstyrene isomerizations catalyzed by various SiO2-supported Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds and monometallic Rh under atmospheric pressure of H2. Selectivities at 50% conversion are shown. The space group of the metallic phase appears in parentheses.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. (a) Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization via Alkyl Intermediate; (b) Equilibrium Crystal Shape and the Corresponding Surface Atomic Arrangement of a RhSb Nanoparticle; and (c) Limited Hydrogen Access to cis-2-butene Adsorbed on RhSb(020) Plane
The other example is the selective hydrogenation of nitroarenes over RhIn/SiO2, (81) mentioned in section 3.1.1.2. In this catalytic system, the selectivity to aminostyrene at 50% conversion varies widely from 3% (Rh/SiO2) to 97% (RhIn/SiO2), depending on the metallic phase. A kinetic study on this system revealed that the rate-determining step was hydrogen supply (dissolution or diffusion) and that adsorption of the substrate nitrostyrene was saturated. Therefore, the selectivity depends on which functional group of nitrostyrene, nitro or vinyl, binds preferentially to the surface. Figure 19 shows the relationship between nitro-hydrogenation selectivity and adsorption energy (Ead) of 4-nitrostyrene (NS) with nitro and vinyl moieties. (81) As a selectivity scale, the ratio of the nitro hydrogenation rate to the vinyl hydrogenation rate (rNO2/rC═C) was set as the y-axis. The Ead of vinyl adsorption differed drastically depending on the surface, displaying a positive correlation with selectivity. Conversely, for nitro adsorption, the Ead values are within a small range without any correlation. Thus, the selectivity varies depending on the favorability of vinyl adsorption. For monometallic Rh, multiple coordination to Rh ensembles makes vinyl adsorption significantly favored. This is clearly reflected in the presence of aromatic C–H bonds with sp3-like conformations. However, for bimetallic surfaces, this effect is diminished by inert second metal atoms adjacent to Rh atoms. The aromatic C–H bonds show sp2-like conformations (e.g., RhZn and RhPb2), suggesting very weak adsorption. Vinyl adsorption becomes much less favored when the Rh sites are concave (e.g., RhIn and RhBi). This is because bending of the π plane is needed to avoid the significant steric hindrance between the second metal and the phenyl ring. On the other hand, such steric hindrance can be avoided for nitro adsorption because the nitro adsorption has an end-on geometry, thereby fitting within the concave Rh sites. Thus, the concave Rh structure observed for RhIn(110) is capable of chemoselective molecular recognition.
Figure 19
Figure 19. Relationship between the nitro hydrogenation selectivity (rNO2/rC═C) and the adsorption energy of NS on slab models with vinyl (square) or nitro (triangle) moiety. Several NS structures are shown.
The relationship between the selectivity and Ead has a physical meaning as represented in eq 1:
where rx, NSx, NS, and Ex (x = NO2 or C═C) are the hydrogenation rate of x, adsorbed NS with x, unadsorbed NS, and adsorption energy of NS with x, respectively. The equation indicates the conversion of the rate ratio to the adsorbate concentration ratio and represents the fraction of adsorbed NS using the Boltzmann distribution equation with its Ead. As a consequence, a simple proportional relationship is found between the logarithm of the rate ratio and ΔE. The plot of this function shows a good linear relationship through the origin (Figure 20), demonstrating the validity of this model. (81)
Figure 20
Figure 20. Relationship between ln(3rNO2/rC═C) and ΔEad (EC═C – ENO2) for RhM/SiO2.
In summary, we showed two examples of novel steric effects governed by specific surface structures of intermetallic compounds. These effects and selective conversions rely strongly on the specific and ordered surface atomic arrangement, and hence, they are surely functions that only intermetallic compounds can perform. Although only a few examples have been discovered as of yet, future investigations will bring similar observations and open up a new horizon for this area of chemistry.
4.4 Ordering Effect
The major difference between intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys is whether the structure is ordered or disordered. Therefore, if the catalytic performance of an ordered alloy is superior to that of a disordered alloy with identical metal compositions and crystal systems, the resulting improvement should be termed “ordering effect”. Here, we should consider a certain bimetallic alloy that is able to form both ordered and disordered structures. For bulk materials, such bimetallic combinations are rare (e.g., Au–Cu, Pt–Fe, Pt–Co, and Pt–Cu). These pairs of metals are slightly separated in the periodic table compared with solid-solution alloys (Figure 3). Therefore, these alloys have intermediate characters between those of solid-solution alloys and intermetallic compounds. Ordered alloys in this category are called Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds, (296) which have very large compositional ranges. As shown in the phase diagram of the Pt–Co bimetallic system (Figure 21), (297) the ordered PtCo phase ranges from ca. 40 to 75% Co in the low-temperature region. However, above 825 °C, Pt and Co become isomorphous, and disordered Pt–Co alloys are formed. In the case of nanoparticles, deviation from phase diagrams may occur because their situation differs significantly from that of bulk materials (e.g., effects of dangling bonds). Ordered and disordered structures are distinguished by the presence or absence of additional diffraction patterns derived from the superlattice structures. Figure 22a shows the XRD patterns of ordered PtCu3 and disordered Pt0.25Cu0.75 particles with their atomic arrangements. (298) Ordered PtCu3 exhibited two additional peaks at 24° and 34° corresponding to 100 and 110 reflections of the Pm3̅m structure, respectively. Conversely, for disordered Pt0.25Cu0.75, these reflections do not appear due to the extinction rule for the highly symmetric Fm3̅m space group. Figure 22b shows TEM image of a partially ordered PtCu3 nanoparticle with core–shell disordered–ordered structure. The fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the core and shell regions (Figure 22c,d, respectively) showed the corresponding Fm3̅m and Pm3̅m reflections, respectively.
Figure 21
Figure 21. Phase diagram of Pt–Co system.
Figure 22
Figure 22. (a) XRD patterns of ordered and disordered carbon supported PtCu3 samples together with the representative Pm3̅m and Fm3̅m atomic arrangements, illustrated on the right. Structural analysis of partially ordered PtCu3 nanoparticles. (b) High-resolution TEM image of a single PtCu3 nanoparticle crystal oriented along the crystallographic [110] axis showing an apparent core–shell disordered–ordered structure. Averaged FFT power spectra of the (c) shell region with additional symmetry-specific Pm3̅m reflections (indicated with 110 and 001); and the (d) core Fm3̅m region without the superstructure reflections. Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.
The ordering effect was first reported by Watanabe et al. in 1994, where ordered and disordered Pt–Co alloys were tested for ORR. (299) They prepared an ordered tetragonal PtCo alloy (intermetallic compound) by annealing as-prepared Pt–Co at 600 °C. Additional annealing at 800 or 900 °C followed by quenching resulted in a structural transformation into the disordered Pt–Co alloy with an fcc structure, which is consistent with the phase diagram shown in Figure 21. They found that the ordered PtCo alloy showed 1.35-fold higher electrocatalytic activity. In this decade, similar improvements in electrocatalytic performance have been reported using Pt3Ti, (34) Pt3Co, (300, 301) PtFe, (302) and PtCu3. (298, 303-305) Note that in some of these materials, remarkable enhancements in electrocatalytic activity and durability have been achieved through structure ordering. (34, 301, 304) For instance, for Pt3Ti-catalyzed methanol electrooxidation, Pt3Ti with an ordered Pm3̅m structure (intermetallic compound with an L12 structure) showed a much higher current density than that with a disordered Fm3̅m structure (solid-solution alloy with an fcc structure (e.g., 0.34 vs 0.084 mAcm–2 at the potential of +0.6 V), (34) indicating an influence from the ordering effect. In this study, the ordered Pt3Ti was prepared by annealing the disordered Pt3Ti at 600 °C, causing a significant increase in the particle size form ca. 3 to 37 nm. Therefore, involvement of a size effect in enhanced catalytic performance has been suggested in addition to the ordering effect. Thus, in most of the cases referred to above, the important factors affecting the electrocatalytic performance typically varies, such as particle size distribution and/or the bimetallic composition, making it challenging to clarify the intrinsic contribution of the ordering effect on enhanced performance.
Very recently, Hodnik et al. studied the ordering effect in ORR using ordered and disordered PtCu3 alloys with an identical initial composition, particle dispersion, and size distribution to eliminate all coinciding effects. (298) They observed that the ordered PtCu3 nanoparticles supported on carbon exhibited higher electrocatalytic performance and durability in various conditions than the disordered PtCu3 catalyst. The higher durability was attributed to a higher resistance to Cu leaching in the ordered structure. The ordered PtCu3 structure statistically includes 24 Cu–Cu and 24 Pt–Cu bonds per unit cell on average, whereas the disordered structure contains 27 Cu–Cu, 18 Pt–Cu, and 3 Pt–Pt bonds. Considering the much lower potential of copper leaching from a Cu substrate than from Pt (0.34 to 0.7 V), (306, 307) the ordered structure containing fewer Cu–Cu bonds should exhibit higher resistance to Cu leaching. Although the authors did not clearly mention it, in our opinion the higher resistance to Cu leaching could be categorized as an ordering effect, namely, a geometric ordering effect. This effect maximizes the number of ideal sites (here, Pt–Cu bonds). To exclude the effect of Cu leaching, they also plotted the specific and mass activities as functions of the amount of Cu removed as shown in Figure 23. (298) The ordered PtCu3 showed higher activities than the disordered PtCu3 in the entire region, clearly indicating that the greater amount of residual Cu is not the sole reason for the enhancement and that an intrinsic ordering effect is operating. Although the nature of the intrinsic ordering effect has not been clarified, they suggested two possibilities: the ordered structure (1) changes the lateral strain in the Pt-skin overlayer, modifying the binding energies of the adsorbates and (2) results in the formation of a skin-type rather than a skeleton-type morphology after dealloying. In any case, the observed ordering effect is certainly another example of what only intermetallic compounds can do, in addition to the steric effect.
Figure 23
Figure 23. (a) Specific activity and (b) mass activity in relation to the copper content of the electrolyte upon different electrochemical treatments (dealloying and subsequent degradation). Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.
From a macroscopic perspective, the durability of ordered alloys may be related to their higher thermodynamic stability, that is, a negative heat of ordering (ΔH0). Considering that the change in entropy for ordering is negative (ΔS0 < 0), ΔH0 must be sufficiently negative (ΔH0 < 0) to cancel out the entropy term because the formation of an ordered structure upon annealing at high temperatures is spontaneous (ΔG0 < 0). This concept is consistent with the observation that annealing at very high temperatures results in disordering (>800 °C, Pt–Co) (299) due to the significant contribution of the entropy term.
4.5 Remarks
In this section, we have summarized the various effects that control the catalytic performance of intermetallic compounds (i.e., electronic, geometric, steric, and ordering effects). It is noteworthy that the electronic state and the surface environment of the catalyst can be well controlled by an appropriate choice of a bimetallic combination and composition. This allows for more sophisticated fine-tuning of the catalyst design compared with conventional techniques for inorganic heterogeneous catalysts.
5 Future Tasks in This Field
As mentioned in the above sections, intermetallic compounds have various advantages that aid in constructing well-structured reaction environments. However, several future tasks should be considered in order to develop and establish a novel catalytic chemistry based on intermetallic compounds, as outlined below. In addition, several challenges involved in performing highly difficult reactions using intermetallic compounds are also mentioned.
5.1 Stability of Surface Structures
For heterogeneous solid catalysts, any catalytic reaction occurs at the outermost surface of the solid. Therefore, the real surface structure of the catalyst material should be taken into account. Particularly for intermetallic catalysts operating in the presence of oxidizing molecules such as O2 or H2O, it is necessary to know whether the second metal retains its original intermetallic state in order to determine the role of the intermetallic phase. In relation to this, Behrens et al. recently showed an example of an intermetallic compound of which surface was highly sensitive to air and water. (111, 308) They observed that the surface of Pd2Ga decomposed into a mixture of Pd and Ga oxide species even under an Ar atmosphere with trace amounts of O2 and H2O (<100 ppb), indicating the highly oxophilic character of Ga. In this system, TEM observations showed that a thin Ga oxide overlayer was observed around the surface of Pd2Ga particles. A similar surface decomposition of Pd2Ga was also confirmed in liquid-phase hydrogenation of alkynes. The formation of oxide phase in the presence of oxygen was also observed for PdZn catalysts. (268) A highly oxophilic character of the component of intermetallic compounds was also observed for Pd3Ti or Pd3Nb, where surface oxidation occurs even in the presence of <1 ppb O2. (48) On the other hand, a remarkable oxidation resistance of the second base metal was also reported. Baiker et al. performed an in situ XAFS characterization of a Pd–Bi/Al2O3 catalyst during liquid-phase oxidation of alcohol under 1 atm O2. (187) They showed that Bi retained the zerovalent state until the substrate alcohol was consumed, which was followed by aerobic oxidation of Bi(0) to Bi3+. This indicates that oxygen is used only for consuming the eliminated hydrogen from alcohol, not for surface oxidation during the presence of alcohol as a hydrogen donor. Note that for this catalyst, Bi is loaded on the surface of Pd but is not present in the bulk, therefore the Bi-LIII edge XAFS data provides information about the surface. Furthermore, an XPS analysis of a Pd3Pb/SiO2 catalyst for amine oxidation revealed that Pb in the Pd3Pb phase nearly retained the metallic state with a trace amount of PbO even after contact with air. (203) This catalyst was pretreated under H2 at 400 °C, followed by immediate transportation (in air) into the spectrometer. Moreover, for the RhSb/SiO2 catalyst for alkene isomerization, TEM observations revealed that amorphous overlayers could not be detected around the RhSb nanoparticles, (123) indicating that significant surface degradation of RhSb does not occur through TEM sample preparation using an organic solvent in air. Thus, the stability of the intermetallic phase depends on the particular bimetallic combination. The diversity in the stability of intermetallic phases can probably be attributed to intrinsic oxophilicity of the second metal. Strictly speaking, for example, the adsorption energy of an oxygen atom on an individual surface may be an indicator of the degree of oxophilicity. Alternatively, as a rough scale of oxophilicity, we propose using the oxidation potentials of the metals. Figure 24 shows an energy diagram of the oxidation potentials of various metals to the corresponding divalent or trivalent cations. (44) This is also a quantitative representation of the ionization tendency. In this diagram, the base metals showing high oxophilicity (Ti, Zn, and Ga, red lines) possess low reduction potentials, whereas other base metals that exhibit oxidation tolerance (Bi, Sb, Pb, blue lines) have moderate potentials. Because standard oxidation potentials are measured in aqueous solutions, (44) the reaction phase and situation may differ largely from those for heterogeneous systems. Therefore, this representation is somewhat lacking in accuracy; however, we can apply this trend as an approximate gauge reflecting the intrinsic oxidizability of the metals.
Figure 24
Figure 24. Energy diagram of standard oxidation potentials of various metals. For each metal, the potential for oxidation to the divalent (Cu, Ni, Pb, Pd, Pt, Sn, Ti, and Zn) or trivalent (Bi, Ga, and Rh) cation was adopted. For antimony, the potential refers to the following reaction; SbO+ + 2H+ + 3e– = Sb(s) + H2O(l).
In addition to the oxidation tolerance, we should consider whether the surface of as prepared intermetallic compounds retains the bulk-terminated structure. In general, for solid-solution alloys (309, 310) and Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds, (311) the composition ratio of the two metals often differs between surface and subsurface regions due to segregation. However, this is not always the case with intermetallic compounds. For example, an extensive surface characterization of annealed Pt3Ti(111) and (100) single crystal surfaces using AES, XPS, and LEED revealed that these surfaces have ordered structures expected from truncation of the bulk crystal. (312, 313) A more clear evidence of bulk-truncated termination can be observed in the STM images of PdGa(111) surfaces as already shown in Figure 15. Note that these results suggest that no adsorbate-induced surface reconstruction occurs, which is often observed for monometallic or alloy surfaces. The surface stability of the powdered PdGa catalyst was also investigated by FT-IR with CO adsorption and in situ XPS and prompt gamma activation analysis (PGAA) analyses during acetylene semihydrogenation. (314) No segregation of Pd and dissolution of C and/or H atoms into the bulk was observed, demonstrating the surface stability of PdGa. Probably, the robustness of the intermetallic compounds relies on the thermodynamic stability. Table 2 summarizes the formation enthalpies (ΔHf) of various intermetallic compounds covered in this review. (315-332) Pt3Ti (−94 kJ mol–1) and PdGa (−79 kJ mol–1) showed highly negative ΔHf values, indicating that deviation from the ordered structure is thermodynamically unfavorable, and therefore, the ordered structure is thermodynamically stable. Other intermetallic compounds showed moderately to significantly negative ΔHf values (typically −30 ∼ −100 kJ mol–1), suggesting high stability. Conversely, Kurnakov-type intermetallic compounds (−10.0 ∼ −16.0 kJ mol–1) and solid-solution alloys (typically ∼0 kJ mol–1) have much less negative ΔHf values. The deviation in ΔHf between PtCo and Pt0.5Co0.5 corresponds to the heat of ordering (ΔH0) as mentioned in section 4.4. Thus, the structural stability of the intermetallic compounds and solid-solution alloys can be understood in terms of formation enthalpy. However, for a few layer thick surface alloys, surface reconstruction somewhat occurs even though the bulk intermetallic compound is highly stables. Figure 25 shows the standard row structure of 4-layer thick PdZn surface alloy on Pd(111) and the reconstructed zigzag structure. (333) According to TPD, polarization-modulation infrared reflection-absorption spectroscopy (PM-IRAS), and DFT studies, Weilach et al. proposed that CO adsorption induced surface reconstruction to the zigzag structure. The DFT calculation suggested that (1) the zigzag structure with CO adsorbed is energetically favored to the row structure and that (2) the former favors on-top CO adsorption, while the latter favors bridge adsorption. The PM-IRAS study showed the absence of the stable bridge adsorption, supporting the zigzag structure. Although the bulk PdZn or thicker layer was not considered in this study, the obtained result indicates the possibility of adsorbate-induced surface reconstruction for small intermetallic nanoparticles. Therefore, careful discussion based on spectroscopic and theoretical approaches is necessary to develop an atomic-level understanding of the catalysis of supported intermetallic compounds.
Figure 25
Figure 25. PdZn surface alloy on Pd(111) with bulk terminated row structure and reconstructed zigzag structure. Pd atoms are displayed in cyan, and Zn atoms are displayed in blue. Reprinted with permission from ref 333. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
Table 2. Formation Enthalpy of Various Intermetallic Compounds and Solid-Solution Alloys
MmNn ΔHf (kJ mol–1) ref MmNn ΔHf (kJ mol–1) ref
Pd-based Pt-based
PdGa –79.4 325 Pt3Zr –112.9 316
PdZn –73.9 317 Pt3Ti –94.0 322
Pd3Ti –65.0 326 PtSn –74.0 324
PdIn –61.4 327 PtZn –65.0 317
PdSn –61.1 330 PtGa –55.6 328
PdBi –57.5 332 Pt3Sn –55.3 324
Pd3Pb –35.6 323 PtSb –47.1 328
Pd13Pb9 –32.9 323 Pt3In –41.5 327
Rh-based Kurnakov-type
RhGa –73.2 328 PtCu –16.0 329
RhTi –71.5 326 Pt3Fe –15.9 316
RhSb –32.2 328 PtCo –14.0 320
RhIn –28.0 327 PtCu3 –11.0 329
      Pt3Co –10.0 320
Ni-based      
NiGa –46.5 328 solid-solution
NiSi –42.4 331 Pt0.5Co0.5 –9.8 320
Ni5Ga3 –37.8 328 Pt0.5Pd0.5 –3.8 315
Ni3Sn2 –31.8 319 Pd0.5Ni0.5 –0.5 321
Ni3Sn –26.3 319 Pd0.5Co0.5 0 320
Ni3Ga –25.3 328 Ni0.5Co0.5 0 320
5.2 Contribution of Individual Crystal Planes
With the development of structure-dependent catalysis on specific surfaces of intermetallic compounds, one should consider the contribution of the individual crystal planes that are actually exposed on the overall catalytic performance. For example, for alkene isomerization over RhSb/SiO2, a DFT-based Wulff construction suggested that the (211), (020), and (013) planes dominate the surface. (123) However, the major (211) plane has a low surface energy, thereby displaying highly positive adsorption energies for alkene. This unfavorable adsorption probably minimizes its contribution to the overall catalytic reaction rate. Therefore, the overall reaction rate and selectivity should depend on the properties of the (020) and (013) planes. However, it is desirable to provide experimental supports for such a discussion, which in most cases can be obtained using well-defined single crystals with surface science techniques. As an alternative approach, the use of shape-controlled nanoparticles may be available. Shape-controlled nanoparticles have specific surface truncations; for example, the surface of Pt nanoparticles with a cubic or tetrahedral structure is terminated exclusively by (100) and (111) facets, respectively. (334) Such nanoparticles have been used as well-defined single crystal surfaces to overcome a “material gap”. (334) Although shape-controlled synthesis of monometallic nanoparticles has been established, (335) that of intermetallic nanoparticles is highly challenging and in an early phase of development. (247) The difficulty lies in the simultaneous reduction of two metal precursors of which reduction potentials and rates are very different. Successive alloying of monometallic nanoparticles to intermetallic analogues with the polyol synthesis method (43) is also applicable to this goal. This method allows low-temperature synthesis of intermetallic nanoparticles without any sintering or aggregation. Using shape-controlled monometallic nanoparticles as the starting materials for the polyol synthesis might be a possible approach to the synthesis of shape-controlled intermetallic nanoparticles.
5.3 Challenge to Enantioselective Conversions
The steric effects imposed by the specific structure of intermetallic compounds allows stereoselective and chemoselective conversions as shown in section 4.3. Applying such types of specific surface structures will enable the development of similarly sophisticated catalysis, such as regioselective conversions. How about enantioselective conversions? To develop a catalytically active site allowing enantioselective conversion, one must construct reaction environments capable of chiral recognition at an atomic level as observed for metal complexes. To this day, a number of heterogeneous catalysts for enantioselective conversion have been reported. However, they employed certain organic molecules such as cinchona alkaloids (336, 337) or β-ketoesters (336) as chiral sources. In this context, it is a long-standing goal to achieve enantioselective conversion using an all-inorganic chiral catalyst. Although some inorganic materials such as quartz, (338) ITQ-37 zeolite, (338) and chiral metal–organic frameworks (339) have been known to possess chirality, their chiral units are on the order of several nanometers, which is too large to recognize the chirality of small molecules. Recently, Gellman et al. reported enantioselective autocatalytic decomposition of tartaric acids over chiral Cu(643)R(S) and analogous surfaces. (340) In this case, insufficient chiral recognition at the kink sites of the monometallic chiral surface (Figure 26) was amplified by autocatalysis to achieve high enantioselectivity. To provide a sufficient chiral recognition capability by inorganic materials, a far more specific and ordered reaction environment is needed. One promising candidate is an intermetallic compound belonging to a chiral space group, such as PdGa, PtGa, and RhSn (P213 space group). Their surfaces (e.g., PdGa(111)) display enantiomorphic atomic arrangements of catalytically active metals, as shown in Figure 15. PdGa has two types of enantiomeric crystal forms named PdGa:A and PdGa:B. The complementary enantiomer of the PdGa:A(111) surface is the PdGa:B(1̅1̅1̅) surface. (341) The chiral arrangement of each surface is designated by the cyan and red triangles, which indicate the 3-fold Pd and Ga sites in the subsurface, respectively. Very recently, Widmer et al. reported highly enantioselective adsorption of a prochiral molecule, 9-ethynylphenanthrene (9-EP), on these all-inorganic chiral surfaces. (341) The adsorption of 9-EP on the PdGa:A(111) and B(1̅1̅1̅) surface at room temperature forms chiral (R) and (S) adsorption complexes. For adsorption on PdGa:A(111), the (R) surface enantiomer dominates the adsorption configuration. Conversely, the excess of the (S) configuration is observed for PdGa:B(1̅1̅1̅). The statistical analysis for R and S configuration revealed an enantiomeric excess of 94% and 98% on PdGa:A(111) and PdGa:B(1̅1̅1̅), respectively. (341) Thus, the chiral intermetallic surface is indeed capable of chiral recognition. Although achieving enantioselective catalytic conversion such as hydrogenation remains a highly challenging task, it may be achieved in the near future.
Figure 26
Figure 26. Enantiomorphic structures of the chiral Cu(643)R&S surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 340. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society.
6 Concluding Remarks
In this review, we have summarized the fundamental concepts related to intermetallic compounds for catalyst design and their applicability to a variety of chemical conversions, including hydrogenation, oxidation, reforming, and electrocatalysis. The intermetallic catalysts typically exhibit catalytic performances superior to those of monometallic catalysts or enables highly difficult molecular transformations that cannot be achieved by conventional metal catalysts. By surveying the catalytic performances and the key roles of the active intermetallic phases, we can identify several effects, such as electronic, geometric, steric, and ordering effects, as the fundamental functions that govern catalysis. In particular, steric and ordering effects are observed only for intermetallic compounds and not for disordered alloys, because these effects rely on the orderedness and specific structures of the intermetallic phases. In terms of electronic effects, we showed that electronic structures such as the d band center or electron density can be controlled broadly by changing the second metal. An appropriate choice of the bimetallic combination and composition enables good control of the catalytic activity and selectivity. However, the stability of surface structures should also be considered, particularly for combinations containing a highly oxidizable metal. Based on the aforementioned overview, we summarize the advantages of intermetallic compounds for inorganic catalyst materials as follows:
Control of the electronic structure
Specific and ordered structure at an atomic level
Homogeneity of the geometric and electronic structures
These factors are necessary to produce a well-designed reaction environment. Appropriate combination of these factors However, we note that conventional inorganic materials for heterogeneous catalytic systems poorly satisfy these requirements. Moreover, the ordered structures of intermetallic compounds are suitable to construct theoretical model structures for computational approaches. Thus, intermetallic compounds are promising inorganic catalyst materials for developing well-structured catalysts and they entail various novel concepts in relation to fundamental catalytic chemistry. Further investigations to obtain more efficient catalysts and deeper understanding will establish new strategies for designing bimetallic catalysts and begin the next stage of catalytic chemistry.
Author Information
Corresponding Authors
Shinya Furukawa - Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology 2-12-1-E1-10, Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 152-8550;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-2621-6139;  Email: furukawa.s.af@m.titech.ac.jp
Takayuki Komatsu - Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology 2-12-1-E1-10, Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 152-8550;  Email: komatsu.t.ad@m.titech.ac.jp
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
References
This article references 341 other publications.
1Yu, W. T.; Porosoff, M. D.; Chen, J. G. G. Chem. Rev. 2012, 112, 5780– 5817 DOI: 10.1021/cr300096b
Google Scholar
2Sankar, M.; Dimitratos, N.; Miedziak, P. J.; Wells, P. P.; Kiely, C. J.; Hutchings, G. J. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 8099– 8139 DOI: 10.1039/c2cs35296f
Google Scholar
3Alonso, D. M.; Wettstein, S. G.; Dumesic, J. A. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 8075– 8098 DOI: 10.1039/c2cs35188a
Google Scholar
4Gao, F.; Goodman, D. W. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 8009– 8020 DOI: 10.1039/c2cs35160a
Google Scholar
5Li, D. L.; Wang, L.; Koike, M.; Tomishige, K. J. Jpn. Pet. Inst. 2013, 56, 253– 266 DOI: 10.1627/jpi.56.253
Google Scholar
6Zhang, Q.; Lee, I.; Joo, J. B.; Zaera, F.; Yin, Y. D. Acc. Chem. Res. 2013, 46, 1816– 1824 DOI: 10.1021/ar300230s
Google Scholar
7Wang, X. H.; He, B. B.; Hu, Z. Y.; Zeng, Z. G.; Han, S. Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater. 2014, 15, 043502 DOI: 10.1088/1468-6996/15/4/043502
Google Scholar
8Westbrook, J. H.; Fleischer, R. L. Magnetic, Electrical and Optical Properties and Applications of Intermetallic Compounds; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, 2000.
Google Scholar
9Schwab, G. M. Discuss. Faraday Soc. 1950, 8, 166– 171 DOI: 10.1039/df9500800166
Google Scholar
10Dowden, D. A.; Reynolds, P. W. Discuss. Faraday Soc. 1950, 8, 184– 211 DOI: 10.1039/df9500800184
Google Scholar
11Best, R. J.; Russell, W. W. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1954, 76, 838– 842 DOI: 10.1021/ja01632a060
Google Scholar
12Robertson, S. D.; Mcnicol, B. D.; Debaas, J. H.; Kloet, S. C.; Jenkins, J. W. J. Catal. 1975, 37, 424– 431 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(75)90179-7
Google Scholar
13Unmuth, E. E.; Schwartz, L. H.; Butt, J. B. J. Catal. 1980, 61, 242– 255 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(80)90360-7
Google Scholar
14Cava, R. J.; Takagi, H.; Batlogg, B.; Zandbergen, H. W.; Krajewski, J. J.; Peck, W. F.; Vandover, R. B.; Felder, R. J.; Siegrist, T.; Mizuhashi, K.; Lee, J. O.; Eisaki, H.; Carter, S. A.; Uchida, S. Nature 1994, 367, 146– 148 DOI: 10.1038/367146a0
Google Scholar
15He, T.; Huang, Q.; Ramirez, A. P.; Wang, Y.; Regan, K. A.; Rogado, N.; Hayward, M. A.; Haas, M. K.; Slusky, J. S.; Inumara, K.; Zandbergen, H. W.; Ong, N. P.; Cava, R. J. Nature 2001, 411, 54– 56 DOI: 10.1038/35075014
Google Scholar
16Cortie, M. B.; Kealley, C. S.; Bhatia, V.; Thorogood, G. J.; Elcombe, M. M.; Avdeev, M. J. Alloys Compd. 2011, 509, 3502– 3508 DOI: 10.1016/j.jallcom.2010.12.068
Google Scholar
17Kirchheim, R.; Mutschele, T.; Kieninger, W.; Gleiter, H.; Birringer, R.; Koble, T. D. Mater. Sci. Eng. 1988, 99, 457– 462 DOI: 10.1016/0025-5416(88)90377-1
Google Scholar
18Kamakoti, P.; Sholl, D. S. J. Membr. Sci. 2003, 225, 145– 154 DOI: 10.1016/j.memsci.2003.07.008
Google Scholar
19Penner, S.; Armbrüster, M. ChemCatChem 2015, 7, 374– 392 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201402635
Google Scholar
20Krajci, M.; Hafner, J. ChemCatChem 2016, 8, 34– 48 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201500733
Google Scholar
21Armbrüster, M.; Schlogl, R.; Grin, Y. Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater. 2014, 15, 034803 DOI: 10.1088/1468-6996/15/3/034803
Google Scholar
22Armbrüster, M.; Behrens, M.; Fottinger, K.; Friedrich, M.; Gaudry, E.; Matam, S. K.; Sharma, H. R. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 2013, 55, 289– 367 DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2013.796192
Google Scholar
23Komatsu, T.; Furukawa, S. Mater. Trans. 2015, 56, 460– 467 DOI: 10.2320/matertrans.MF201408
Google Scholar
24Furukawa, S.; Ozawa, K.; Komatsu, T. RSC Adv. 2013, 3, 23269– 23277 DOI: 10.1039/c3ra43163k
Google Scholar
25Furukawa, S.; Endo, M.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 3533– 3542 DOI: 10.1021/cs500920p
Google Scholar
26Kameoka, S.; Kimura, T.; Tsai, A. P. Catal. Lett. 2009, 131, 219– 224 DOI: 10.1007/s10562-009-0045-5
Google Scholar
27Furukawa, S.; Suga, A.; Komatsu, T. Chem. Commun. 2014, 50, 3277– 3280 DOI: 10.1039/c4cc00024b
Google Scholar
28Furukawa, S.; Ehara, K.; Komatsu, T. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2016, 6, 1642– 1650 DOI: 10.1039/C5CY01652E
Google Scholar
29Cable, R. E.; Schaak, R. E. Chem. Mater. 2007, 19, 4098– 4104 DOI: 10.1021/cm071214j
Google Scholar
30Komatsu, T.; Takasaki, M.; Ozawa, K.; Furukawa, S.; Muramatsu, A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 10483– 10491 DOI: 10.1021/jp4007729
Google Scholar
31Armbrüster, M.; Kovnir, K.; Behrens, M.; Teschner, D.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 14745– 14747 DOI: 10.1021/ja106568t
Google Scholar
32Armbrüster, M.; Wowsnick, G.; Friedrich, M.; Heggen, M.; Cardoso-Gil, R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 9112– 9118 DOI: 10.1021/ja202869d
Google Scholar
33Ramesh, G. V.; Kodiyath, R.; Tanabe, T.; Manikandan, M.; Fujita, T.; Umezawa, N.; Ueda, S.; Ishihara, S.; Ariga, K.; Abe, H. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2014, 6, 16124– 16130 DOI: 10.1021/am504147q
Google Scholar
34Abe, H.; Matsumoto, F.; Alden, L. R.; Warren, S. C.; Abruna, H. D.; DiSalvo, F. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5452– 5458 DOI: 10.1021/ja075061c
Google Scholar
35Onda, A.; Komatsu, T.; Yashima, T. J. Catal. 2001, 201, 13– 21 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.2001.3231
Google Scholar
36Komatsu, T.; Inaba, K.; Uezono, T.; Onda, A.; Yashima, T. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 251, 315– 326 DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00380-6
Google Scholar
37Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Fukui, Y.; Komatsu, T.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A. J. Catal. 2008, 260, 150– 156 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.09.024
Google Scholar
38Komatsu, T.; Tamura, A. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 306– 314 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.06.030
Google Scholar
39Chen, X.; Li, M.; Guan, J. C.; Wang, X. K.; Williams, C. T.; Liang, C. H. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2012, 51, 3604– 3611 DOI: 10.1021/ie202227j
Google Scholar
40Dong, H.; Chen, Y. C.; Feldmann, C. Green Chem. 2015, 17, 4107– 4132 DOI: 10.1039/C5GC00943J
Google Scholar
41Sra, A. K.; Ewers, T. D.; Schaak, R. E. Chem. Mater. 2005, 17, 758– 766 DOI: 10.1021/cm0484450
Google Scholar
42Cable, R. E.; Schaak, R. E. Chem. Mater. 2005, 17, 6835– 6841 DOI: 10.1021/cm0520113
Google Scholar
43Bauer, J. C.; Chen, X.; Liu, Q. S.; Phan, T. H.; Schaak, R. E. J. Mater. Chem. 2008, 18, 275– 282 DOI: 10.1039/B712035D
Google Scholar
44Bard, A. J.; Parsons, R.; Jordan, J. Standard Potentials in Aqueous Solution; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, 1985; Vol. 6.
Google Scholar
45Komatsu, T.; Sato, D.; Onda, A. Catalysts & Catalysis 2003, 45, 465– 467
Google Scholar
46Rocha, T. A.; Colmati, F.; Ciapina, E. G.; Linares, J. J.; Gonzalez, E. R. ECS Trans. 2015, 69, 57– 66 DOI: 10.1149/06917.0057ecst
Google Scholar
47Ramesh, G. V.; Kodiyath, R.; Tanabe, T.; Manikandan, M.; Fujita, T.; Matsumoto, F.; Ishihara, S.; Ueda, S.; Yamashita, Y.; Ariga, K.; Abe, H. ChemElectroChem 2014, 1, 728– 732 DOI: 10.1002/celc.201300240
Google Scholar
48Furukawa, S.; Nishimura, G.; Komatsu, T. J. Jpn. Pet. Inst. 2016, 59, 160– 163 DOI: 10.1627/jpi.59.160
Google Scholar
49Augustine, R. L. Heterogeneous Catalysis for the Synthetic Chemist; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, 1995.
Google Scholar
50Jenck, J.; Germain, J. E. J. Catal. 1980, 65, 133– 140 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(80)90286-9
Google Scholar
51Bauer, K.; Garbe, D.; Surburg, H. Common Fragrance and Flavor Materials: Preparation, Properties and Uses; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, 2008.
Google Scholar
52Gallezot, P.; Richard, D. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 1998, 40, 81– 126 DOI: 10.1080/01614949808007106
Google Scholar
53Fujita, S. I.; Sano, Y.; Bhanage, B. M.; Arai, M. J. Catal. 2004, 225, 95– 104 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2004.03.037
Google Scholar
54Ghosh, A.; Kumar, R. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2005, 87, 33– 44 DOI: 10.1016/j.micromeso.2005.06.042
Google Scholar
55Poltarzewski, Z.; Galvagno, S.; Pietropaolo, R.; Staiti, P. J. Catal. 1986, 102, 190– 198 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(86)90153-3
Google Scholar
56Marinelli, T. B. L. W.; Ponec, V. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 51– 59 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1995.1230
Google Scholar
57Coloma, F.; Llorca, J.; Homs, N.; de la Piscina, P. R.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 3063– 3069 DOI: 10.1039/b002005m
Google Scholar
58Stassi, J. P.; Zgolicz, P. D.; de Miguel, S. R.; Scelza, O. A. J. Catal. 2013, 306, 11– 29 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2013.05.029
Google Scholar
59Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. J. Catal. 2003, 220, 115– 126 DOI: 10.1016/S0021-9517(03)00249-5
Google Scholar
60Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Jugnet, Y.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 3701– 3718 DOI: 10.1021/jp075163p
Google Scholar
61Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 13947– 13967 DOI: 10.1021/jp903473m
Google Scholar
62Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Jugnet, Y.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 1073– 1084 DOI: 10.1021/jp908353p
Google Scholar
63Shi, J. J.; Zhang, M. Y.; Du, W. C.; Ning, W. S.; Hou, Z. Y. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 3108– 3112 DOI: 10.1039/C5CY00393H
Google Scholar
64Rodiansono; Khairi, S.; Hara, T.; Ichikuni, N.; Shimazu, S. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2012, 2, 2139– 2145 DOI: 10.1039/c2cy20216f
Google Scholar
65Li, C. M.; Chen, Y. D.; Zhang, S. T.; Xu, S. M.; Zhou, J. Y.; Wang, F.; Wei, M.; Evans, D. G.; Duan, X. Chem. Mater. 2013, 25, 3888– 3896 DOI: 10.1021/cm4021832
Google Scholar
66Galloway, E.; Armbrüster, M.; Kovnir, K.; Tikhov, M. S.; Lambert, R. M. J. Catal. 2009, 261, 60– 65 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.11.003
Google Scholar
67Gieck, C.; Schreyer, M.; Fassler, T. E.; Cavet, S.; Claus, P. Chem. - Eur. J. 2006, 12, 1924– 1930 DOI: 10.1002/chem.200500411
Google Scholar
68Hlukhyy, V.; Raif, F.; Claus, P.; Fassler, T. F. Chem. - Eur. J. 2008, 14, 3737– 3744 DOI: 10.1002/chem.200701547
Google Scholar
69Mitchell, S. C.; Waring, R. H. Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry; Wiley-VCH Verlag: Weinheim, Germany, 2000.
Google Scholar
70Corma, A.; Serna, P. Science 2006, 313, 332– 334 DOI: 10.1126/science.1128383
Google Scholar
71Mohapatra, S. K.; Sonavane, S. U.; Jayaram, R. V.; Selvam, P. Org. Lett. 2002, 4, 4297– 4300 DOI: 10.1021/ol026936p
Google Scholar
72Kumar, K. A.; Shruthi, K. S.; Naik, N.; Gowda, D. C. E-J. Chem. 2008, 5, 914– 917 DOI: 10.1155/2008/374184
Google Scholar
73Shimizu, K.; Miyamoto, Y.; Kawasaki, T.; Tanji, T.; Tai, Y.; Satsuma, A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 17803– 17810 DOI: 10.1021/jp906044t
Google Scholar
74Liu, L. Q.; Qiao, B. T.; Chen, Z. J.; Zhang, J.; Deng, Y. Q. Chem. Commun. 2009, 653– 655 DOI: 10.1039/B816547E
Google Scholar
75Shimizu, K.; Miyamoto, Y.; Satsuma, A. J. Catal. 2010, 270, 86– 94 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.009
Google Scholar
76Mitsudome, T.; Mikami, Y.; Matoba, M.; Mizugaki, T.; Jitsukawa, K.; Kaneda, K. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 136– 139 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201106244
Google Scholar
77Sarmah, P. P.; Dutta, D. K. Green Chem. 2012, 14, 1086– 1093 DOI: 10.1039/c2gc16441h
Google Scholar
78Wei, H. S.; Liu, X. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Zhang, L. L.; Qiao, B. T.; Yang, X. F.; Huang, Y. Q.; Miao, S.; Liu, J. Y.; Zhang, T. Nat. Commun. 2014, 5, 5634 DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6634
Google Scholar
79Furukawa, S.; Yoshida, Y.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1441– 1450 DOI: 10.1021/cs500082g
Google Scholar
80Li, Y.; Zhou, Y. X.; Ma, X.; Jiang, H. L. Chem. Commun. 2016, 52, 4199– 4202 DOI: 10.1039/C6CC00011H
Google Scholar
81Furukawa, S.; Takahashi, K.; Komatsu, T. Chem. Sci. 2016, 7, 4476– 4484 DOI: 10.1039/C6SC00817H
Google Scholar
82Rylander, P. N. Catalytic Hydrogenation in Organic Synthesis; Academic Press: New York, 1979.
Google Scholar
83Corma, A.; Serna, P.; Concepcion, P.; Calvino, J. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 8748– 8753 DOI: 10.1021/ja800959g
Google Scholar
84Cai, S. F.; Duan, H. H.; Rong, H. P.; Wang, D. S.; Li, L. S.; He, W.; Li, Y. D. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 608– 612 DOI: 10.1021/cs300689w
Google Scholar
85Vile, G.; Almora-Barrios, N.; Lopez, N.; Perez-Ramirez, J. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 3767– 3778 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00885
Google Scholar
86Iihama, S.; Furukawa, S.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 742– 746 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b02464
Google Scholar
87Tike, M. A.; Mahajani, V. V. Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 123, 31– 41 DOI: 10.1016/j.cej.2006.07.014
Google Scholar
88Cristina, M.; Oliveira, F. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 329, 7– 15 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2007.06.011
Google Scholar
89Borodziński, A.; Bond, G. C. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 2006, 48, 91– 144 DOI: 10.1080/01614940500364909
Google Scholar
90Heller, D.; De Vries, A. H.; De Vries, J. G.; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, Germany, 2007; Vol. 3, pp 1483– 1516.
Google Scholar
91Molnar, A.; Sarkany, A.; Varga, M. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2001, 173, 185– 221 DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(01)00150-9
Google Scholar
92Johnson, M. M.; Cheung, T. P.; U.S. Patent 5,585,318, 1996.
Google Scholar
93Johnson, M. M.; Walker, D. W.; Nowack, G. P.; U.S. Patent 4404124, 1983.
Google Scholar
94Zhang, S.; Chen, C. Y.; Jang, B. W. L.; Zhu, A. M. Catal. Today 2015, 256, 161– 169 DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2015.04.002
Google Scholar
95Osswald, J.; Giedigkeit, R.; Jentoft, R. E.; Armbrüster, M.; Girgsdies, F.; Kovnir, K.; Ressler, T.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 210– 218 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.06.013
Google Scholar
96Osswald, J.; Kovnir, K.; Armbrüster, M.; Giedigkeit, R.; Jentoft, R. E.; Wild, U.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 219– 227 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.06.014
Google Scholar
97Shao, L. D.; Zhang, W.; Armbrüster, M.; Teschner, D.; Girgsdies, F.; Zhang, B. S.; Timpe, O.; Friedrich, M.; Schlogl, R.; Su, D. S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 10231– 10235 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201008013
Google Scholar
98Zhou, H. R.; Yang, X. F.; Li, L.; Liu, X. Y.; Huang, Y. Q.; Pan, X. L.; Wang, A. Q.; Li, J.; Zhang, T. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 1054– 1061 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01933
Google Scholar
99Onda, A.; Komatsu, T.; Yashima, T. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 2999– 3005 DOI: 10.1039/b001381l
Google Scholar
100Komatsu, T.; Kishi, T.; Gorai, T. J. Catal. 2008, 259, 174– 182 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.08.001
Google Scholar
101Studt, F.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Bligaard, T.; Sorensen, R. Z.; Christensen, C. H.; Norskov, J. K. Science 2008, 320, 1320– 1322 DOI: 10.1126/science.1156660
Google Scholar
102Liu, Y. X.; Liu, X. W.; Feng, Q. C.; He, D. S.; Zhang, L. B.; Lian, C.; Shen, R. A.; Zhao, G. F.; Ji, Y. J.; Wang, D. S.; Zhou, G.; Li, Y. D. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 4747– 4754 DOI: 10.1002/adma.201600603
Google Scholar
103Komatsu, T.; Fukui, M.; Yashima, T. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 101, 1095– 1104 DOI: 10.1016/S0167-2991(96)80321-1
Google Scholar
104Armbrüster, M.; Kovnir, K.; Friedrich, M.; Teschner, D.; Wowsnick, G.; Hahne, M.; Gille, P.; Szentmiklosi, L.; Feuerbacher, M.; Heggen, M.; Girgsdies, F.; Rosenthal, D.; Schlogl, R.; Grin, Y. Nat. Mater. 2012, 11, 690– 693 DOI: 10.1038/nmat3347
Google Scholar
105Wang, Z. In Comprehensive Organic Name Reactions and Reagents; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: Hoboken, NJ, 2010.
Google Scholar
106Furukawa, S.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 2121– 2125 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b02953
Google Scholar
107Krajci, M.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2014, 312, 232– 248 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2014.02.001
Google Scholar
108Krajci, M.; Hafner, J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 6307– 6319 DOI: 10.1021/jp212317u
Google Scholar
109Krajci, M.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2012, 295, 70– 80 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2012.07.025
Google Scholar
110Dong, W.; Kresse, G.; Hafner, J. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1997, 119, 69– 76 DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(96)00470-0
Google Scholar
111Wowsnick, G.; Teschner, D.; Armbrüster, M.; Kasatkin, I.; Girgsdies, F.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R.; Behrens, M. J. Catal. 2014, 309, 221– 230 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2013.09.018
Google Scholar
112Tew, M. W.; Emerich, H.; van Bokhoven, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 8457– 8465 DOI: 10.1021/jp1103164
Google Scholar
113Palczewska, W.; Jablonski, A.; Kaszkur, Z.; Zuba, G.; Wernisch, J. J. Mol. Catal. 1984, 25, 307– 316 DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(84)80053-X
Google Scholar
114Sales, E. A.; Benhamida, B.; Caizergues, V.; Lagier, J. P.; Fievet, F.; Bozon-Verduraz, F. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 172, 273– 283 DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(98)00124-0
Google Scholar
115Sales, E. A.; de Jesus Mendes, M.; Bozon-Verduraz, F. J. Catal. 2000, 195, 96– 105 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.2000.2966
Google Scholar
116Komatsu, T.; Hyodo, S.; Yashima, T. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 5565– 5572 DOI: 10.1021/jp971117l
Google Scholar
117Bertolini, J. C.; Massardier, J. Catal. Lett. 1991, 9, 183– 188 DOI: 10.1007/BF00773176
Google Scholar
118Komatsu, T.; Satoh, D.; Onda, A. Chem. Commun. 2001, 1080– 1081 DOI: 10.1039/b102415a
Google Scholar
119Ross, P. N. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 1992, 10, 2546– 2550 DOI: 10.1116/1.578096
Google Scholar
120Endo, N.; Kameoka, S.; Tsai, A. P.; Hirata, T.; Nishimura, C. Mater. Trans. 2011, 52, 1794– 1798 DOI: 10.2320/matertrans.MAW201105
Google Scholar
121Horiuti, J.; Polanyi, M. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1934, 30, 1164– 1172 DOI: 10.1039/tf9343001164
Google Scholar
122Furukawa, S.; Yokoyama, A.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 3581– 3585 DOI: 10.1021/cs500947d
Google Scholar
123Furukawa, S.; Ochi, K.; Luo, H.; Miyazaki, M.; Komatsu, T. ChemCatChem 2015, 7, 3472– 3479 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201500808
Google Scholar
124Birch, A. J. Pure Appl. Chem. 1996, 68, 553– 556 DOI: 10.1351/pac199668030553
Google Scholar
125Radkowski, K.; Sundararaju, B.; Furstner, A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 355– 360 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201205946
Google Scholar
126Rane, V. H.; Rajput, A. M.; Karkamkar, A. J.; Choudhary, V. R. Appl. Energy 2004, 77, 375– 382 DOI: 10.1016/S0306-2619(03)00156-9
Google Scholar
127Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 771– 778 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1994.1263
Google Scholar
128Barias, O. A.; Holmen, A.; Blekkan, E. A. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 1– 12 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0001
Google Scholar
129Sanfilippo, D.; Miracca, I. Catal. Today 2006, 111, 133– 139 DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2005.10.012
Google Scholar
130Lobera, M. P.; Tellez, C.; Herguido, J.; Menendez, M. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 349, 156– 164 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2008.07.025
Google Scholar
131Pisduangdaw, S.; Panpranot, J.; Methastidsook, C.; Chaisuk, C.; Faungnawakij, K.; Praserthdam, P.; Mekasuwandumrong, O. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 370, 1– 6 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2009.08.006
Google Scholar
132Nawaz, Z. S.; Tang, X. P.; Zhang, Q.; Wang, D. Z.; Fei, W. Catal. Commun. 2009, 10, 1925– 1930 DOI: 10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008
Google Scholar
133Furukawa, S.; Tamura, A.; Ozawa, K.; Komatsu, T. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 300– 305 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2013.10.012
Google Scholar
134Deng, L. D.; Miura, H.; Shishido, T.; Hosokawa, S.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. ChemCatChem 2014, 6, 2680– 2691 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201402306
Google Scholar
135Yang, M. L.; Zhu, Y. A.; Zhou, X. G.; Sui, Z. J.; Chen, D. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 1247– 1258 DOI: 10.1021/cs300031d
Google Scholar
136Nykanen, L.; Honkala, K. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 3026– 3030 DOI: 10.1021/cs400566y
Google Scholar
137Virnovskaia, A.; Morandi, S.; Rytter, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Olsbye, U. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 14732– 14742 DOI: 10.1021/jp074686u
Google Scholar
138Yang, M. L.; Zhu, Y. A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z. J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X. G. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 3257– 3267 DOI: 10.1039/c0cp00341g
Google Scholar
139Deng, L.; Shishido, T.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. Catal. Today 2014, 232, 33– 39 DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2013.10.064
Google Scholar
140Lawrence, S. A. Amines: synthesis, properties and applications; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, 2004; p 1.
Google Scholar
141Shimizu, K. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 1412– 1427 DOI: 10.1039/C4CY01170H
Google Scholar
142He, L.; Lou, X. B.; Ni, J.; Liu, Y. M.; Cao, Y.; He, H. Y.; Fan, K. N. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010, 16, 13965– 13969 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201001848
Google Scholar
143Shimizu, K.; Nishimura, M.; Satsuma, A. ChemCatChem 2009, 1, 497– 503 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.200900209
Google Scholar
144Likhar, P. R.; Arundhathi, R.; Kantam, M. L.; Prathima, P. S. Eur. J. Org. Chem. 2009, 2009 (31) 5383– 5389 DOI: 10.1002/ejoc.200900628
Google Scholar
145He, W.; Wang, L. D.; Sun, C. L.; Wu, K. K.; He, S. B.; Chen, J. P.; Wu, P.; Yu, Z. K. Chem. - Eur. J. 2011, 17, 13308– 13317 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201101725
Google Scholar
146Corma, A.; Rodenas, T.; Sabater, M. J. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010, 16, 254– 260 DOI: 10.1002/chem.200901501
Google Scholar
147Shimizu, K.; Imaiida, N.; Kon, K.; Siddiki, S. M. A. H.; Satsuma, A. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 998– 1005 DOI: 10.1021/cs4001267
Google Scholar
148Peeters, A.; Claes, L.; Geukens, I.; Stassen, I.; De Vos, D. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 191– 197 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2013.09.051
Google Scholar
149Furukawa, S.; Suzuki, R.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 5946– 5953 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.6b01677
Google Scholar
150Gunanathan, C.; Milstein, D. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 8661– 8664 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200803229
Google Scholar
151Imm, S.; Bahn, S.; Neubert, L.; Neumann, H.; Beller, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2010, 49, 8126– 8129 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201002576
Google Scholar
152Pingen, D.; Muller, C.; Vogt, D. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2010, 49, 8130– 8133 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201002583
Google Scholar
153Patil, R. D.; Adimurthy, S. Asian J. Org. Chem. 2013, 2, 726– 744 DOI: 10.1002/ajoc.201300012
Google Scholar
154Takanashi, T.; Nakagawa, Y.; Tomishige, K. Chem. Lett. 2014, 43, 822– 824 DOI: 10.1246/cl.140051
Google Scholar
155Takanashi, T.; Tamura, M.; Nakagawa, Y.; Tomishige, K. RSC Adv. 2014, 4, 28664– 28672 DOI: 10.1039/c4ra03984j
Google Scholar
156Huber, G. W.; Iborra, S.; Corma, A. Chem. Rev. 2006, 106, 4044– 4098 DOI: 10.1021/cr068360d
Google Scholar
157Echigo, M.; Tabata, T. J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 2004, 37, 75– 81 DOI: 10.1252/jcej.37.75
Google Scholar
158Baglin, E. G.; Atkinson, G. B.; Nicks, L. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1981, 20, 87– 90 DOI: 10.1021/i300001a008
Google Scholar
159Ferreira, A. C.; Goncalves, A. P.; Gasche, T. A.; Ferraria, A. M.; do Rego, A. M. B.; Correia, M. R.; Bola, A. M.; Branco, J. B. J. Alloys Compd. 2010, 497, 249– 258 DOI: 10.1016/j.jallcom.2010.03.021
Google Scholar
160Imamura, H.; Wallace, W. E. J. Phys. Chem. 1979, 83, 2009– 2012 DOI: 10.1021/j100478a016
Google Scholar
161Imamura, H.; Wallace, W. E. J. Phys. Chem. 1979, 83, 3261– 3264 DOI: 10.1021/j100488a016
Google Scholar
162Sasikala, R.; Gupta, N. M.; Kulshreshtha, S. K.; Iyer, R. M. J. Catal. 1987, 107, 510– 521 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(87)90315-0
Google Scholar
163Chen, X.; Jin, J. H.; Sha, G. Y.; Li, C.; Zhang, B. S.; Su, D. S.; Williams, C. T.; Liang, C. H. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2014, 4, 53– 61 DOI: 10.1039/C3CY00743J
Google Scholar
164Kustov, A. L.; Frey, A. M.; Larsen, K. E.; Johannessen, T.; Norskov, J. K.; Christensen, C. H. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 320, 98– 104 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2006.12.017
Google Scholar
165Studt, F.; Sharafutdinov, I.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Elkjaer, C. F.; Hummelshoj, J. S.; Dahl, S.; Chorkendorff, I.; Norskov, J. K. Nat. Chem. 2014, 6, 320– 324 DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1873
Google Scholar
166Ota, A.; Kunkes, E. L.; Kasatkin, I.; Groppo, E.; Ferri, D.; Poceiro, B.; Yerga, R. M. N.; Behrens, M. J. Catal. 2012, 293, 27– 38 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2012.05.020
Google Scholar
167Schulz, H. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 186, 3– 12 DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(99)00160-X
Google Scholar
168Komatsu, T.; Fukui, Y. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 279, 173– 180 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.028
Google Scholar
169Komatsu, T.; Uezono, T. J. Jpn. Pet. Inst. 2005, 48, 76– 83 DOI: 10.1627/jpi.48.76
Google Scholar
170Endo, N.; Ito, S.; Tomishige, K.; Kameoka, S.; Tsai, A. P.; Hirata, T.; Nishimura, C. Catal. Today 2011, 164, 293– 296 DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2010.11.039
Google Scholar
171Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 3037– 3058 DOI: 10.1021/cr0200116
Google Scholar
172Murahashi, S. I. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1995, 34, 2443– 2465 DOI: 10.1002/anie.199524431
Google Scholar
173Skarchenko, V. K. Russ. Chem. Rev. 1977, 46, 731– 748 DOI: 10.1070/RC1977v046n08ABEH002169
Google Scholar
174Karski, S.; Witonska, I. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2003, 191, 87– 92 DOI: 10.1016/S1381-1169(02)00359-X
Google Scholar
175Hayashi, H.; Sugiyama, S.; Katayama, Y.; Kawashiro, K.; Shigemoto, N. J. Mol. Catal. 1994, 91, 129– 137 DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(94)00026-3
Google Scholar
176Hayashi, H.; Sugiyama, S.; Shigemoto, N.; Miyaura, K.; Tsujino, S.; Kawashiro, K.; Uemura, S. Catal. Lett. 1993, 19, 369– 373 DOI: 10.1007/BF00767080
Google Scholar
177Furuya, N.; Motoo, S. J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem. 1979, 98, 189– 194 DOI: 10.1016/S0022-0728(79)80258-2
Google Scholar
178Ocon, P.; Beden, B.; Lamy, C. Electrochim. Acta 1987, 32, 1095– 1101 DOI: 10.1016/0013-4686(87)90038-7
Google Scholar
179Mallat, T.; Bodnar, Z.; Baiker, A.; Greis, O.; Strubig, H.; Reller, A. J. Catal. 1993, 142, 237– 253 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1993.1204
Google Scholar
180Tsujino, T.; Ohigashi, S.; Sugiyama, S.; Kawashiro, K.; Hayashi, H. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 71, 25– 35 DOI: 10.1016/0304-5102(92)80005-2
Google Scholar
181Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. Catal. Today 1994, 19, 247– 283 DOI: 10.1016/0920-5861(94)80187-8
Google Scholar
182Fiege, H.; Wedemeyer, K. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1981, 20, 783– 784 DOI: 10.1002/anie.198107831
Google Scholar
183Mallat, T.; Baiker, A.; Patscheider, J. Appl. Catal., A 1991, 79, 59– 75 DOI: 10.1016/0926-860X(91)85006-J
Google Scholar
184Herrero, E.; Fernandezvega, A.; Feliu, J. M.; Aldaz, A. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1993, 350, 73– 88 DOI: 10.1016/0022-0728(93)80197-P
Google Scholar
185Smits, P. C. C.; Kuster, B. F. M.; Vanderwiele, K.; Vanderbaan, H. S. Appl. Catal. 1987, 33, 83– 96 DOI: 10.1016/S0166-9834(00)80585-0
Google Scholar
186Parsons, R.; Vandernoot, T. J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem. 1988, 257, 9– 45 DOI: 10.1016/0022-0728(88)87028-1
Google Scholar
187Mondelli, C.; Ferri, D.; Grunwaldt, J. D.; Krumeich, F.; Mangold, S.; Psaro, R.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 2007, 252, 77– 87 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2007.09.013
Google Scholar
188Mondelli, C.; Grunwaldt, J. D.; Ferri, D.; Baiker, A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2010, 12, 5307– 5316 DOI: 10.1039/b926833b
Google Scholar
189Sharma, A. S.; Kaur, H.; Shah, D. RSC Adv. 2016, 6, 28688– 28727 DOI: 10.1039/C5RA25646A
Google Scholar
190Villa, A.; Janjic, N.; Spontoni, P.; Wang, D.; Su, D. S.; Prati, L. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 364, 221– 228 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2009.05.059
Google Scholar
191Dimitratos, N.; Hammond, C.; Kiely, C. J.; Hutchings, G. J. Appl. Petrochem. Res. 2014, 4, 85– 94 DOI: 10.1007/s13203-014-0059-9
Google Scholar
192Mori, K.; Yamaguchi, K.; Mizugaki, T.; Ebitani, K.; Kaneda, K. Chem. Commun. 2001, 461– 462 DOI: 10.1039/b009944i
Google Scholar
193Yamaguchi, K.; Mizuno, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 1480– 1483 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200250779
Google Scholar
194So, M. H.; Liu, Y. G.; Ho, C. M.; Che, C. M. Chem. - Asian J. 2009, 4, 1551– 1561 DOI: 10.1002/asia.200900261
Google Scholar
195Grirrane, A.; Corma, A.; Garcia, H. J. Catal. 2009, 264, 138– 144 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2009.03.015
Google Scholar
196Aschwanden, L.; Mallat, T.; Krumeich, F.; Baiker, A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2009, 309, 57– 62 DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2009.04.015
Google Scholar
197Aschwanden, L.; Mallat, T.; Maciejewski, M.; Krumeich, F.; Baiker, A. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 666– 673 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201000092
Google Scholar
198Su, F. Z.; Mathew, S. C.; Mohlmann, L.; Antonietti, M.; Wang, X. C.; Blechert, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 657– 660 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201004365
Google Scholar
199Furukawa, S.; Ohno, Y.; Shishido, T.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1150– 1153 DOI: 10.1021/cs200318n
Google Scholar
200Lang, X. J.; Ma, W. H.; Zhao, Y. B.; Chen, C. C.; Ji, H. W.; Zhao, J. C. Chem. - Eur. J. 2012, 18, 2624– 2631 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201102779
Google Scholar
201Furukawa, S.; Ohno, Y.; Shishido, T.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 442– 450 DOI: 10.1021/jp310501h
Google Scholar
202Yuan, B.; Chong, R. F.; Zhang, B.; Li, J.; Liu, Y.; Li, C. Chem. Commun. 2014, 50, 15593– 15596 DOI: 10.1039/C4CC07097F
Google Scholar
203Furukawa, S.; Suga, A.; Komatsu, T. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 1214– 1222 DOI: 10.1021/cs501695m
Google Scholar
204Batist, P. A.; van de Moesdijk, C. G. M.; Matsuura, I.; Schuit, G. C. A. J. Catal. 1971, 20, 40– 57 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(71)90005-4
Google Scholar
205Soares, A. P. V.; Dimitrov, L. D.; de Oliveira, M. C. R. A.; Hilaire, L.; Portela, M. F.; Grasselli, R. K. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 253, 191– 200 DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00524-6
Google Scholar
206Jung, J. C.; Lee, H.; Kim, H.; Chung, Y. M.; Kim, T. J.; Lee, S. J.; Oh, S. H.; Kim, Y. S.; Song, I. K. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 271, 261– 265 DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2007.03.016
Google Scholar
207Park, J. H.; Noh, H.; Park, J. W.; Row, K. H.; Jung, K. D.; Shin, C. H. Res. Chem. Intermed. 2011, 37, 1125– 1134 DOI: 10.1007/s11164-011-0377-9
Google Scholar
208Miyake, T.; Hattori, A.; Hanaya, M.; Tokumaru, S.; Hamaji, H.; Okada, T. Top. Catal. 2000, 13, 243– 248 DOI: 10.1023/A:1009026131545
Google Scholar
209Asakawa, T.; Mori, Y.; Doi, T.; Tokumaru, S.; Yoshida, T. TOSOH Res. Technol. Rev. 2003, 47, 29– 37
Google Scholar
210Matsukata, M.; Kitakado, K.; Uemiya, S.; Ueyama, K.; Kojima, T. Sekiyu Gakkaishi 1994, 37, 428– 434 DOI: 10.1627/jpi1958.37.428
Google Scholar
211Takehira, K.; Chena, J. A. T.; Niwa, S.; Hayakawa, T.; Ishikawa, T. J. Catal. 1982, 76, 354– 368 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(82)90266-4
Google Scholar
212Takehira, K.; Mimoun, H.; Deroch, I. S. J. Catal. 1979, 58, 155– 169 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(79)90254-9
Google Scholar
213Tanabe, Y. Hydrocarb. Proc. 1981, 60, 187– 190
Google Scholar
214Yamamatsu, S.; Yamaguchi, T.; Yokota, K.; Nagano, O.; Chono, M.; Aoshima, A. Catal. Surv. Asia 2010, 14, 124– 131 DOI: 10.1007/s10563-010-9101-9
Google Scholar
215Suzuki, K.; Yamaguchi, T.; Matsushita, K.; Iitsuka, C.; Miura, J.; Akaogi, T.; Ishida, H. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 1845– 1849 DOI: 10.1021/cs4004084
Google Scholar
216Ghenciu, A. F. Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 2002, 6, 389– 399 DOI: 10.1016/S1359-0286(02)00108-0
Google Scholar
217Santra, A. K.; Goodman, D. W. Electrochim. Acta 2002, 47, 3595– 3609 DOI: 10.1016/S0013-4686(02)00330-4
Google Scholar
218Over, H.; Muhler, M. Prog. Surf. Sci. 2003, 72, 3– 17 DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6816(03)00011-X
Google Scholar
219Min, B. K.; Friend, C. M. Chem. Rev. 2007, 107, 2709– 2724 DOI: 10.1021/cr050954d
Google Scholar
220Freund, H.-J.; Meijer, G.; Scheffler, M.; Schlogl, R.; Wolf, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 10064– 10094 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201101378
Google Scholar
221Haruta, M.; Yamada, N.; Kobayashi, T.; Iijima, S. J. Catal. 1989, 115, 301– 309 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(89)90034-1
Google Scholar
222Saravanan, G.; Abe, H.; Xu, Y.; Sekido, N.; Hirata, H.; Matsumoto, S.; Yoshikawa, H.; Yamabe-Mitarai, Y. Langmuir 2010, 26, 11446– 11451 DOI: 10.1021/la100942h
Google Scholar
223Liu, X. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Li, L.; Zhang, T.; Mou, C. Y.; Lee, J. F. J. Catal. 2011, 278, 288– 296 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.12.016
Google Scholar
224Liu, X. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Wang, X. D.; Mou, C. Y.; Zhang, T. Chem. Commun. 2008, 3187– 3189 DOI: 10.1039/b804362k
Google Scholar
225Kameoka, S.; Tsai, A. P. Catal. Today 2008, 132, 88– 92 DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2007.12.092
Google Scholar
226Bauer, J. C.; Mullins, D.; Li, M. J.; Wu, Z. L.; Payzant, E. A.; Overbury, S. H.; Dai, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 2571– 2581 DOI: 10.1039/c0cp01859g
Google Scholar
227Kameoka, S.; Tsai, A. P. Catal. Lett. 2008, 121, 337– 341 DOI: 10.1007/s10562-007-9344-x
Google Scholar
228Xiao, C. X.; Wang, L. L.; Maligal-Ganesh, R. V.; Smetana, V.; Walen, H.; Thiel, P. A.; Miller, G. J.; Johnson, D. D.; Huang, W. Y. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 9592– 9595 DOI: 10.1021/ja403175c
Google Scholar
229Ayastuy, J. L.; Gonzalez-Marcos, M. P.; Gonzalez-Velasco, J. R.; Gutierrez-Ortiz, M. A. Appl. Catal., B 2007, 70, 532– 541 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2006.01.028
Google Scholar
230Kotobuki, M.; Watanabe, A.; Uchida, H.; Yamashita, H.; Watanabe, M. J. Catal. 2005, 236, 262– 269 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2005.09.026
Google Scholar
231Tanaka, K. I.; Shou, M.; He, H.; Shi, X. Y. Catal. Lett. 2006, 110, 185– 190 DOI: 10.1007/s10562-006-0107-x
Google Scholar
232Zhang, H.; Lin, D. R.; Xu, G. T.; Zheng, J. B.; Zhang, N. W.; Li, Y. H.; Chen, B. H. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2015, 40, 1742– 1751 DOI: 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.12.006
Google Scholar
233Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 734– 737 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200603144
Google Scholar
234Li, H. L.; Yu, X. H.; Tu, S. T.; Yan, J. Y.; Wang, Z. D. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 387, 215– 223 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2010.08.030
Google Scholar
235Wang, C.; Li, B. D.; Lin, H. Q.; Yuan, Y. Z. J. Power Sources 2012, 202, 200– 208 DOI: 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.11.044
Google Scholar
236Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Seo, K. W.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Catal. Lett. 2006, 110, 275– 279 DOI: 10.1007/s10562-006-0121-z
Google Scholar
237Kugai, J.; Kitagawa, R.; Seino, S.; Nakagawa, T.; Ohkubo, Y.; Nitani, H.; Daimon, H.; Yamamoto, T. A. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 406, 43– 50 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2011.08.006
Google Scholar
238Lang, S.; Turk, M.; Kraushaar-Czarnetzki, B. J. Catal. 2012, 286, 78– 87 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.017
Google Scholar
239Kugai, J.; Moriya, T.; Seino, S.; Nakagawa, T.; Ohkubo, Y.; Nitani, H.; Mizukoshi, Y.; Yamamoto, T. A. Appl. Catal., B 2012, 126, 306– 314 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2012.07.028
Google Scholar
240Huang, S. J.; Hara, K.; Fukuoka, A. Energy Environ. Sci. 2009, 2, 1060– 1068 DOI: 10.1039/b910696k
Google Scholar
241Lanza, R.; Bersani, M.; Conte, L.; Martucci, A.; Canu, P.; Guglielmi, M.; Mattei, G.; Bello, V.; Centazzo, M.; Rosei, R. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118, 25392– 25402 DOI: 10.1021/jp503531b
Google Scholar
242Casado-Rivera, E.; Volpe, D. J.; Alden, L.; Lind, C.; Downie, C.; Vazquez-Alvarez, T.; Angelo, A. C. D.; DiSalvo, F. J.; Abruna, H. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 4043– 4049 DOI: 10.1021/ja038497a
Google Scholar
243Schmidt, T. J.; Noeske, M.; Gasteiger, H. A.; Behm, R. J.; Britz, P.; Bonnemann, H. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1998, 145, 925– 931 DOI: 10.1149/1.1838368
Google Scholar
244Schmidt, T. J.; Gasteiger, H. A.; Behm, R. J. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1999, 146, 1296– 1304 DOI: 10.1149/1.1391761
Google Scholar
245Kumar, V. B.; Sanetuntikul, J.; Ganesan, P.; Porat, Z.; Shanmugam, S.; Gedanken, A. Electrochim. Acta 2016, 190, 659– 667 DOI: 10.1016/j.electacta.2015.12.193
Google Scholar
246Sanetuntikul, J.; Ketpang, K.; Shanmugam, S. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 7321– 7327 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01390
Google Scholar
247Kang, Y. J.; Pyo, J. B.; Ye, X. C.; Gordon, T. R.; Murray, C. B. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 5642– 5647 DOI: 10.1021/nn301583g
Google Scholar
248Gunji, T.; Tanabe, T.; Jeevagan, A. J.; Usui, S.; Tsuda, T.; Kaneko, S.; Saravanan, G.; Abe, H.; Matsumoto, F. J. Power Sources 2015, 273, 990– 998 DOI: 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.09.182
Google Scholar
249Tian, N.; Zhou, Z. Y.; Sun, S. G.; Ding, Y.; Wang, Z. L. Science 2007, 316, 732– 735 DOI: 10.1126/science.1140484
Google Scholar
250Tian, N.; Zhou, Z. Y.; Sun, S. G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 19801– 19817 DOI: 10.1021/jp804051e
Google Scholar
251Tian, N.; Zhou, Z. Y.; Sun, S. G. Chem. Commun. 2009, 1502– 1504 DOI: 10.1039/b819751b
Google Scholar
252Hu, J. L.; Wang, Y.; VanderWiel, D.; Chin, C.; Palo, D.; Rozmiarek, R.; Dagle, R.; Cao, J.; Holladay, J.; Baker, E. Chem. Eng. J. 2003, 93, 55– 60 DOI: 10.1016/S1385-8947(02)00108-0
Google Scholar
253Sa, S.; Silva, H.; Brandao, L.; Sousa, J. M.; Mendes, A. Appl. Catal., B 2010, 99, 43– 57 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2010.06.015
Google Scholar
254Iwasa, N.; Kudo, S.; Takahashi, H.; Masuda, S.; Takezawa, N. Catal. Lett. 1993, 19, 211– 216 DOI: 10.1007/BF00771756
Google Scholar
255Iwasa, N.; Masuda, S.; Ogawa, N.; Takezawa, N. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 125, 145– 157 DOI: 10.1016/0926-860X(95)00004-6
Google Scholar
256Iwasa, N.; Ogawa, N.; Masuda, S.; Takezawa, N. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1998, 71, 1451– 1455 DOI: 10.1246/bcsj.71.1451
Google Scholar
257Holladay, J. D.; Wang, Y.; Jones, E. Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 4767– 4789 DOI: 10.1021/cr020721b
Google Scholar
258Tsai, A. P.; Kameoka, S.; Ishii, Y. J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 2004, 73, 3270– 3273 DOI: 10.1143/JPSJ.73.3270
Google Scholar
259Tsai, A. P.; Kimura, T.; Suzuki, Y.; Kameoka, S.; Shimoda, M.; Ishii, Y. J. Chem. Phys. 2013, 138, 144701 DOI: 10.1063/1.4798932
Google Scholar
260Chen, Z. X.; Neyman, K. M.; Lim, K. H.; Rosch, N. Langmuir 2004, 20, 8068– 8077 DOI: 10.1021/la049377z
Google Scholar
261Lim, K. H.; Chen, Z. X.; Neyman, K. M.; Rosch, N. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 14890– 14897 DOI: 10.1021/jp061410y
Google Scholar
262Lin, S.; Xie, D. Q.; Guo, H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 20583– 20589 DOI: 10.1021/jp206511q
Google Scholar
263Li, X.; Lim, K. H. ChemCatChem 2012, 4, 1311– 1320 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201200028
Google Scholar
264Krajci, M.; Tsai, A. P.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2015, 330, 6– 18 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2015.06.020
Google Scholar
265Chen, Z. X.; Lim, K. H.; Neyman, K. M.; Rosch, N. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 4568– 4574 DOI: 10.1021/jp044843e
Google Scholar
266Huang, Y. C.; Chen, Z. X. Langmuir 2010, 26, 10796– 10802 DOI: 10.1021/la100619q
Google Scholar
267Halevi, B.; Peterson, E. J.; Delariva, A.; Jeroro, E.; Lebarbier, V. M.; Wang, Y.; Vohs, J. M.; Kiefer, B.; Kunkes, E.; Havecker, M.; Behrens, M.; Sehlogl, R.; Datye, A. K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17181– 17190 DOI: 10.1021/jp103967x
Google Scholar
268Friedrich, M.; Teschner, D.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Armbrüster, M. J. Catal. 2012, 285, 41– 47 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.09.013
Google Scholar
269Smith, G. K.; Lin, S.; Lai, W. Z.; Datye, A.; Xie, D. Q.; Guo, H. Surf. Sci. 2011, 605, 750– 759 DOI: 10.1016/j.susc.2011.01.014
Google Scholar
270Huang, Y. C.; Chen, Z. X. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 18752– 18760 DOI: 10.1021/jp206093e
Google Scholar
271Neumann, M.; Teschner, D.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Reschetilowski, W.; Armbrüster, M. J. Catal. 2016, 340, 49– 59 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2016.05.006
Google Scholar
272Friedrich, M.; Teschner, D.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Armbrüster, M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 14930– 14935 DOI: 10.1021/jp303174h
Google Scholar
273Llorca, J.; Delapiscina, P. R.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Sales, J.; Homs, N. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 139– 146 DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1995.1239
Google Scholar
274Bollmann, L.; Ratts, J. L.; Joshi, A. M.; Williams, W. D.; Pazmino, J.; Joshi, Y. V.; Miller, J. T.; Kropf, A. J.; Delgass, W. N.; Ribeiro, F. H. J. Catal. 2008, 257, 43– 54 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2008.04.005
Google Scholar
275Lebarbier, V.; Dagle, R.; Datye, A.; Wang, Y. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 379, 3– 6 DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2010.02.008
Google Scholar
276Arana, J.; Homs, N.; Sales, J.; Fierro, J. L. G.; de la Piscina, P. R. Catal. Lett. 2001, 72, 183– 189 DOI: 10.1023/A:1009053724119
Google Scholar
277Furukawa, S.; Tsuchiya, A.; Kojima, Y.; Endo, M.; Komatsu, T. Chem. Lett. 2016, 45, 158– 160 DOI: 10.1246/cl.151036
Google Scholar
278Li, Q.; Song, L. J.; Pan, L. H.; Zhuang, X. L.; Ling, M. L.; Duan, L. H. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 20345– 20353 DOI: 10.1039/c3cp52504j
Google Scholar
279Sachtler, W. M. H. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Wiley-VCH: New York, 2008; pp 1585– 1593.
Google Scholar
280Lopez, N.; Vargas-Fuentes, C. Chem. Commun. 2012, 48, 1379– 1391 DOI: 10.1039/C1CC14922A
Google Scholar
281Hammer, B.; Norskov, J. K. Surf. Sci. 1995, 343, 211– 220 DOI: 10.1016/0039-6028(96)80007-0
Google Scholar
282Hammer, B. Top. Catal. 2006, 37, 3– 16 DOI: 10.1007/s11244-006-0004-y
Google Scholar
283Nikolla, E.; Schwank, J.; Linic, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2747– 2754 DOI: 10.1021/ja809291e
Google Scholar
284Stamenkovic, V. R.; Mun, B. S.; Arenz, M.; Mayrhofer, K. J. J.; Lucas, C. A.; Wang, G. F.; Ross, P. N.; Markovic, N. M. Nat. Mater. 2007, 6, 241– 247 DOI: 10.1038/nmat1840
Google Scholar
285Furukawa, S.; Ehara, K.; Ozawa, K.; Komatsu, T. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014, 16, 19828– 19831 DOI: 10.1039/C4CP01514B
Google Scholar
286Mun, B. S.; Watanabe, M.; Rossi, M.; Stamenkovic, V.; Markovic, N. M.; Ross, P. N. J. Chem. Phys. 2005, 123, 204717 DOI: 10.1063/1.2126662
Google Scholar
287Sinfelt, J. J. Catal. 1973, 29, 308– 315 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(73)90234-0
Google Scholar
288Roberti, A.; Ponec, V.; Sachtler, W. J. Catal. 1973, 28, 381– 390 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(73)90131-0
Google Scholar
289Sachtler, J. W. A.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1983, 81, 77– 94 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(83)90148-3
Google Scholar
290Baddeley, C. J.; Tikhov, M.; Hardacre, C.; Lomas, J. R.; Lambert, R. M. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 2189– 2194 DOI: 10.1021/jp9517054
Google Scholar
291Dekoster, A.; Vansanten, R. A. Surf. Sci. 1990, 233, 366– 380 DOI: 10.1016/0039-6028(90)90650-W
Google Scholar
292Borg, H.; Reijerse, J. J.; Van Santen, R.; Niemantsverdriet, J. J. Chem. Phys. 1994, 101, 10052– 10063 DOI: 10.1063/1.467994
Google Scholar
293Liu, P.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2001, 3, 3814– 3818 DOI: 10.1039/b103525h
Google Scholar
294Prinz, J.; Gaspari, R.; Stockl, Q. S.; Gille, P.; Armbrüster, M.; Brune, H.; Groning, O.; Pignedoli, C. A.; Passerone, D.; Widmer, R. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118, 12260– 12265 DOI: 10.1021/jp501584f
Google Scholar
295Santoro, F.; Psaro, R.; Ravasio, N.; Zaccheria, F. RSC Adv. 2014, 4, 2596– 2600 DOI: 10.1039/C3RA44364G
Google Scholar
296Kornilov, I. In Order-Disorder Transformations in Alloys; Springer: Tübingen, 1974; p 132– 146.
Google Scholar
297 Binary Alloy Phase Diagrams; Massalski, T. B.; Okamoto, H.; Subramanian, P. R.; Kacprzak, L., Eds.; ASM International: Materials Park, OH, 1990; pp 1225– 1226.
Google Scholar
298Hodnik, N.; Jeyabharathi, C.; Meier, J. C.; Kostka, A.; Phani, K. L.; Rečnik, A.; Bele, M.; Hočevar, S.; Gaberšček, M.; Mayrhofer, K. J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014, 16, 13610– 13615 DOI: 10.1039/c4cp00585f
Google Scholar
299Watanabe, M.; Tsurumi, K.; Mizukami, T.; Nakamura, T.; Stonehart, P. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1994, 141, 2659– 2668 DOI: 10.1149/1.2059162
Google Scholar
300Koh, S.; Toney, M. F.; Strasser, P. Electrochim. Acta 2007, 52, 2765– 2774 DOI: 10.1016/j.electacta.2006.08.039
Google Scholar
301Wang, D.; Xin, H. L.; Hovden, R.; Wang, H.; Yu, Y.; Muller, D. A.; DiSalvo, F. J.; Abruña, H. D. Nat. Mater. 2013, 12, 81– 87 DOI: 10.1038/nmat3458
Google Scholar
302Kim, J.; Lee, Y.; Sun, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 4996– 4997 DOI: 10.1021/ja1009629
Google Scholar
303Dutta, I.; Carpenter, M. K.; Balogh, M. P.; Ziegelbauer, J. M.; Moylan, T. E.; Atwan, M. H.; Irish, N. P. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 16309– 16320 DOI: 10.1021/jp106042z
Google Scholar
304Hodnik, N.; Bele, M.; Rečnik, A.; Logar, N. Z.; Gaberšček, M.; Hočevar, S. Energy Procedia 2012, 29, 208– 215 DOI: 10.1016/j.egypro.2012.09.026
Google Scholar
305Wang, D.; Yu, Y.; Xin, H. L.; Hovden, R.; Ercius, P.; Mundy, J. A.; Chen, H.; Richard, J. H.; Muller, D. A.; DiSalvo, F. J.; Abruna, H. D. Nano Lett. 2012, 12, 5230– 5238 DOI: 10.1021/nl302404g
Google Scholar
306Strasser, P.; Koh, S.; Greeley, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2008, 10, 3670– 3683 DOI: 10.1039/b803717e
Google Scholar
307Oezaslan, M.; Heggen, M.; Strasser, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 514– 524 DOI: 10.1021/ja2088162
Google Scholar
308Wowsnick, G.; Teschner, D.; Kasatkin, I.; Girgsdies, F.; Armbrüster, M.; Zhang, A. P.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R.; Behrens, M. J. Catal. 2014, 309, 209– 220 DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2013.09.019
Google Scholar
309Hansen, P. L.; Molenbroek, A. M.; Ruban, A. V. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 1861– 1868 DOI: 10.1021/jp962771o
Google Scholar
310Deng, H.; Hu, W.; Shu, X.; Zhao, L.; Zhang, B. Surf. Sci. 2002, 517, 177– 185 DOI: 10.1016/S0039-6028(02)02061-7
Google Scholar
311Van Langeveld, A.; Ponec, V. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1983, 16, 405– 423 DOI: 10.1016/0378-5963(83)90083-1
Google Scholar
312Bardi, U.; Ross, P. N. Surf. Sci. 1984, 146, L555– L560 DOI: 10.1016/0167-2584(84)90787-4
Google Scholar
313Bardi, U.; Dahlgren, D.; Ross, P. N. J. Catal. 1986, 100, 196– 209 DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(86)90085-0
Google Scholar
314Kovnir, K.; Armbrüster, M.; Teschner, D.; Venkov, T. V.; Szentmiklosi, L.; Jentoft, F. C.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Grin, Y.; Schlogl, R. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 1784– 1792 DOI: 10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.058
Google Scholar
315Darby, J.; Myles, K. Metall. Trans. A 1972, 3, 653– 657 DOI: 10.1007/BF02642747
Google Scholar
316Miedema, A.; Boom, R.; De Boer, F. J. Less-Common Met. 1975, 41, 283– 298 DOI: 10.1016/0022-5088(75)90034-X
Google Scholar
317Hsiao, Y. J.; Chang, Y. A.; Ipser, H. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1977, 124, 1235– 1239 DOI: 10.1149/1.2133536
Google Scholar
318Boom, R.; De Boer, F.; Niessen, A.; Miedema, A. Physica B+C 1983, 115, 285– 309 DOI: 10.1016/0378-4363(83)90020-7
Google Scholar
319Nash, P.; Nash, A. Bull. Alloy Phase Diagrams 1985, 6, 350– 359 DOI: 10.1007/BF02880521
Google Scholar
320Niessen, A.; Miedema, A.; De Boer, F.; Boom, R. Physica B+C 1988, 151, 401– 432 DOI: 10.1016/0378-4363(88)90296-3
Google Scholar
321Niessen, A.; Miedema, A.; De Boer, F.; Boom, R. Phys. B 1988, 152, 303– 346 DOI: 10.1016/0921-4526(88)90002-6
Google Scholar
322Gachon, J. C.; Selhaoui, N.; Aba, B.; Hertz, J. J. Phase Equilib. 1992, 13, 506– 511 DOI: 10.1007/BF02665763
Google Scholar
323Lbibb, R.; Chouiyakh, A.; Castanet, R. Intermetallics 1996, 4, 589– 592 DOI: 10.1016/0966-9795(96)00042-8
Google Scholar
324Anres, P.; Gaune-Escard, M.; Bros, J. P.; Hayer, E. J. Alloys Compd. 1998, 280, 158– 167 DOI: 10.1016/S0925-8388(98)00682-3
Google Scholar
325Gröbner, J.; Wenzel, R.; Fischer, G.; Schmid-Fetzer, R. J. Phase Equilib. 1999, 20, 615– 625 DOI: 10.1361/105497199770340608
Google Scholar
326Guo, Q.; Kleppa, O. J. J. Alloys Compd. 2001, 321, 169– 182 DOI: 10.1016/S0925-8388(01)00956-2
Google Scholar
327Liu, W.; Mohney, S. Mater. Sci. Eng., B 2003, 103, 189– 201 DOI: 10.1016/S0921-5107(03)00214-9
Google Scholar
328Liu, W.; Mohney, S. J. Electron. Mater. 2003, 32, 1090– 1099 DOI: 10.1007/s11664-003-0093-3
Google Scholar
329Abe, T.; Sundman, B.; Onodera, H. J. Phase Equilib. Diffus. 2006, 27, 5– 13 DOI: 10.1361/105497196X92736
Google Scholar
330Amore, S.; Delsante, S.; Parodi, N.; Borzone, G. Thermochim. Acta 2009, 481, 1– 6 DOI: 10.1016/j.tca.2008.09.018
Google Scholar
331Kummamuru, R. K.; De La Rama, L.; Hu, L.; Vaudin, M. D.; Efremov, M. Y.; Green, M. L.; LaVan, D. A.; Allen, L. H. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2009, 95, 181911 DOI: 10.1063/1.3255009
Google Scholar
332Stolyarova, T.; Voronin, M.; Osadchii, E.; Brichkina, E. Geochem. Int. 2015, 53, 748– 751 DOI: 10.1134/S0016702915080091
Google Scholar
333Weilach, C.; Kozlov, S. M.; Holzapfel, H. H.; Fottinger, K.; Neyman, K. M.; Rupprechter, G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 18768– 18778 DOI: 10.1021/jp304556s
Google Scholar
334Lee, I.; Delbecq, F.; Morales, R.; Albiter, M. A.; Zaera, F. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 132– 138 DOI: 10.1038/nmat2371
Google Scholar
335Xia, Y. N.; Xiong, Y. J.; Lim, B.; Skrabalak, S. E. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 60– 103 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200802248
Google Scholar
336Studer, M.; Blaser, H. U.; Exner, C. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 45– 65 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.200390029
Google Scholar
337Burgi, T.; Baiker, A. Acc. Chem. Res. 2004, 37, 909– 917 DOI: 10.1021/ar040072l
Google Scholar
338Harris, K. D. M.; Thomas, S. J. M. ChemCatChem 2009, 1, 223– 231 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.200900181
Google Scholar
339Ma, L. Q.; Abney, C.; Lin, W. B. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2009, 38, 1248– 1256 DOI: 10.1039/b807083k
Google Scholar
340Gellman, A. J.; Huang, Y.; Feng, X.; Pushkarev, V. V.; Holsclaw, B.; Mhatre, B. S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 19208– 19214 DOI: 10.1021/ja408659v
Google Scholar
341Prinz, J.; Groning, O.; Brune, H.; Widmer, R. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 3902– 3906 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201410107
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
0
Mentioning
358
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 379 publications.
Nathan Boulangeot, Florian Brix, Frédéric Sur, Émilie Gaudry. Hydrogen, Oxygen, and Lead Adsorbates on Al13Co4(100): Accurate Potential Energy Surfaces at Low Computational Cost by Machine Learning and DFT-Based Data. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation 2024, Article ASAP.
Jingting Song, Zheng-Xin Qian, Ji Yang, Xiu-Mei Lin, Qingchi Xu, Jian-Feng Li. In situ/Operando Investigation for Heterogeneous Electro-Catalysts: From Model Catalysts to State-of-the-Art Catalysts. ACS Energy Letters 2024, Article ASAP.
Julia-Maria Hübner, Thomas B. Shiell, Piotr A. Guńka, Shuo Tao, Li Zhu, Mads Fonager Hansen, Emma S. Bullock, Stella Chariton, Vitali B. Prakapenka, Yingwei Fei, Vladislav A. Blatov, Davide M. Proserpio, Timothy A. Strobel. A Sodium Germanosilicide with Unusual Network Topology. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2024, 146 (30) , 20544-20549. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c03960
Haojie Liu, Yao Zhang, Luyao Zhang, Xilong Mu, Lei Zhang, Sheng Zhu, Kun Wang, Boyuan Yu, Yulong Jiang, Jihan Zhou, Feng Yang. Unveiling Atomic-Scaled Local Chemical Order of High-Entropy Intermetallic Catalyst for Alkyl-Substitution-Dependent Alkyne Semihydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2024, 146 (29) , 20193-20204. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c05295
Olusola Johnson, Yang He, Isabella St. Pierre-Charles, Jillian Richter, Babu Joseph, John N. Kuhn. Enhancing Low-Temperature Syngas Production via Surface Tailoring of Supported Intermetallic Nanocatalysts. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (10) , 7746-7755. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.4c01180
Peng Yin, Jialong Shi, Ming Zuo, Wanqun Zhang, Bo Peng, Bin Jiang, Xian-Zhu Fu, Hai-Wei Liang. Phase-Transition-Induced Surface Reconstruction of Rh1 Site in Intermetallic Alloy for Propane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2024, 15 (16) , 4501-4507. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.4c00719
P. Wibner, R. Kriegel, D. Garstenauer, O. Zobač, I. Kuběna, N. Rösch, T. Seyller, M. Armbrüster, K. W. Richter. Facile Thermodynamically Controlled Synthesis of Intermetallic Zn1–xPdx/Al2O3 and Its Methanol Steam Reforming Properties. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2024, 128 (16) , 6906-6916. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.4c00609
Ben Liu, Yoshinao Nakagawa, Mizuho Yabushita, Keiichi Tomishige. Highly Efficient Iridium–Iron–Molybdenum Catalysts Condensed on Boron Nitride for Biomass-Derived Diols’ Hydrogenolysis to Secondary Monoalcohols. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2024, 146 (14) , 9984-10000. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c00661
Ama D. Agyapong, Suzanne E. Mohney. Single-Crystal Intermetallic Catalysts Using MoS2 as a Growth Template. Crystal Growth & Design 2024, 24 (4) , 1578-1590. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.3c01167
Xu Zhang, Xin Lin, Xing Hu, Shize Geng, Fang Xiao, Kezhu Jiang, Shuirong Li, Zhifeng Zheng, Lingzheng Bu. General Method for Trimetallic Platinum–Cobalt–Rare Earth Alloys on Nitrogen-Doped Carbon as Efficient Methanol Electrooxidation Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (1) , 84-93. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c04055
Gourab Bhaskar, Ranjan K. Behera, Volodymyr Gvozdetskyi, Scott L. Carnahan, Raquel A. Ribeiro, Paul Oftedahl, Charles Ward, Paul C. Canfield, Aaron J. Rossini, Wenyu Huang, Julia V. Zaikina. Breaking New Ground: MBene Route toward Selective Vinyl Double Bond Hydrogenation in Nitroarenes. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (50) , 27459-27470. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c08642
Fangxu Lin, Menggang Li, Lingyou Zeng, Mingchuan Luo, Shaojun Guo. Intermetallic Nanocrystals for Fuel-Cells-Based Electrocatalysis. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (22) , 12507-12593. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.3c00382
Yihua Sun, Zhiyi Yu, Wenyao Chen, Yueqiang Cao, Jing Zhang, Xuezhi Duan, Gang Qian, Xinggui Zhou. PtBi Intermetallic Compounds with Enhanced Stability towards Base-Free Selective Oxidation of Glycerol. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (43) , 17503-17512. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c02113
Liyuan Wang, Shuang Meng, Chongyang Tang, Changhong Zhan, Shize Geng, Kezhu Jiang, Xiaoqing Huang, Lingzheng Bu. PtNi/PtIn-Skin Fishbone-Like Nanowires Boost Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Catalysis. ACS Nano 2023, 17 (18) , 17779-17789. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c02832
Huiran Zhou, Huigen Fu, Bingxin Li, Xinyu Yan, Yang Su, Xiaoli Pan, Qinghu Tang, Xiaobing Wang, Xiaohua Zhao, Yang Liu, Zongxian Yang, Zhansheng Lu, Xiangdong Lou, Lin Li. Homogeneous Ni Single-Atom Sites in the NiZn Intermetallic Nanostructure for Efficient Semihydrogenation of Acetylene. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2023, 11 (30) , 11052-11066. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.3c01036
Yingyu Ren, Yusen Yang, Min Wei. Recent Advances on Heterogeneous Non-noble Metal Catalysts toward Selective Hydrogenation Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (13) , 8902-8924. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01442
Tianyao Gong, Kelly K. Rudman, Baichuan Guo, Anthony Shoji Hall. Electrochemical Synthesis of Nanostructured Ordered Intermetallic Materials under Ambient Conditions. Accounts of Chemical Research 2023, 56 (12) , 1373-1383. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00856
Zahra Almisbaa, Hassan A. Aljama, Khalid Almajnouni, Luigi Cavallo, Philippe Sautet. Acetylene Semi-Hydrogenation on Intermetallic Ni–In Catalysts: Ni Ensemble and Acetylene Coverage Effects from a Theoretical Analysis. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (11) , 7358-7370. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01175
Hui Guo, Tao-Tao Shi, Ji-Tian Chen, Zhao-Xu Chen. Theoretical Investigation of the Properties of Pd2Cu Intermetallics and CO2 Hydrogenation to Ethanol Catalyzed on Pd2Cu (110). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (21) , 10097-10106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c01381
Yuki Nakaya, Shinya Furukawa. Catalysis of Alloys: Classification, Principles, and Design for a Variety of Materials and Reactions. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 5859-5947. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00356
Wei-Jie Zeng, Chang Wang, Peng Yin, Lei Tong, Qiang-Qiang Yan, Ming-Xi Chen, Shi-Long Xu, Hai-Wei Liang. Alloying Matters for Ordering: Synthesis of Highly Ordered PtCo Intermetallic Catalysts for Fuel Cells. Inorganic Chemistry 2023, 62 (13) , 5262-5269. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.3c00331
Leonard Rößner, Dennis Tatiana Patiño Soriano, Oytun Tiryaki, Ulrich Burkhardt, Marc Armbrüster. Synthesis of Isostructural Intermetallic Sn–Pb–Bi–Pt Platform Materials for Catalytic Investigations. Inorganic Chemistry 2023, 62 (11) , 4688-4695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.3c00163
Tomoaki Takayama, Mitsuki Sakai, Seiji Yamazoe, Takayuki Komatsu. Durable Electrocatalytic CO2 Reduction Using Intermetallic Compound PdIn Nanoparticles and Their Application to a Solar Energy Harvesting System. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2023, 6 (5) , 2793-2803. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.2c03638
Ho Young Kim, Minki Jun, Sang Hoon Joo, Kwangyeol Lee. Intermetallic Nanoarchitectures for Efficient Electrocatalysis. ACS Nanoscience Au 2023, 3 (1) , 28-36. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnanoscienceau.2c00045
Silvia Mauri, Gianluca D’Olimpio, Corneliu Ghica, Luca Braglia, Chia-Nung Kuo, Marian Cosmin Istrate, Chin Shan Lue, Luca Ottaviano, Tomasz Klimczuk, Danil W. Boukhvalov, Antonio Politano, Piero Torelli. Hydrogen Production Mechanism in Low-Temperature Methanol Decomposition Catalyzed by Ni3Sn4 Intermetallic Compound: A Combined Operando and Density Functional Theory Investigation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2023, 14 (5) , 1334-1342. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c03471
Shumei Feng, Yanyan Geng, Hongyan Liu, Hao Li. Targeted Intermetallic Nanocatalysts for Sustainable Biomass and CO2 Valorization. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (24) , 14999-15020. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03443
Hong Li, Xianxian Qin, Xia-Guang Zhang, Kun Jiang, Wen-Bin Cai. Boron-Doped Platinum-Group Metals in Electrocatalysis: A Perspective. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12750-12764. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04358
Yurou Li, Kelin Yan, Yueqiang Cao, Xiaohu Ge, Xinggui Zhou, Weikang Yuan, De Chen, Xuezhi Duan. Mechanistic and Atomic-Level Insights into Semihydrogenation Catalysis to Light Olefins. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 12138-12161. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03750
Han-Tang Jhao, Cheng-Yu Zhan, Hsin-Lun Wu. Light-Enhanced Catalytic Activity of Intermetallic PdCd Nanocubes for Suzuki Coupling. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (7) , 9990-9995. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c02396
Ridha Zerdoumi, Oksana Matselko, Leonard Rößner, Bidushi Sarkar, Yuri Grin, Marc Armbrüster. Disentangling Electronic and Geometric Effects in Electrocatalysis through Substitution in Isostructural Intermetallic Compounds. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (18) , 8379-8388. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03348
Wen-Zhong Jiao, Peng Yin, Lei Tong, Shi-Long Xu, Chang-Song Ma, Lu-Jie Zuo, Ao Wang, Hai-Wei Liang. Pentacoordinate Al3+ Sites Anchoring Synthesis of Palladium Intermetallic Catalysts on Al2O3 Supports. Inorganic Chemistry 2022, 61 (18) , 6706-6710. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c00796
Ming-Xi Chen, Xuan Luo, Tian-Wei Song, Bin Jiang, Hai-Wei Liang. Ordering Degree-Dependent Activity of Pt3M (M = Fe, Mn) Intermetallic Nanoparticles for Electrocatalytic Methanol Oxidation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2022, 13 (16) , 3549-3555. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c00433
Sankar Sasidharan, Assa Aravindh Sasikala Devi, Rajan Jose, Takanori Tamaki, Anilkumar M. Gopinathan, Takeo Yamaguchi. Alkaline Formate Oxidation with Colloidal Palladium–Tin Alloy Nanocrystals. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2022, 5 (1) , 266-277. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c02817
Dezhen Wu, Libo Yao, Michael Ricci, Jialu Li, Rongxuan Xie, Zhenmeng Peng. Ambient Synthesis of Pt-Reactive Metal Alloy and High-Entropy Alloy Nanocatalysts Utilizing Hydrogen Cold Plasma. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (1) , 266-272. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c03389
Hiroshi Itahara, Yasuhiro Takatani, Naoko Takahashi, Satoru Kosaka, Akihiro Nagoya, Masanori Inaba, Yuji Kamitaka, Yu Morimoto. Synthesis of Carbon-Supported Intermetallic Pt5Ce Compound Nanoparticles via a Water-Based Impregnation Route. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (1) , 422-429. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c03912
Minda Chen, Clifford R. Bowers, Wenyu Huang. Silica-Encapsulated Intermetallic Nanoparticles for Highly Active and Selective Heterogeneous Catalysis. Accounts of Materials Research 2021, 2 (12) , 1190-1202. https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.1c00153
Minda Chen, Geet Gupta, Claudio W. Ordonez, Andrew R. Lamkins, Charles J. Ward, Celia A. Abolafia, Biying Zhang, Luke T. Roling, Wenyu Huang. Intermetallic Nanocatalyst for Highly Active Heterogeneous Hydroformylation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (49) , 20907-20915. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c09665
Carena L. Daniels, Da-Jiang Liu, Marquix A. S. Adamson, Megan Knobeloch, Javier Vela. Azo(xy) vs Aniline Selectivity in Catalytic Nitroarene Reduction by Intermetallics: Experiments and Simulations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (44) , 24440-24450. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c08569
Sandra L. A. Bueno, Xun Zhan, Joshua Wolfe, Kaustav Chatterjee, Sara E. Skrabalak. Phase-Controlled Synthesis of Pd–Sn Nanocrystal Catalysts of Defined Size and Shape. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (44) , 51876-51885. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c04801
Kelsey L. Hodge, Joshua E. Goldberger. Alkyne Hydrogenation Catalysis across a Family of Ga/In Layered Zintl Phases. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (44) , 52152-52159. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c10358
Narayanan Raman, Moritz Wolf, Martina Heller, Nina Heene-Würl, Nicola Taccardi, Marco Haumann, Peter Felfer, Peter Wasserscheid. GaPt Supported Catalytically Active Liquid Metal Solution Catalysis for Propane Dehydrogenation–Support Influence and Coking Studies. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13423-13433. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01924
Ridha Zerdoumi, Marc Armbrüster. Insights into the Electronic Effects in Methanol Electro-Oxidation by Ternary In1–xSnxPd2 Intermetallic Compounds. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2021, 4 (10) , 11279-11289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c02119
Yunfei Wang, Anthony Shoji Hall. Room-Temperature Synthesis of Intermetallic Cu–Zn by an Electrochemically Induced Phase Transformation. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (18) , 7309-7314. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01678
Seung Won Han, Hongjun Park, Jongho Han, Jeong-Chul Kim, John Lee, Changbum Jo, Ryong Ryoo. PtZn Intermetallic Compound Nanoparticles in Mesoporous Zeolite Exhibiting High Catalyst Durability for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (15) , 9233-9241. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01808
Maodi Wang, Miao Guo, Xiaomin Ren, Xin Liu, Qihua Yang. The Influence of Surface Structure of RhPt Bimetallic Nanoparticles on the Hydrogenation of Aromatic Compounds. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (28) , 15275-15282. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c03624
Simon Penner, Parastoo Delir Kheyrollahi Nezhad. Steering the Catalytic Properties of Intermetallic Compounds and Alloys in Reforming Reactions by Controlled in Situ Decomposition and Self-Activation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (9) , 5271-5286. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00718
Min Sheng, Shu Fujita, Sho Yamaguchi, Jun Yamasaki, Kiyotaka Nakajima, Seiji Yamazoe, Tomoo Mizugaki, Takato Mitsudome. Single-Crystal Cobalt Phosphide Nanorods as a High-Performance Catalyst for Reductive Amination of Carbonyl Compounds. JACS Au 2021, 1 (4) , 501-507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.1c00125
Jia-qi Bai, Masazumi Tamura, Akira Nakayama, Yoshinao Nakagawa, Keiichi Tomishige. Comprehensive Study on Ni- or Ir-Based Alloy Catalysts in the Hydrogenation of Olefins and Mechanistic Insight. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (6) , 3293-3309. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04615
Vanitha Reddy Naina, Sheng Wang, Dmitry I. Sharapa, Michael Zimmermann, Martin Hähsler, Lukas Niebl-Eibenstein, Junjun Wang, Christof Wöll, Yuemin Wang, Sanjay Kumar Singh, Felix Studt, Silke Behrens. Shape-Selective Synthesis of Intermetallic Pd3Pb Nanocrystals and Enhanced Catalytic Properties in the Direct Synthesis of Hydrogen Peroxide. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 2288-2301. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03561
Junhong Fu, Jinhu Dong, Rui Si, Keju Sun, Junying Zhang, Mingrun Li, Nana Yu, Bingsen Zhang, Mark G. Humphrey, Qiang Fu, Jiahui Huang. Synergistic Effects for Enhanced Catalysis in a Dual Single-Atom Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 1952-1961. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05599
Ming Zhou, Can Li, Jiye Fang. Noble-Metal Based Random Alloy and Intermetallic Nanocrystals: Syntheses and Applications. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (2) , 736-795. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00436
Yang Hu, Jens Oluf Jensen, Poul Norby, Lars Nilausen Cleemann, Feng Yang, Qingfeng Li. Mechanistic Insights into the Synthesis of Platinum–Rare Earth Metal Nanoalloys by a Solid-State Chemical Route. Chemistry of Materials 2021, 33 (2) , 535-546. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c03291
Mathilde Luneau, Jin Soo Lim, Dipna A. Patel, E. Charles H. Sykes, Cynthia M. Friend, Philippe Sautet. Guidelines to Achieving High Selectivity for the Hydrogenation of α,β-Unsaturated Aldehydes with Bimetallic and Dilute Alloy Catalysts: A Review. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (23) , 12834-12872. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00582
Jiaxuan Fan, Haoxuan Du, Yin Zhao, Qian Wang, Yanan Liu, Dianqing Li, Junting Feng. Recent Progress on Rational Design of Bimetallic Pd Based Catalysts and Their Advanced Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (22) , 13560-13583. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03280
Manish Shetty, Amber Walton, Sallye R. Gathmann, M. Alexander Ardagh, Joshua Gopeesingh, Joaquin Resasco, Turan Birol, Qi Zhang, Michael Tsapatsis, Dionisios G. Vlachos, Phillip Christopher, C. Daniel Frisbie, Omar A. Abdelrahman, Paul J. Dauenhauer. The Catalytic Mechanics of Dynamic Surfaces: Stimulating Methods for Promoting Catalytic Resonance. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (21) , 12666-12695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03336
Hiroshi Itahara, Yasuhiro Takatani, Naoko Takahashi, Satoru Kosaka. Sodium Vapor-Induced Synthesis of Intermetallic Pt5Ce Compound Nanoparticles. Inorganic Chemistry 2020, 59 (18) , 13583-13588. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c01945
Rui Ma, Tianxing Yang, Junxian Gao, Jiajing Kou, Johnny Zhu Chen, Yufei He, Jeffrey T. Miller, Dianqing Li. Composition Tuning of Ru-Based Phosphide for Enhanced Propane Selective Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (17) , 10243-10252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c01667
Yuanjun Song, Yang He, Siris Laursen. Controlling Selectivity and Stability in the Hydrocarbon Wet-Reforming Reaction Using Well-Defined Ni + Ga Intermetallic Compound Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (16) , 8968-8980. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c01261
Tao Shen, Jingjing Zhang, Ke Chen, Shaofeng Deng, Deli Wang. Recent Progress of Palladium-Based Electrocatalysts for the Formic Acid Oxidation Reaction. Energy & Fuels 2020, 34 (8) , 9137-9153. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.0c01820
KoczkurKallum M.Assistant Research Professor at the Institute for Micromanufacturingkkoczkur@indiana.eduSkrabalakSara E.James H. Rudy Professor in the Department of Chemistrysskrabal@indiana.eduMichelle L. Personick, Professor, Wesleyan University. Metal Nanocrystals. 2020https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.infocus.7e4003
Chenliang Ye, Mao Peng, Yunhao Wang, Ningqiang Zhang, Dingsheng Wang, Miaolun Jiao, Jeffrey T. Miller. Surface Hexagonal Pt1Sn1 Intermetallic on Pt Nanoparticles for Selective Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (23) , 25903-25909. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c05043
Yuki Nakaya, Masayoshi Miyazaki, Seiji Yamazoe, Ken-ichi Shimizu, Shinya Furukawa. Active, Selective, and Durable Catalyst for Alkane Dehydrogenation Based on a Well-Designed Trimetallic Alloy. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (9) , 5163-5172. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00151
Xiao Chen, He Cao, Xiaozhen Chen, Yan Du, Ji Qi, Jingjie Luo, Marc Armbrüster, Changhai Liang. Synthesis of Intermetallic Pt-Based Catalysts by Lithium Naphthalenide-Driven Reduction for Selective Hydrogenation of Cinnamaldehyde. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (16) , 18551-18561. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c01987
Carena L. Daniels, Megan Knobeloch, Philip Yox, Marquix A. S. Adamson, Yunhua Chen, Rick W. Dorn, Hao Wu, Guoquan Zhou, Huajun Fan, Aaron J. Rossini, Javier Vela. Intermetallic Nanocatalysts from Heterobimetallic Group 10–14 Pyridine-2-thiolate Precursors. Organometallics 2020, 39 (7) , 1092-1104. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.9b00803
Corentin Chatelier, Yves Garreau, Laurent Piccolo, Alina Vlad, Andrea Resta, Julian Ledieu, Vincent Fournée, Marie-Cécile de Weerd, Frédéric-Emmanuel Picca, Marc de Boissieu, Roberto Felici, Alessandro Coati, Émilie Gaudry. From the Surface Structure to Catalytic Properties of Al5Co2(21̅0): A Study Combining Experimental and Theoretical Approaches. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (8) , 4552-4562. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b09675
Stephen C. Purdy, Pushkar Ghanekar, Garrett Mitchell, A. Jeremy Kropf, Dmitry Y. Zemlyanov, Yang Ren, Fabio Ribeiro, W. Nicholas Delgass, Jeffrey Greeley, Jeffrey T. Miller. Origin of Electronic Modification of Platinum in a Pt3V Alloy and Its Consequences for Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysis. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2020, 3 (2) , 1410-1422. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b01373
Yang Hu, Jens Oluf Jensen, Lars Nilausen Cleemann, Benedikt Axel Brandes, Qingfeng Li. Synthesis of Pt–Rare Earth Metal Nanoalloys. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (2) , 953-961. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b10813
Kelsey L. Hodge, Joshua E. Goldberger. Transition Metal-Free Alkyne Hydrogenation Catalysis with BaGa2, a Hydrogen Absorbing Layered Zintl Phase. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (51) , 19969-19972. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09856
Takayuki Kojima, Satoshi Kameoka, An-Pang Tsai. Catalytic Properties of Heusler Alloys for Steam Reforming of Methanol. ACS Omega 2019, 4 (26) , 21666-21674. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b01837
Shinya Furukawa, Mayuko Ieda, Ken-ichi Shimizu. Heterogeneous Additive-Free Hydroboration of Alkenes Using Cu–Ni/Al2O3: Concerted Catalysis Assisted by Acid–Base Properties and Alloying Effects. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (6) , 5096-5103. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b04988
Masayoshi Miyazaki, Shinya Furukawa, Tomoaki Takayama, Seiji Yamazoe, Takayuki Komatsu. Surface Modification of PdZn Nanoparticles via Galvanic Replacement for the Selective Hydrogenation of Terminal Alkynes. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2019, 2 (5) , 3307-3314. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b00761
Feng Yang, Haofei Zhao, Xiaowei Wang, Xu Liu, Qidong Liu, Xiyan Liu, Chuanhong Jin, Rongming Wang, Yan Li. Atomic Scale Stability of Tungsten–Cobalt Intermetallic Nanocrystals in Reactive Environment at High Temperature. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (14) , 5871-5879. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b00473
Carena L. Daniels, Deyny L. Mendivelso-Perez, Bryan A. Rosales, Di You, Sumit Sahu, J. Stuart Jones, Emily A. Smith, François P. Gabbaï, Javier Vela. Heterobimetallic Single-Source Precursors: A Springboard to the Synthesis of Binary Intermetallics. ACS Omega 2019, 4 (3) , 5197-5203. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b00088
Nicole J. LiBretto, Ce Yang, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Identification of Surface Structures in Pt3Cr Intermetallic Nanocatalysts. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (5) , 1597-1609. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b04774
Daniel D. Robertson, Michelle L. Personick. Growing Nanoscale Model Surfaces to Enable Correlation of Catalytic Behavior Across Dissimilar Reaction Environments. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (4) , 1121-1141. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b04595
Yunfei Wang, Du Sun, Tomojit Chowdhury, Justine S. Wagner, Thomas J. Kempa, Anthony Shoji Hall. Rapid Room-Temperature Synthesis of a Metastable Ordered Intermetallic Electrocatalyst. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (6) , 2342-2347. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b09919
Na Cheng, Ling Zhang, Shuying Mi, Hao Jiang, Yanjie Hu, Haibo Jiang, Chunzhong Li. L12 Atomic Ordered Substrate Enhanced Pt-Skin Cu3Pt Catalyst for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2018, 10 (44) , 38015-38023. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b11764
Zhenwei Wu, Brandon C. Bukowski, Zhe Li, Cory Milligan, Lin Zhou, Tao Ma, Yue Wu, Yang Ren, Fabio H. Ribeiro, W. Nicholas Delgass, Jeffrey Greeley, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Changes in Catalytic and Adsorptive Properties of 2 nm Pt3Mn Nanoparticles by Subsurface Atoms. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (44) , 14870-14877. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b08162
Junbo Zhang, Weiwei Xu, Lai Xu, Qi Shao, Xiaoqing Huang. Concavity Tuning of Intermetallic Pd–Pb Nanocubes for Selective Semihydrogenation Catalysis. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (18) , 6338-6345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b02337
Shinya Furukawa, Yukihiko Matsunami, Ikutaro Hamada, Yasushi Hashimoto, Yasushi Sato, Takayuki Komatsu. Remarkable Enhancement in Hydrogenation Ability by Phosphidation of Ruthenium: Specific Surface Structure Having Unique Ru Ensembles. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (9) , 8177-8181. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02582
Chenliang Ye, Zhenwei Wu, Wei Liu, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structure Determination of a Surface Tetragonal Pt1Sb1 Phase on Pt Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (14) , 4503-4507. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b02071
Vijaykumar S. Marakatti, Nidhi Arora, Sandhya Rai, Saurav Ch. Sarma, Sebastian C. Peter. Understanding the Role of Atomic Ordering in the Crystal Structures of NixSny toward Efficient Vapor Phase Furfural Hydrogenation. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2018, 6 (6) , 7325-7338. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b04586
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Metal Catalysts for Heterogeneous Catalysis: From Single Atoms to Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2018, 118 (10) , 4981-5079. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00776
Jared S. Mondschein, Kuldeep Kumar, Cameron F. Holder, Kriti Seth, Hojong Kim, Raymond E. Schaak. Intermetallic Ni2Ta Electrocatalyst for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction in Highly Acidic Electrolytes. Inorganic Chemistry 2018, 57 (10) , 6010-6015. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.8b00503
Takaya Ogawa, Yasukazu Kobayashi, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masaaki Kitano, Hitoshi Abe, Tomofumi Tada, Yoshitake Toda, Yasuhiro Niwa, Hideo Hosono. High Electron Density on Ru in Intermetallic YRu2: The Application to Catalyst for Ammonia Synthesis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (19) , 10468-10475. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b02128
Randall J. Meyer, Qiang Zhang, Anna Kryczka, Carolina Gomez, and Ruzica Todorovic . Perturbation of Reactivity with Geometry: How Far Can We Go?. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (1) , 566-570. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03228
Tian-Nan Ye, Yangfan Lu, Jiang Li, Takuya Nakao, Hongsheng Yang, Tomofumi Tada, Masaaki Kitano, and Hideo Hosono . Copper-Based Intermetallic Electride Catalyst for Chemoselective Hydrogenation Reactions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (47) , 17089-17097. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b08252
Qiao Wang, Fuyi Chen, Yaxing Liu, Nan Zhang, Liang An, and Roy L. Johnston . Bifunctional Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction and Borohydride Oxidation Reactions Using Ag3Sn Nanointermetallic for the Ensemble Effect. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2017, 9 (41) , 35701-35711. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b05186
Jacob S. Kanady, Peter Leidinger, Andreas Haas, Sven Titlbach, Stephan Schunk, Kerstin Schierle-Arndt, Ethan J. Crumlin, Cheng Hao Wu, and A. Paul Alivisatos . Synthesis of Pt3Y and Other Early–Late Intermetallic Nanoparticles by Way of a Molten Reducing Agent. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (16) , 5672-5675. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b01366
Junfeng Zhang, Jiao Lan, Feng Xie, Min Luo, Ming Peng, Nithyadharseni Palaniyandy, Yongwen Tan. Nanoporous copper titanium tin (np-Cu2TiSn) Heusler alloy prepared by dealloying-induced phase transformation for electrocatalytic nitrate reduction to ammonia. Journal of Colloid and Interface Science 2024, 676 , 323-330. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2024.07.125
Zhihao Feng, Lu-Hua Zhang, Fengshou Yu. Design and Application of Metal and Support Interfaces for Electrochemical CO2 Reduction Reaction. Separation and Purification Technology 2024, 345 , 127416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2024.127416
Liang-Liang Zhang, Xiao-Min Duan, Kai-Xuan Yang, Yu-Bo Xu, Jia-Ping Lu, Wan-Xi Li, Bo-Qiong Li, Cai-Long Xue, Ya-Jie Liu. Efficient and low-cost Ni-NiO/Al2O3 catalysts with dual-active-sites for selective catalytic conversion of phthalic anhydride to phthalide. Chemical Engineering Journal 2024, 497 , 154753. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.154753
Zeyu Liu, Song Yang, Yanyan Yang, Wenyao Guo, Jianfei Wang, Bixi Wang, Xin Gao, Ting Wang, Shoujun Liu, Zhongliang Yu. Efficient hydrogen production from high-concentration aqueous formic acid over bio-based γ-Mo2N catalysts. Carbon Resources Conversion 2024, 7 (3) , 100209. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crcon.2023.100209
Minghao Wang, Nannan Jiang, Bing Huang, Huihui Jin, Lunhui Guan. S-doped carbon anchoring PtCo intermetallic nanoparticles for efficient proton exchange membrane fuel cells based on molecularly engineered design. Journal of Power Sources 2024, 613 , 234859. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2024.234859
Sahil Kumar, Priyanka Choudhary, Devendra Sharma, Devanshu Sajwan, Vinit Kumar, Venkata Krishnan. Tailored Engineering of Layered Double Hydroxide Catalysts for Biomass Valorization: A Way Towards Waste to Wealth. ChemSusChem 2024, 716 https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202400737
Wenbo Zhao, Zheng Hu, Mengyao Li, Shi Hu. Asymmetrical Promotional Effect in the Disorder‐to‐Order Transition of Au‐Pt‐Cu Ternary Alloy Electrocatalysts. Advanced Functional Materials 2024, 21 https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202409481
Yuki Nakaya, Shinya Furukawa. High-entropy intermetallics: emerging inorganic materials for designing high-performance catalysts. Chemical Science 2024, 15 (32) , 12644-12666. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SC03897A
Wenlong Zhang, Yixi Chen, Zhiwei Ma, Zhongxu Sun, Jiahui Wang, Jiangtao Feng, Wei Yan, Hongjie Wang. Challenges and strategies of transition metal phosphides applied in oxygen evolution reaction of electrocatalytic water splitting: A review. Fuel 2024, 369 , 131741. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2024.131741
Xiao Man, Ying Chang, Jingchun Jia. Rare-earth-based catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction. Molecular Catalysis 2024, 565 , 114389. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2024.114389
Zhiquan Hou, Mengwei Hua, Yuxi Liu, Jiguang Deng, Xin Zhou, Ying Feng, Yifan Li, Hongxing Dai. Exploring Intermetallic Compounds: Properties and Applications in Catalysis. Catalysts 2024, 14 (8) , 538. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal14080538
Load more citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 1, 735–765
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b02603
Published December 9, 2016
Copyright © 2016 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
14k
Altmetric
11
Citations
379
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Electrochemical Energy Conversion on Intermetallic Compounds: A Review
January 15, 2019ACS Catalysis
Leonard Rößner and Marc Armbrüster*
Catalysis of Alloys: Classification, Principles, and Design for a Variety of Materials and Reactions
September 28, 2022Chemical Reviews
Yuki Nakaya and Shinya Furukawa*
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Structure of bimetallic alloys: (a) substitutional and (b) interstitial solid-solution alloys and (c) intermetallic compound. The word “alloying” suggests the formation of alloy phase (a, b, or c) or simply, the mixing of two metal elements in an atomic level.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Annual increases in the number of literature works in which titles include “catalyst” and “metallic”, “alloy”, or “intermetallic”, as determined by Web of Science searches.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Active and second metal components of catalytically active intermetallic compounds represented in the periodic table. Shaded parts indicate elements that are rarely used.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic illustration of various preparation method of intermetallic compounds. (a) Co-impregnation, (b) successive impregnation, (c) chemical vapor deposition, (d) hydride reduction, (e) polyol processsis, and (f) metallurgical alloying.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Selective Hydrogenation of Various Unsaturated Aldehydes over Pt3Sn/SnO2/rGO
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Hydrogenation of Various Nitroarenes to Aminoarenes Using RhIn/SiO2 and Rh0.75Ni0.25 Catalysts
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Reaction Mechanism of Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization and Hydrogenation Known as Horiuchi–Polanyi Mechanism
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Hydrogenation of Various Functionalized Alkynes to the Corresponding (E)-Alkenes Using Pd3Pb/SiO2 and RhSb/SiO2 Catalystsa
Scheme aConversion of alkyne, selectivity for (E)- and (Z)-alkenes, and E:Z ratio are shown.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Crystal structure of Pt3Sn with a single unit cell and (b) atomic arrangement of Pt3Sn(111) surface with a (2 × 2)-Sn structure.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Energy barrier difference (Ediff) between propylene dehydrogenation and propylene desorption over the Pt(111) and various Pt–Sn surfaces. Blue and red bars indicate pathways to 1- and 2-propenyls, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 135. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Reaction Pathways of (a) Alcohol-Based N-Alkylation and (b) Dimerization of Amine Mediated by Hydrogen-Borrowing Mechanism
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. N-Alkylation of Various Amines Using PdZn/Al2O3
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) CO conversion and (b) CH4 selectivity on Ni/SiO2 catalyst and different Si–Ni/SiO2-350 catalysts with GHSVs 48 000 mL h–1 g–1 at 1 atm. The short dash line represented thermodynamic equilibrium value. Reproduced with permission from ref 163. Copyright 2014 The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Theoretical activity volcano for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. TOF is plotted as a function of ΔEO, relative to Cu(211). ΔEO for the stepped 211 surfaces of Cu, Ni, and Pd is depicted as open black circles, and Cu+Zn is depicted in orange. ΔEO for Ni–Ga intermetallic compounds is depicted in red. Closed circles indicate nickel-rich sites, open circles gallium-rich sites, and half-open circles mixed sites. Reaction conditions are 500 K, 1 bar, and a CO2:H2 ratio of 1:3. Reprinted with permission from ref 165. Copyright 2014 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. (a) Aerobic Oxidation of Various Amines over Pd3Pb/Al2O3 Catalyst; Reaction Mechanism of Amine Oxidation over Pd3Pb Supported on (b) SiO2, (c) TiO2, Al2O3, and MgO
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. (a) Change in Catalyst Structure during the Reaction; (b) Proposed Reaction Mechanism of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to Butadiene over PdIn/SiO2: (1) Oxidative Decomposition of PdIn to Pd and In2O3, (2) Dehydrogenation of 1-Butene to 1,3-Butadiene at the Interface, (3) Reoxidation of In by O2, (4) Over-Reduction, and (5) Combustion by O2
Figure 9
Figure 9. Reaction pathways of coadsorbed CO and O2 on NaAu2(111) vs Au(221) from initial state (IS) via the intermediate complex OOCO* (MS) to final state (FS) of CO2. Transition states are TS1 and TS2. The C, O, Au, and Na are denoted by gray, red, yellow, and blue spheres, respectively. Barriers on NaAu2(111) are 0.05 eV (TS1) and 0.25 eV (TS2), compared to 0.68 and 0.32 eV on Au(221). Reprinted with permission from ref 228. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society.
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms of PROX over Pt3Co on an Oxide Support
Figure 10
Figure 10. Transformation of Pt3Zr nanoparticles from cubic to hexagonal bulk structures, resulting in activation of fuel-oxidation catalysis on the surface. Reprinted with permission from ref 33. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Proposed Reaction Network for MSR on PdZn(111) and (211) Surfaces;a Adapted with Permission from Ref 262. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society
Scheme aThe reaction barriers are given in black and red values for (111) and (211) surfaces, respectively. The CO and CO2 channels are colored in red and green, respectively.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Relationships between experimentally measured specific activity for the ORR on Pt3M surfaces in 0.1 M HClO4 at 333 K versus the d band center position for the Pt-skin surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 284. Copyright 2007 Macmillan Publishers Ltd.: Nature Materials.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Relationship between the apparent activation energy of H2–D2 equilibrium over Ni and Ni3M intermetallics and their potentials of the d band center.
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) Energy Diagram of the Electronic State of Ni–H(D) Bonding and (b) Energy Profiles of H2–D2 Equilibration over Ni and Ni3M Intermetallic Compounds
Figure 13
Figure 13. Relationship between vibrational frequencies of linearly adsorbed CO on Rh-based catalysts and their atomic charges (Hirshfeld charge) of bulk or surface Rh.
Scheme 12
Scheme 12. Quantitative Estimation of Ensemble and Ligand Effectsa
Scheme aThe red circle indicates the site of CO adsorption.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Separation of the ligand and ensemble effects from the total effect for the case of CO adsorption on hollow sites of Au/Pd(111). The number along the horizontal axes corresponds to the number of Au atoms at the hollow site. The squares, circles, and triangles correspond to total effect, ligand effect, and ensemble effect, respectively. Reproduced with permission from ref 293. Copyright 2001 PCCP Owner Societies.
Figure 15
Figure 15. STM images of PdGa:B(111) and PdGa:B(1̅1̅1̅) surfaces. Pd and Ga are indicated by cyan and red balls. Reprinted with permission from ref 294. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Calculated adsorption energies of oxygen (EO) and nitrogen (EN) atoms on various Pd-based surfaces. Optimized structures of the surfaces with oxygen atoms adsorbed on the hollow sites are shown.
Figure 17
Figure 17. Relation between rA/rD and ΔEO–N.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Selectivities to trans-alkenes during cis-stilbene and cis-β-methylstyrene isomerizations catalyzed by various SiO2-supported Rh- and Ru-based intermetallic compounds and monometallic Rh under atmospheric pressure of H2. Selectivities at 50% conversion are shown. The space group of the metallic phase appears in parentheses.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. (a) Hydrogen-Mediated Alkene Isomerization via Alkyl Intermediate; (b) Equilibrium Crystal Shape and the Corresponding Surface Atomic Arrangement of a RhSb Nanoparticle; and (c) Limited Hydrogen Access to cis-2-butene Adsorbed on RhSb(020) Plane
Figure 19
Figure 19. Relationship between the nitro hydrogenation selectivity (rNO2/rC═C) and the adsorption energy of NS on slab models with vinyl (square) or nitro (triangle) moiety. Several NS structures are shown.
Figure 20
Figure 20. Relationship between ln(3rNO2/rC═C) and ΔEad (EC═C – ENO2) for RhM/SiO2.
Figure 21
Figure 21. Phase diagram of Pt–Co system.
Figure 22
Figure 22. (a) XRD patterns of ordered and disordered carbon supported PtCu3 samples together with the representative Pm3̅m and Fm3̅m atomic arrangements, illustrated on the right. Structural analysis of partially ordered PtCu3 nanoparticles. (b) High-resolution TEM image of a single PtCu3 nanoparticle crystal oriented along the crystallographic [110] axis showing an apparent core–shell disordered–ordered structure. Averaged FFT power spectra of the (c) shell region with additional symmetry-specific Pm3̅m reflections (indicated with 110 and 001); and the (d) core Fm3̅m region without the superstructure reflections. Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.
Figure 23
Figure 23. (a) Specific activity and (b) mass activity in relation to the copper content of the electrolyte upon different electrochemical treatments (dealloying and subsequent degradation). Reproduced with permission from ref 298. Copyright 2014 PCCP Owner Societies.
Figure 24
Figure 24. Energy diagram of standard oxidation potentials of various metals. For each metal, the potential for oxidation to the divalent (Cu, Ni, Pb, Pd, Pt, Sn, Ti, and Zn) or trivalent (Bi, Ga, and Rh) cation was adopted. For antimony, the potential refers to the following reaction; SbO+ + 2H+ + 3e– = Sb(s) + H2O(l).
Figure 25
Figure 25. PdZn surface alloy on Pd(111) with bulk terminated row structure and reconstructed zigzag structure. Pd atoms are displayed in cyan, and Zn atoms are displayed in blue. Reprinted with permission from ref 333. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
Figure 26
Figure 26. Enantiomorphic structures of the chiral Cu(643)R&S surfaces. Reprinted with permission from ref 340. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society.