<quotes>
Catalysis Today 55 (2000) 311316 The Mobil Oil SOx Treatment Process (MOST). Catalytic removal of SOx and H2S from refinery tailgas
D.L. Stern , K.E. Nariman, J.S. Buchanan, N.A. Bhore, D.L. Johnson, R.K. Grasselli1

Growing concerns about the environmental impact of sulfur emissions from stationary sources, as well as recent regulatory initiatives, have prompted investigations for advanced sulfur reduction strategies. Herein, we present a novel process/catalyst combination for reducing tailgas SOx and H2S emissions to very low levels (15 ppmw).

The Mobil Oil SOx Treatment Process (MOST) consists of the following steps: (1) combustion of tailgas sulfur species to convert all sulfur species to SO2/SO3; (2) adsorption of SOx onto a high-capacity sorbent; and (3) in a separate step, reductive desorption of the sulfur as a concentrated stream of mainly SO2 and H2S.

The MOST Process utilizes a regenerable promoted spinel-based sorbent with very high SOx uptake capacities (>50 wt%), and is both robust and operationally simple. Catalyst selection, process scoping studies, and characterization to help understand the nature of the oxidative sorption and reductive regeneration steps, as well as the state of the sorbent during these steps, are described.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The Mobil Oil SOx Treatment Process (MOST) involves three main steps: combusting sulfur species in the tailgas to convert them to SO2/SO3, adsorbing the sulfur oxides onto a high-capacity sorbent, and then reductively desorbing the sulfur as a stream of SO2 and H2S. The process uses a regenerable spinel-based sorbent with high SOx uptake capacity, and is designed to be robust and easy to operate. The selection of catalysts, process optimization, and understanding of the sorption and regeneration steps are discussed.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
Mobil Oil SOx 处理过程（MOST）包含三个主要步骤：将尾气中的硫化物燃烧转化为SO2/SO3；将硫氧化物吸附到高容量吸附剂上；然后通过还原性脱附，将硫以SO2和H2S为主要成分的流体形式释放出来。该过程使用了一种再生型尖晶石基吸附剂，具有很高的硫化物吸附能力，并且设计得非常稳定且易于操作。催化剂的选择、过程优化以及理解吸附和再生步骤的过程也被讨论。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
