I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


STM characterization of size-selected V1, V2, VO, and VO2 clusters on a TiO2 (110)-(1×1) surface at room temperature Scott P. Price, Xiao Tong, Claron Ridge, Vladimir Shapovalov, Zhenpeng Hu, Paul Kemper, Horia Metiu, Michael T. Bowers, Steven K. Buratto Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106-9510, USA a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 1 November 2010 Accepted 22 February 2011 Available online 2 March 2011 Keywords: Vanadium Vanadium oxide Titanium oxide Scanning tunneling microscopy Clusters Surface structure, morphology, roughness,and topography We use ultra-high vacuum scanning tunneling microscopy (UHVSTM) to probe, at the atomic level, the structure of mass-selected isolated V1, V2, VO and VO2 clusters deposited on rutile TiO2(110) by ion soft landing. All four species interact differently with the TiO2 surface and the ultimate binding site and configuration strikes a balance between the gas-phase structure and the ligation of this cluster by the TiO2 surface. Our results show that vanadium atoms prefer to bind in the upper threefold hollow sites on the surface and have a slight tendency to pair along the [110] direction, while vanadium dimers bind to the surface oriented along the [001] direction exclusively. VO clusters bind with the vanadium atom in the upper threefold hollow site and with the oxygen atom bound to an adjacent fivefold coordinated Ti atom (5c-Ti). The VO2 cluster also binds with the vanadium atom in the upper threefold hollow site and with both oxygen atoms bound to adjacent 5c-Ti atoms or with only one oxygen bound to the surface and the other directed out of the plane of the surface. 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Vanadium oxide particles supported on TiO2 are known to catalyze a number of reactions including the selective oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde [1,2]. Detailed understanding of the composition of the active vanadia and the interaction between the vanadia and the titania support are important in providing an atomistic model for the catalytic properties of this system. To this end, a number of model catalyst studies have been carried out both experimentally [314] and theoretically [1419]. Madix and coworkers have prepared submo- nolayer films of catalytically active vanadium oxide on TiO2 by hydrolysis of VOCl3 in UHV [4,5]. Subsequent characterization of these films by XPS mainly showed vanadium in its 5+ oxidation state, but details regarding the structure of the clusters proved difficult given the size distribution [4]. Another approach adopted by several groups is to grow submonolayer vanadia films by evaporative deposition of vanadium metal in an oxygen-rich environment and/or post- oxidation of deposited vanadium clusters in an oxygen atmosphere [611]. A mixture of vanadium oxidation states was observed, with the vanadium being more highly oxidized after annealing in higher background pressures of oxygen [811]. Again, atomic level-models were not possible, given the distribution in size and composition of the clusters.
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) has also been used to provide direct visualization of vanadium and vanadia particles on single crystal CeO2 (111) [8,9] and TiO2(110)-(1×1) [1113]. For vanadium atoms and small VOx clusters deposited on CeO2(111), Freund and coworkers showed that the V atoms bind to the upper threefold hollow site. Slight oxidation of the vanadium produced isolated VO and small clusters of VOx (i.e. VO2 and VO3) arranged with a vanadyl V=O bond directed out of the plane of the surface [8,9]. Submonolayer films of metallic vanadium were deposited on TiO2(110)-(1×1) by evaporative deposition from a vanadium source [12,13], while oxides were generated by either reactive evaporation or post-oxidation [11]. In these experiments, a variety of cluster sizes and morphologies was found, indicating that a mixture of vanadia cluster compositions was deposited. This mixture made it difficult to pinpoint the exact number of vanadium and oxygen atoms in a cluster,which is crucial information for determining any atomistic model.
In an effort to gain a more detailed understanding of these model catalysts, we deposit mass-selected Vx and VxOy clusters on rutile TiO2(110)-(1×1) in ultra high vacuum (UHV). Size-selection allows us to control the exact composition of the vanadium and vanadia clusters. The cluster-decorated surfaces (0.01 ML coverage) are then characterized using STM in ordertodetermine theadsorption site andgeometry of each particular vanadium or vanadia cluster. Additional insight is gained by comparing these results with previously reported DFT structures [15,16].
This comparison allows us to build a detailed structural model of the various vanadium and vanadium oxide particles on TiO2(110).
Surface Science 605 (2011) 972976 Corresponding author. Tel.: +1 805 893 3393; fax: +1 805 893 4120.
E-mail address: buratto@chem.ucsb.edu (S.K. Buratto). 0039-6028/$  see front matter  2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.susc.2011.02.016 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Surface Science journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/ locate/susc
2. Experimental
These experiments were carried out in a UHV apparatus with a base pressure below 1×1010 Torr. TiO2(110) samples (Commercial Crystal Laboratories) were cleaned in UHV with several cycles of argon ion bombardment (1 kV) and annealing (1200 K for 10 s). Sample cleanliness was verified by STM. Immediately prior to deposition,samples were flashed to 1000 K for several seconds to ensure that surface hydroxyls were removed.
The apparatus used to generate size-selected vanadium and vanadium oxide clusters has been described previously [20] and only details relevant to these experiments are described here. The second harmonic output of a pulsed yttrium aluminum garnet (YAG) laser is focused onto a rotating, translating vanadium rod, which generates a plasma of ablated vanadium atoms. A pulse of argon is introduced into the source, resulting in plasma reactions that cause vanadium and vanadium oxide cluster growth. Positive ions are extracted, accelerated,and focused using several steering lenses before being size-selected by a magnetic-field analyzer. The ions can then be collected on a movable plate detector, where mass spectra and kinetic energy distributions for the ion beam are recorded by measuring the ion current. A mass spectrum of the vanadium ion beam is shown in Fig. 1a. Seeding the argon expansion gas with 20% oxygen yields an ion beam composed of VxOy + ions, as shown in themass spectrumin Fig. 1b. This mass spectrum agrees well with previous reports of positively-charged vanadia ion beams produced by laser ablation [21,22].
Clusters are deposited on the TiO2(110) substrate by moving the ion detector out of the path of the ion beam and then focusing and steering the beam towards the sample, which is housed in the UHV deposition chamber. During deposition, the TiO2 sample is positively biased at a voltage equal to the average ion kinetic energy that was measured on the detector. This allows the clusters to be soft-landed with incident kinetic energy between 0 and 3 eV/atom. Measuring the ion current on the sample during deposition provides an upper-bound estimate of the expected vanadium or vanadia coverage. In each of our experiments,
0.010.05 ML of size-selected vanadium clusters was deposited,
assuming a sticking probability of unity. Monolayer coverage is defined as one vanadium atom per TiO2 unit cell. Samples are characterized using STM, and the actual cluster coverage is determined from analysis of the STM data. STM imaging is carried out at room temperature using a sample bias of +1.3 to +2.1 V and a constant tunneling current of
0.2 nA. Most STM images were recorded within 20 min to several hours
following deposition, however, samples were also imaged for several days after deposition with no significant changes in the density or appearance of the clusters.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Size-selected vanadium clusters on TiO2(110)-(1×1)
STM characterization of a clean TiO2(110)-(1×1) surface shows an array of alternating bright and dark stripes, which correspond to rows of fivefold coordinated Ti atoms (5c-Ti) and bridging oxygen atoms,respectively [23]. STM images recorded after depositing V1 + are presented in Fig. 2a and b. The bright spots that appear on the rows are vanadium atoms. A large-area image (Fig. 2a) shows that the V1 atoms bind to the TiO2 surface with no preference for step edge sites and do not form large three-dimensional clusters. The low mobility and monodisperse size of these clusters indicates that the monomers do not sinter. This result was also observed for evaporatively deposited vanadium [12,13] and was attributed to the high reactivity 20 15 10 5 0 Ion Current (nA) 400 300 200 100 Mass (amu)
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
Ion Current (nA) 400 300 200 100 Mass (amu) (a) (b)
V1
V2
×20 (1,1) (1,0) (1,2) (2,4) (3,7) (3,8) (4,9)
V7
(2,6) Fig. 1. (a) Mass spectrum (0400 amu) of Vx clusters produced using an argon expansion gas, (b) mass spectrum (0400 amu) of VxOy clusters generated using an expansion gas of 20% oxygen seeded in argon. Peaks are labeled in the form (x, y), where x and y correspond to the number of vanadium and oxygen atoms, respectively, that are present in the cluster.
Fig. 2. (a) Large-area and(b) high-resolutionSTM images of V1 clusters onTiO2(110). Inthe high-resolution image, the circled cluster is an individual vanadium monomer, while the coffee-bean shaped feature (labeled with a square) is a pair of monomers along the [110] direction. (c) Top-view model showing the binding site of a single vanadium monomer on the titania surface. This is also the lowest-energy DFT structure calculated for V1 on TiO2 in Ref. [15]. (d) Top-view model of a pair of vanadium monomers exhibiting the coffee-bean structure. In these models, the silver, red, and green spheres correspond to titanium,oxygen, and vanadium atoms, respectively. The labels OBr and 5c-Ti denote the locations of the bridging oxygen and fivefold coordinated titanium rows, respectively, in the model. 973
S.P. Price et al. / Surface Science 605 (2011) 972976
of vanadium with the titania surface [12]. The vanadium monomers appear slightly elongated (9 Å) in the [001] direction and are 1.7 Å in height, indicating that the features are one atomic layer tall [12,13].
The elongation of vanadium clusters along the [001] direction of the TiO2(110) surface has also been observed by Agnoli and coworkers,where vanadium clusters appeared 1015 Å long [12]. The high- resolution image of Fig. 2b shows two types of features: isolated V atoms (marked with a circle) and coffee bean-shaped structures formed by pairs of vanadium monomers aligned along the [110] direction (marked with a square). These are the only types of features that resulted from the deposition of vanadium atoms.
All isolated V1 features (depicted within the circle of Fig. 2b) are positioned between the 5c-Ti and bridging oxygen rows. This is consistent with the structural model proposed by Asaduzzaman and Kruger [15] in which the vanadium atoms are bound to the upper threefold hollow sites between the 5c-Ti and bridging oxygen rows. A model showing the binding of a V atom to this site is shown in Fig. 2c.
This assignment is also consistent with previous STM results where the vanadium was deposited using an evaporation source [12]. The bonding of the vanadium to these three oxygen atoms, coupled with DFT calculations showing that the vanadium atom transfers electrons to its neighboring oxygen atoms [15], suggests that this electronic effect is responsible for the observed elongation of the vanadium clusters in our work and in the work of Agnoli et al. [12]. For pairs of V1 atoms oriented along [110] (the coffee-bean shape depicted within the square of Fig. 2b), both vanadium atoms are located in upper threefold hollow sites and are separated by a bridging oxygen row, as shown in the model presented in Fig. 2d. The distance between vanadium atoms measured by STM is 4.0 Å, which is 2.3 times longer than the VV bond length in gas-phase V2 [24], suggesting that these are two individualV monomers,rather than dimeric vanadium.
The coffee bean-like features we attribute to V-atom pairs are similar to those which were previously reported for evaporatively deposited vanadium [12]. However, in the work of Agnoli et al. [12], clusters elongated in the [001] direction were also observed. The fraction of clusters paired along [001] is small but significant. Statistical analysis carried out in the work of Agnoli, et al. showed that 81% of the observed clusters were single monomers, 15% were pairs of atoms along [110],and 4% were pairs of atoms along [001] [12]. Excluding the features paired along [001], 84% of the clusters were isolated and 16% exhibited the coffee-bean structure. In our experiments, we observe a different distribution of features. Upon deposition of size-selected vanadium monomer, a statistical analysis of 21 images similar to that shown in Fig. 2a exhibits a distribution where 45% of the features are isolated monomers and 55% of the features are pairs of atoms along [110].
Based on our observed coverage of 0.01 monolayer, we would expect very few pairs of clusters to appear randomly. Clearly, the vanadium monomers have a greater tendency to pair along [110] in the present study. We attribute this tothe mobilityof theV atomsdue totheirexcess kinetic energy (between 0 and 3 eV) upon impact with the surface. It is important to note that the pairing of the vanadium monomers in this way was not predicted by DFT calculations discussed in the work of Asaduzzaman and Kruger [15]. In the work of Asaduzzaman and Kruger [15], the vanadium monomers were predicted to repel one another due to their high positive charges resulting from electron transfer into the surface. Clearly the experimental data of Fig. 2 and Agnoli, et al. [12] do not confirm this prediction, but instead suggest a propensity for the monomers to pair along the [110] direction. This pairing implies that the magnitude of electron transfer from the vanadium atoms to the surface is much smaller than predicted by DFT calculations.
Fig. 3a shows a large-area image of V2 + clusters deposited on titania.
Again, clusters are distributed evenly across the terraces, with no preference for a specific type of adsorption site. The high-resolution image presented in Fig. 3b indicates that the V2 clusters are symmetrically positioned over the bridging oxygen rows. This is the only shape and binding site observed for V2 clusters in our experiments.
The V2 clusters appear as ovals of length 13 Å along [001] and height of
1.7 Å. The deposited V2 cluster is completely different than the two-
atom clusters that form after deposition of size-selected V1. The obvious differences between the V2 clusters on the TiO2(110) surface and the two types of features observed for V1 atoms on the surface indicate that these two species bind differently to the surface. Based on these STM observations, we propose that the vanadium dimer is oriented along a bridging oxygen row as shown in Fig. 3c. The cluster is located between two bridging oxygen atoms with both vanadium atoms bound to their respective nearest-neighbor bridging oxygen atom.
It is interesting to note that the images of the V2 in Fig. 3b clusters have a very similar appearance to the paired clusters oriented along [001] that resulted from the evaporative deposited of vanadium onto titania in the work of Agnoli, et al. [12]. Since we only see pairs of V atoms oriented along the [110] direction and since we only see V dimers oriented along [001] direction, Agnoli, et al., most likely have a mixture of V1 and V2 emanating from their evaporation source. This is consistent with the work of Kant, et al., which has shown that dimers are readily formed in vanadium effusion sources [25]. Additional work by the Armentrout group has also shown that large vanadium clusters break up preferentially into vanadium dimers upon exposure to reactive gas [26], a result that supports dimer emission from an evaporative source. The presence of dimeric vanadium emanating from effusion sources provides a further explanation for the difference in the relative concentration of coffee-bean features in our work (where 100% of the clusters in the mass selected source are V1) compared to the work of Agnoli, et al.
3.2. Size-selected vanadium oxide clusters on TiO2(110)-(1×1)
Fig. 4a shows an STM image of the titania surface after deposition of size-selected VO+. As with V2, VO remains intact upon adsorption, does not sinter, and binds to the TiO2 surface without any preference for step- edge sites. A higher resolution image (Fig. 4b) indicates that these clusters are positioned between the titanium and bridging oxygen rows.
The asymmetric positioning of the cluster suggests that the vanadium atom in the VO cluster is bound to a threefold hollow site, similar to the Fig. 3. (a) Large-area and (b) high-resolution STM images of V2 clusters supported on TiO2(110). (c) Top-view model showing a V2 cluster bound to the TiO2 surface. Silver, red,and green spheres correspond to titanium, oxygen, and vanadium atoms, respectively. 974
S.P. Price et al. / Surface Science 605 (2011) 972976
binding site for vanadium atoms, and the oxygen atom binds to a 5c-Ti atom making the cluster planar. A top-view model and a three- dimensional side-view model showing the binding of the cluster to the titania surface are shown in Fig. 4c and d, respectively. It is interesting to note that this model is identical to the lowest-energy DFT structure for VO on TiO2, as described by Shapovalov, et al. [16]. The VO clusters have a length of 10 Å in the [001] direction and are 1.7 Å tall. Although the height of the VO cluster is the same as that of a V monomer, the VO cluster is slightly longer along [001]. The elongation of the VO cluster is attributed to the binding of the oxygen atom to a 5c-Ti, as shown in the model in Fig. 4c.
Fig. 5a shows a large-area image of VO2 clusters deposited on titania. The high-resolution image presented in Fig. 5b indicates that the VO2 clusters are asymmetrically positioned over the 5c-Ti rows.
The VO2 cluster is 1.7 Å tall and 14 Å long in the [001] direction. The only observed difference between VO and VO2 clusters on TiO2(110) is the degree of elongation along [001], which is much greater for the VO2 clusters. Based on this, we constructed a model (Fig. 5c and d) showing the binding of a VO2 cluster to the titania surface. In this model, the vanadium atom (green) is positioned in the upper threefold hollow site and both oxygen atoms (dark blue) are bound to neighboring 5c-Ti atoms. This was also calculated to be a low- energy structure using DFT. Although the lowest-energy DFT structure for VO2 on TiO2(110) involves the vanadium atom sitting in an upper threefold hollow site with one oxygen atom bound to a neighboring 5c-Ti atom and the other oxygen pointing out of the plane of the surface [16], this structure is only 0.25 eV lower in energy than that presented in the model in Fig. 5c and d. The height of the cluster and elongation along [001] indicates that the slightly higher-energy structure in the DFT calculations [16] is observed experimentally.
These results differ somewhat from those reported by Agnoli and coworkers for reactive evaporation and post-oxidation vanadia depositions. Reactive evaporation mainly yielded vanadia clusters which were symmetrically positioned over the 5c-Ti rows. These clusters varied in length along [001], leading the authors to suggest that both monomeric and dimeric vanadia were formed [11]. It is reasonable that vanadia monomers and dimers would be observed after reactive evaporation, considering the evidence we have outlined here suggesting that a mixture of metallic monomer and dimer clusters are emitted from the effusion source. Post-oxidation resulted in a variety of features; some clusters were symmetrically positioned over the 5c-Ti rows, while others were still located between the Ti and bridging oxygen rows. This result was attributed to incomplete oxidation of the vanadium during the post-oxidation [11]. Because DFT calculations suggest that VO3 is formed when a V-decorated TiO2 surface is exposed to oxygen [16], it is possible that the clusters positioned symmetrically over the 5c-Ti rows in Agnoli, et al., are VO3 and other highly oxidized species (including dimers). The clusters which are located between the Ti and bridging oxygen rows following post-oxidation are likely a mixture of V, VO, VO2, and dimers with low oxygen content. This is supported by XPS evidence showing that post- oxidation results in a variety of vanadium oxidation states [3,10].
4. Conclusions
We have deposited size-selected V1, V2, VO, and VO2 clusters on TiO2(110) and determined their preferred adsorption sites using STM.
V1, VO, and VO2 clusters are centered asymmetrically over the 5c-Ti rows and have varying lengths along the [001] direction where the length of V1bVObVO2. V2 clusters appear symmetrically positioned over the bridging oxygen row. Comparison of the STM results to DFT calculations has allowed us to determine an atomistic model for these structures. PerformingSTMstudies on size-selected clustershas allowed us to determine that evaporative deposition of vanadium results in a mixture of monomers and dimers, while reactive evaporation and post- Fig. 4. (a) Large-area and (b) high-resolution STM images of VO clusters supported on TiO2(110). (c) Top-view and (d) side-view models showing the binding site of the VO cluster on the titania surface. The silver and light blue spheres correspond to titanium atoms, red spheres are oxygen atoms, the green sphere is a vanadium atom, and the dark blue sphere is the oxygen atom in the VO cluster. The model shown in (c) and (d) is also identical to the lowest-energy DFT structure for VO on TiO2 from Ref. [16].
Fig. 5. (a) Large-area and (b) high-resolution STM images of VO2 clusters deposited on TiO2(110). (c) Top-view and (d) side-view models showing the binding site of a VO2 cluster on the titania surface. The silver and light blue spheres correspond to titanium atoms, red spheres are oxygen atoms, the green sphere is vanadium, and the two dark blue spheres are the oxygen atoms in the VO2 cluster. The model presented in (c) and (d) is also a low-energy DFT structure for the VO2/TiO2 system. 975
S.P. Price et al. / Surface Science 605 (2011) 972976
oxidation methods for preparing thin vanadia films likely results in a mixture of cluster compositions.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 