Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
Bimetallic palladium catalysts: inﬂuence of the
co-metal on the catalyst performance
Bernard Coq a,∗, François Figueras b
a Laboratoire de Matériaux Catalytiques et Catalyse en Chimie Organique, UMR 5618 ENSCM-CNRS,
8, Rue de l’Ecole Normale, 34296 Montpellier, France
b Institut de Recherche sur la Catalyse, 2 Avenue Albert Einstein, 69626 Villeurbanne, France
Abstract
An overview about the effect of co-metal on the performance of Pd in bimetallic catalysts is presented. In the ﬁrst part, the
promotion of monometallic catalysts by addition of a second metal is described from a general point of view in terms of: (i)
electronic effects; (ii) geometric effects; (iii) the occurrence of mixed sites; and (iv) the disappearance of the -PdH phase.
The second part presents the main methods to prepare bimetallic catalysts through the unselective and selective depositions of
the co-metal precursor and the use of heterobinuclear complexes. The inﬂuence of preparation methods on the chemical state
and the spatial distribution of both components are highlighted. In the last part, a short overview is given about the inﬂuence
of co-metal addition on some important reactions in which Pd is the reference active phase: (i) selective hydrogenation of
highly unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons; (ii) hydrogenation of aromatics or hydrodearomatisation; (iii) hydrogenation of
nitrogen-containing compounds; (iv) reactions involving CO; and (v) hydrodechlorination. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All
rights reserved.
Keywords: Hydrogenation; Palladium; Bimetallics; Alloying; Hydrogenation of alkynes; Hydrogenation of aromatics; Thioresistance; C–Cl
hydrogenolysis; Hydrogenation of CO; Hydrogenation of N-containing compounds
1. Introduction
The ﬁrst clear realization that chemical reaction be-
tween two gaseous reactants can occur at a metal sur-
face, without the latter being chemically unchanged,
is due to Humphrey Davy in 1817 (see [1,2] for a
brief historical survey). In experiments for the devel-
opment of miner’s safety-lamp, Davy observed that a
Pt wire remained hot without ﬂame in the presence of
coal-gas and air. Davy deduced that the coal-gas and
air combined without ﬂame when in contact with the
hot Pt surface. Only Pt and Pd wires were effective.
∗Corresponding author. Tel.: +33-4-6714-4395;
fax: +33-4-6714-4349.
E-mail address: coq@cit.enscm.fr (B. Coq).
This is probably the ﬁrst report of a catalytic activity
on a Pd surface. A second breakthrough by the end
of the 19th and early 20th centuries was the extensive
Sabatier’s works on hydrogenation of several organic
and inorganic substrates on a wide variety of powdered
metal catalysts among them Pd. The beneﬁt brought by
“alloying” two active metals, or an inactive with an ac-
tive one, was early recognized, and systematic studies
were carried out between the ﬁrst and the second world
wars. From the ﬁrst ﬁnding about stabilization of Pt
gauzes in the NH3 oxidation by adding Pd, some of the
best achievements in catalysis by alloying metals can
be found in the reﬁning industry with the very classical
reforming Pt-based catalysts promoted by Ir, Re, Ge,
Sn, . . . and selective hydrogenations in petrochem-
istry with promotion of Pd with Sn, Au, Cu, Pb, . . . .
1381-1169/01/$ – see front matter © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S1381-1169(01)00148-0
118
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
At the beginning, the behavior of alloys catalysts
was interpreted by both the electronic theory of catal-
ysis and the Rigid Band Theory (RBT) of alloys. The
former stated that molecules are activated during the
adsorption process by either releasing or accepting
one electron, whilst the latter postulated that the num-
ber of d-band holes could be decreased by alloying
a metal containing more valence electrons, from an
electron transfer. Actually, the interpretation of the al-
loying effect has been found much more complicated
later, though this initial concept remained still ever
stimulating.
It is ﬁrst necessary to precise what we are meaning
when using the terminology of “alloy”. Taking the
proposition of Ponec and Bond [1], we will adopt this
term to describe “. . . any metallic system containing
two or more components, irrespective of their inti-
macy of mixing or the precise manner in which their
atoms are disposed . . . ”. On that account, alloys can
be formed from a metal and a clearly non-metal, i.e.
Pd and B or Si, or two metals forming a continuous
series of solid solutions over the whole concentration
range, i.e. PdAg. This deﬁnition of “alloys” catalysts
being settled, the alloying effect, promotion of the
catalytic properties of one metal by addition of a
second component, enters in the general frame of the
“structure-activity” relationships.
It was shown that a large number of reactions
exists for which the rate per unit of catalyst area de-
pends on the superﬁcial structure of a catalyst with a
given chemical composition. This general concept of
“structure-sensitivity” was particularly fruitful in the
ﬁeld of catalysis by metals. Depending on whether
the turnover frequency (TOF), or rate per unit sur-
face area or per accessible metal atom, is affected or
not by the metallic structure the reactions have been
called “facile” or “demanding” [3], or later on by
the terms structure-insensitive or structure-sensitive
[4]. The ﬁrst to recognize this concept was Taylor
in 1925 [5] who said: “. . . the amount of surface
which is catalytically active is determined by the
reaction catalyzed. There will be all extremes be-
tween the case in which all the atoms in the surface
are active and that in which relatively few are so
active. . . ”.
Generally speaking, superﬁcial metallic structure
refers to the coordination number between the active
metal atoms which can be modiﬁed [1]: (i) by exposing
different crystallographic planes at the surface and
making them imperfect by means of steps and kinks;
(ii) by varying particle size in the critical range be-
tween 1 and 5 nm; (iii) by alloying the active metal
with a second component; or (iv) by induction of a
strong metal-support interaction with some supports.
Each of these situations has been the subject of re-
views, in particular the alloying effect in catalysis [6].
Albeit this separation seems somehow arbitrary, and
could be criticized, there is more or less a general
agreement to explain these structure-activity relation-
ships with the help of geometric and electronic effects
(vide infra).
In any case, understanding the alloying effect would
require the best possible knowledge for the following
points: (i) what is the chemical state of the two com-
ponents? (ii) are the two elements intimately interact-
ing in the same aggregates or not? (iii) does surface
segregation of one component occur? (iv) are the two
elements randomly distributed in the surface layer or
not? The ﬁrst and second points mainly address to the
method used for preparing the catalysts and will be
discussed in more details later (vide infra). The third
question to be asked concerns the surface composition
in bimetallic particles. The occurrence of segregation
to the surface of one component of an alloy is now
well established, as well as its inﬂuence on the cat-
alytic properties (see [1]). Finally, on small particles
(1–2 nm), surface atoms tend to represent the majority
of the atoms of the particle and the surface enrichment
looses meaning. Nevertheless, on these small aggre-
gates the surface contains sites of different topologies:
low index planes, kinks, edges, corners, etc. The dis-
tribution of the different components of the bimetal-
lic particles could be ordered, and one component
would occupy sites of a given topology preferentially
[7–10].
It will be the aim of this review to look at the
effect of the presence of a second component in
Pd-based heterogeneous catalysts at the light of the
above considerations. Alterations of the catalytic
properties of Pd will be discussed in the frame of
electronic and geometric effects, with respect to
the different methods by which the alloy catalysts
could be prepared. Some examples will be chosen
to highlight these behaviors. This review will be re-
stricted to Pd-based catalysts operating in a reductive
atmosphere.
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
119
2. Electronic and geometric effects in
catalysis by metals
As mentioned above, the structure-activity relation-
ships are often explained on the basis of electronic
and/or geometric effects. However, geometric and
electronic inﬂuences cannot often be separated as
independent parameters. For instance, increasing the
size of metallic particles results in an electron band-
width increase and a decrease of binding energies of
core electron, but the nature of the exposed planes
and the topology of the surface sites change as well.
Nowadays, the debate between the electronic and ge-
ometric factors is only seen of historical interest in
catalysis.
Moreover, we have to take care of a simple view of
a geometric basis for explaining structure-sensitivity.
There is the possibility, under high temperature con-
ditions, or very reactive atmospheres, that surface mo-
bility smoothes out geometric and structural features
on small particles. This concept of ﬂexible surface,
mainly revealed by Somorjai [11], as well as the cor-
relation between reactivity and restructuring ability
appears extremely puzzling, though fruitful. This is
particularly true with reactants induced segregation.
This phenomenon of surface layer reconstructing is
not only restricted to high temperature treatment in re-
active atmosphere but can also occur under mild con-
ditions in reactions carried out in the liquid phase. By
measurement of the catalysts potential [12], Bodnar
et al. [13] have shown that metal promoters, deposited
as Ge4+, Pb2+, Cu2+ and Sn2+ on the surface layer of
Pd particles, can be found as bulk metal, adatoms or
remain as ions after reduction in liquid phase. The pre-
vailing phase depends on the reaction conditions and
the substrate to be hydrogenated. As an example, Ge
in Ge-promoted Pd/C will remain the same after the
pre-reduction and hydrogenation of cinnamyl alcohol,
mainly as Ge0, whilst it will transform into GeO2, and
then be leached to the solution, upon hydrogenation
of nitrobenzene.
2.1. Electronic effect in catalysis by alloys
To be short, the key point in this model lies in the
interaction between the d-band orbitals of the surface
sites with the molecular orbitals of reactants and prod-
ucts. Historically, the premises of this concept were
Fig. 1. Rate for C2H4 hydrogenation on some metal wires relative
to Rh [15].
suggested by Sabatier [14], who said that the interme-
diate compound formed by one reactant at the surface
must be stable enough to be formed but not too stable
since it must decompose to yield the products. This
can be correlated with the heat of adsorption of reac-
tants and products, governed by the electronic factors,
which should be neither too strong nor too weak to
give the optimum coverage for species competing at
the surface, or for the products to desorb. The ammo-
nia synthesis, competition between N2, H2 and NH3,
and the selective hydrogenation of unsaturated hydro-
carbons, competition between H2 and hydrocarbons,
are good examples for that. This is illustrated for the
hydrogenation of ethylene on metal wires (Fig. 1); the
rate is maximum for Rh, for which the heat of ad-
sorption of ethylene provides the optimum coverage
in C2H4 and H2.
It was early believed that an electron was transferred
in the chemisorption process from the reactant to the
metal surface, or the reverse. This proposition allows
to understand the popularity of the RBT of alloys in
which the d-band holes of one metal are ﬁlled by the
valence electrons of a second metal. The valence shell
electronic conﬁguration of Pd in atomic form is of
4d105s0 type; in metallic Pd, approx. 0.36 electrons of
the d-shell are in the s-band. This leaves an equivalent
number of holes in the d-band. The ﬁlling of the 4d
shell on alloying can therefore arise either by a ﬂow
of charge from s-band of Pd or a charge transfer from
a second component. Actually, it was recognized later
that: (i) the chemisorption bond on metal is covalent
for the main; and (ii) the extent of electron transfer
from one component to the other upon alloying is very
small, if so. Nevertheless, the degree of electronic
interaction between valence electrons of the two
120
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
components in alloys depends on the enthalpy of for-
mation Hf, it will be low if Hf is positive, but
strong if Hf is negative (see [1] for more details).
In an extensive study about the electronic proper-
ties of Pd alloyed with 20 elements as Mg, transitions
metals, lanthanides and actinides, Fuggle et al. [16]
concluded that (i) in alloys with electropositive ele-
ments the Pd d-band is ﬁlled and moved away from
the Fermi level with narrowing of the d-band width;
(ii) as the electronegativity difference between the el-
ements is decreased there is a greater overlap in the
band energies of Pd and second metal; (iii) the ﬁlling
of bands is largely due to changes in the hybridiza-
tion of the Pd d-band, and the actual charge transfer
of Pd d electrons is probably small. XPS studies of
Pd80Ge20 glassy alloys also showed strong modiﬁca-
tions of the Pd d-band, which is ﬁlled in the alloys
[17]. This was not due to charge transfer from Ge
to Pd, but to intra-atomic charge transfer from 5s to
4d orbitals of Pd. The reverse was reported when Zn
was vapor-deposited on a Pd surface [18]. The XPS
experiments provided evidences that redistribution of
charge occurred in Pd with shift from 4d to 5s orbitals,
which strengthened the Pd–Zn bimetallic bond. Ab
initio SCF calculations on Pd3Zn10 clusters reached
the same conclusions: small charge transfer between
Pd and Zn but redistribution of charge from 4d to
5s Pd levels. From quantum chemical calculations on
Pd1Cu12 and Pd4Cu6 clusters, Fernandez-Garcia et al.
[19] proposed a similar scheme for an intra-atomic
charge redistribution from 4d to 5sp states at Pd sites.
Surface Pd atoms became slightly negatively charged.
This electronic modiﬁcation of Pd would be in agree-
ment with XANES experiments on PdCu/KL-zeolite
catalysts [20]. These results disagree with the interpre-
tation of IR-CO experiments on PdCu/Al2O3 [21], and
XPS experiments on PdCu/Pumice [22], from which
no electronic modiﬁcation of Pd by Cu was claimed,
but only a dilution of Pd surface. These few exam-
ples emphasize the great variety of situations for elec-
tronic modiﬁcations upon alloying Pd with a second
component. The electronic interpretation of alloying
effect was then forsaken at the beneﬁt of geometric
considerations, i.e. dilution of the active sites. Any-
way, even if there are clear evidences that the extent
of electron transfer is generally low upon alloying,
the consequence of dilution of the active metal into
smaller ensembles by a second component is the ap-
pearance of discrete levels in the valence band and in
many cases the rehybridization of the orbitals.
In any case, if one wishes to put in evidence elec-
tronic effects in catalysis by alloys, it is necessary to
consider reactions in which the geometric effects are
of small importance, i.e. those known as occurring on
a site of small size (vide infra). This is the case for the
hydrogenation of alkenes, alkynes and alkadienes.
Electronic modiﬁcations upon alloying Pd was in-
voked to interpret the better selectivity observed in
the selective hydrogenation of alkadienes and alkynes
to alkenes [23]. For instance, in the hydrogenation
of 1,3-butadiene and 1-butene on Pd-based catalysts,
Sarkany et al. reported that the rate of n-butane forma-
tion was suppressed to a greater extent than was the
consumption of 1,3-butadiene when Pd was alloyed
with Zn [24] or Co [25]. This was ascribed to a de-
crease in the strength of butene and butadiene com-
plexation. This behavior can be illustrated by Fig. 2.
As discussed above about the electronic factors in
catalysis by metals, the maximum of catalytic activ-
ity is expected for an optimum strength of adsorption,
neither too strong nor too weak. This was exempliﬁed
in the case of ethene hydrogenation on Group VIII
metals (Fig. 1). The same concept applies by choos-
ing a catalyst and changing the reactant within an ho-
mologue family (Fig. 2). In that case, alkyne are too
strongly bonded to react fast enough. The challenge
is to ﬁne-tune the properties of the metal phase to de-
crease the strength of adsorption of the alkyne, so that
it reacts faster. In this frame, the alkene will be less re-
active and a higher selectivity to this target compound
will be achieved more easily according to the consecu-
tive formal reaction scheme: alkyne (or alkadiene) →
alkene →alkane.
2.2. Geometric effect
The ﬁrst element of this model lies in the pioneer-
ing works from Kobozev [27], Poltorak and Boronin
[28]. They showed that some reactions need more
than one surface atom to proceed. Moreover, a spe-
ciﬁc arrangement between these atoms will be even re-
quired to generate the active site [29]. This geometric
model was more recently revisited by several authors
[30–32], naming it as “ensemble-size” model. The ba-
sic idea is that the rate is function of the probability
to ﬁnd an ensemble of n free and neighbor atoms on
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
121
Fig. 2. Relative rate of alkene, alkadiene and alkyne hydrogenations as a function of the heat of adsorption on Pd catalysts [26].
which the adsorption of the reactant(s), and the further
transformations, can occur. In the illustration of Fig. 3,
the hydrogenolysis of ethane needs several neighbor
metal atoms to accommodate the multi-bonded HCC∗
reactive intermediate and the ﬁve H∗abstracted, 12
on Ni catalysts according to Dalmon and Martin [32];
in contrast the reactive adsorption of ethylene could
proceed on a single atom.
Since the simple and attractive hypothesis of RBT
in alloys has failed to stand the test of time, the
“ensemble-size” model became very helpful to inter-
pret the behavior of alloys. When applied to alloys
between an active component A and an inactive one
B, the sensemble-size model in its simplest form re-
ﬂects the dilution in ensembles of smaller size of the
active surface A by B; these smaller ensembles of A
being less prone to activate the reactant(s). The im-
mediate consequence of this phenomenon is a sharp
decrease of the turn over frequency (TOF). The TOF
Fig. 3. Schematic representation of the ensemble size required for
the hydrogenolysis of C2H6 and the hydrogenation of C2H4.
is the number of molecules transformed per unit time
and per surface metal atom A; the number of surface
metal atom being titrated by hydrogen chemisorption
for instance. Concurrently to the TOF decrease, no
modiﬁcation of the kinetic parameters, activation en-
ergy, enthalpies of adsorption and entropy changes,
should occur. Obviously, the fall of TOF should be
all the more so that preferential segregation to the
surface of the inactive component B occurs. In the
classical treatment of diluting an inﬁnite surface A by
B, the probability to ﬁnd an ensemble of neighboring
n A atoms is given by [1,33,34]:
P = (1 −θB)n
θB : surface coverage by B
(1)
This ideal relationship is true when A and B are
randomly distributed on an inﬁnite surface. The situa-
tion becomes more complicated when the distribution
of A and B is not random. Upon alloying A and B if
Hf is positive the components tend to form clusters,
at variance when Hf is negative ordering prevails.
Random distribution of A and B is favored when Hf
is slightly negative.
Another limitation to the ideality represented by
Eq. (1) is the ﬁnite size of metal particles in real cat-
alysts [34]. Moreover, the surface of small metal par-
ticles are composed of sites with different topologies:
low index planes, kinks, edges, corners, etc. The dis-
tribution of the different components of the bimetallic
particles could be ordered, and one component would
occupy sites of a given topology preferentially [10,35].
This was demonstrated by Monte-Carlo calculations
for Pt alloyed with Cu, Ag or Au [36], and by the
122
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
Density Functional Theory calculations for Rh alloyed
with Ge, Sn or Pb [10]. Such a behavior was suggested
to occur also in PdRh/Al2O3 where Pd would oc-
cupy preferentially the low coordination sites in PdRh
bimetallic particles [37].
A very efﬁcient approach to probe the dilution of
A by B is the IR-monitored chemisorption of CO
[1]. This is a particular powerful tool in the case of
Pd-based catalysts. The IR spectrum of CO adsorbed
on reduced Pd surface exhibits two intense bands in the
range 2100–2050 and 2000–1800 cm−1. The former is
ascribed to various forms of linearly adsorbed CO on
Pd atoms, and the latter to CO bridging two or more
adjacent Pd atoms. The dilution of Pd by an inactive
component can be put in evidence by (i) a shift of υCO
to lower values; and (ii) a decrease of the relative in-
tensity of bands corresponding to bridged species [1].
This was ﬁrst clearly demonstrated by Soma-Noto and
Sachtler [38] on supported PdAg alloys. Moreover, a
very elegant method, adsorption of 12CO/13CO mix-
ture, allows to discriminate in the υCO shift what is
due to dilution effect and what comes from ligand ef-
fect (electronic effect) [39].
PdCu system is a typical example where IR-CO
experiments were applied with success. The ﬁrst and
main conclusion was a dilution of Pd by Cu in a ran-
dom fashion [20,21,40–43]. However, on PdCu/SiO2
catalysts prepared from mixed acetylacetonate precur-
sors it was further postulated that the Cu atoms are
preferentially located on the edges of the small crystals
and (or) on the (1 0 0) open faces, rather on the (1 1 1)
facets [42]. This idea of preferential migration of Cu
on low coordination sites will be supported by ion
scattering spectroscopy on various PdCu alloys [44],
theoretical studies on PdCu single crystals [45] and
cubo-octaedral aggregates [46]. Moreover, the absence
of any υCO shift at low 12CO coverage in 12CO/13CO
IR experiments on Pd and PdCu alloys was interpreted
as a very low ligand effect in this system [39]. How-
ever, from XANES and IR-CO experiments [20] and
quantum chemical calculations [19], it was claimed
that an intra-atomic charge redistribution between 4d
and 5s states of Pd occurs upon alloying with Cu.
2.3. Mixed-sites
It is somehow difﬁcult to give an unequivocal deﬁ-
nition of the mixed-sites. One can tentatively propose
Fig. 4. Schematic representation of the activation of the C=O bond
in ,-unsaturated carbonyls on Pd–Mx+.
that a mixed-site is an active site where both compo-
nents of the alloys participate in the catalytic transfor-
mation. In some cases, such a site can show a higher
catalytic activity than any of the pure metals, without
real alteration of the individual electronic properties.
This situation can be illustrated in alloys between two
transition metals: a better catalytic activity was pro-
posed for C2H6 hydrogenolysis in mixed Pd–Ni sites
composed of six Ni atoms diluted in the Pd matrix
[47].
Very interesting also is the case of Pd-promoter in
which the promoter is not fully reduced in the running
conditions of the reaction. In this situation, mixed-site
can be described as Pd–Mx+. Synergistic effects in
such sites have been claimed to occur during the liquid
phase hydrogenation of ,-unsaturated aldehydes, al-
though Pd was not the commonly used active metal
for this reaction [1,48]; this is illustrated in Fig. 4.
The promotion effect is due to a positively charged
cationic species Mx+ activating the C=O bond, which
becomes easily hydrogenated. The building of this
mixed-site is very similar to what is occurring in the
well-known strong metal support interaction (SMSI)
[49]. SMSI occurs when Pt, Pd, Rh, . . . deposited on
some reducible supports, TiO2, Nb2O5, . . . are re-
duced at high temperature. There is a partial reduction
of the support, e.g. TiO2, with the migration of TiOx
adspecies onto the surface of metallic particles. This
phenomenon leads to a dilution of the metal surface
(Pt, Pd, . . . ) into smaller ensembles, and the creation
of mixed-sites Pd-(TiOx)δ+. Some electronic modiﬁ-
cations of the noble metal have also been claimed [49].
2.4. The problem of the β-PdH phase
A peculiar behavior of Pd concerns its ability to
form hydride phases, which could explain to some ex-
tent the catalytic properties in hydrogenation of un-
saturated hydrocarbons [50]. The solubility isotherms
and X-ray results clearly show the existence of two
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
123
solid solutions, named  and , under normal condi-
tions [51]. The latter tends to disappear as the size of
Pd particles decreases to the nanometer scale [52–54].
The presence of -PdH phase in the catalyst consid-
erably increases the acetylene hydrogenation rate to
ethane, and is concurrently accompanied by a low se-
lectivity to ethylene [53]. The decomposition of the
-PdH phase results in a sharp increase toward the
ethylene selectivity, and electronic effects were mainly
accounted for the interpretation of these behaviors.
Upon incorporation of a second metal such as Cu [55],
Sn or Pb [56], and its diffusion into the bulk due to
appropriate thermal treatments, the suppression of the
-PdH phase was postulated for supported bimetallic
catalyst. In both cases, in parallel to the disappear-
ance of -PdH there was a decrease of the TOF for
the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene on PdCu [55], and
of isoprene on PdSn and PdPb catalysts [56]. There
was also a concurrent increase for the selectivity to
alkenes.
2.5. Some comments
It comes out that the inﬂuence of co-metal on the Pd
performances can be interpreted in terms of geomet-
ric or electronic effects, the occurrence of mixed-sites
and the disappearance of -PdH. On the other hand,
it is well known that some classes of reactions are
more or less sensitive to some of these factors. For in-
stance, the electronic factors play a deﬁnite role in the
selective hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons,
whilst geometric considerations are prevailing in the
hydrogenolysis of alkanes; besides, the occurrence of
mixed-sites is a dominating factor in the selective hy-
drogenation of ,-unsaturated aldehydes to unsatu-
rated alcohols. As a consequence, for a given catalytic
formulation, i.e. Pd–Sn, interpretation of the Sn inﬂu-
ence on Pd properties depends directly on the reaction
considered.
As above-mentioned it is worth noting that the in-
ﬂuence of co-metal on Pd performances will be cru-
cially affected by (i) the degree of intimate interaction
between the two components in the same aggregates;
and (ii) the chemical state of the co-metal. In the fol-
lowing section, we will give an outlook on the ways
by which the different methods used to synthesize the
catalysts could affect these factors. Finally, a last sec-
tion will provide a short overview about the inﬂuence
of co-metal on Pd performances in various classes of
reactions, which are treated in more details in other
part of this review book.
3. Preparation of Pd-based alloys catalysts
There are two main steps in bimetallic catalysts
preparation. The ﬁrst consists of deposing the ac-
tive component precursors as a divided form on the
support, whereas the second consists of transform-
ing these precursors into the required active phase.
It is worth noting that industrially a large majority
of deposition methods involve aqueous solutions and
liquid–solid interface. The activation of the deposited
precursors will obviously have a clear impact on the
chemical nature and the mutual interaction between
the two components, e.g. Pd and co-metal M. One can
anticipate that treatments in a mild reducing medium
at low temperature will maintain the ionic states to
some extent, whilst reduction at high temperature in
pure hydrogen will promote pure alloy formation,
and intermetallic compounds when possible. In the
following, we will not treat this aspect and the atten-
tion will be focused on the inﬂuence of the deposition
method. The deposition method of both Pd and M
precursors can be tentatively categorized within three
general methods:
1. The non-selective deposition (NSD) in which there
is no interaction between Pd and M precursors dur-
ing the deposition process.
2. The selective deposition (SD) in which one precur-
sor, of the co-metal M in the very general case, is
selectively deposited onto the metallic particles of
the other component.
3. The deposition of heterobinuclear organometallic
complexes, or inorganic salts, of Pd and M.
As for the activation process, the choice of both de-
position method and support will affect the vicinity
of Pd and M in the same aggregates, as well as their
chemical state. When NSD is used, a close vicinity be-
tween the two components is not always achieved in
the ﬁnal reduced catalyst, and a wide family of mono-
and bimetallic particles of different compositions ex-
ists at the support surface. This is the main reason for
the development of SD methods and deposition of het-
erobinuclear complexes to achieve a closer interaction
124
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
between the two components. In-ﬁne the knowledge
of the architecture of the active site for a given reac-
tion will help to decide what kind of deposition will
achieve the rational design of the selective catalyst.
Before focusing on various methods for precursor
deposition, we will shortly present a case study, sup-
ported PdFe catalyst reduced in similar conditions,
demonstrating the incidence of deposition protocol on
the physico-chemical properties of the material. In
PdFe/Al2O3 prepared from NSD of inorganic salts,
fully reduced PdFe alloys and Fe3+ coexist [57,58].
However, it has been claimed that the dipping se-
quence affects the Fe3+ proportion which increases
when H2PdCl4 is deposited ﬁrst, then FeCl3 [58].
When SiO2 is used as support, PdFe is also present
as a dispersed metallic phase, but part of Fe will be
then present as Fe2+ [59]. When a high purity graphite
support was used for the NSD of inorganic salts, the
supported metal particles consist of thermodynami-
cally stable segregated state of metallic Fe and PdFe
alloys [60], in accordance with the bulk immiscibil-
ity of the two phases [51].This emphasizes the inﬂu-
ence of the support on the chemical state of the two
components: a weak metal-support interaction, with
the graphite support, allows the creation of bimetallic
structures predicted from bulk behavior, yet not found
when refractory oxide supports are employed. The use
of PdFe heterobinuclear carbonyl complexes for the
preparation of PdFe/SiO2 catalysts leads to bimetallic
particles composed of PdFe alloy and Pd–Fe3+ pairs
with great intimacy [61]. Finally, PdFe/Al2O3 pre-
pared from underpotential deposition (UPD) of Fe3+
onto a pre-reduced parent Pd/Al2O3 allows the selec-
tive deposition of Fe0 near Pd sites of low coordina-
tion [62].
3.1. Non selective deposition of the precursors
This method mainly applies when M is a transition
metal. The basic principle of NSD of Pd and M pre-
cursors, together or successively, is such that the in-
teraction of both precursors with the solid surface was
stronger than between the two precursors. On that ac-
count the two deposited precursors are separated on
the support and surface diffusion will be necessary
to yield the “bimetallic” aggregates during the activa-
tion process. NSD will use the same deposition meth-
ods as for monometallic catalysts, which are described
in details in several reviews ([1,63–66], and refer-
ences therein). According to the ﬁnal degree of metal-
lic dispersion targeted, the deposition will be done by
ion-exchange, chemical grafting or wet impregnation.
The two formers allow deposition of atomically dis-
tributed precursors which leads to highly dispersed
metallic phase upon subsequent reduction. In contrast,
aggregates of the precursors are formed by impregna-
tion, yielding larger metallic particles. As mentioned
above, the methods using aqueous medium and inor-
ganic complexes are much more popular in industry.
3.1.1. NSD by ion exchange
Ion exchange consists of replacing an ion in an
electrostatic interaction with the surface of a support
by another species. The support containing ion A is
immersed into an excess volume of a solution con-
taining ion B that is to be introduced. Ion B gradually
penetrates into the pores of the support and replaces
ion A, which passes into solution, until an equilibrium
is established corresponding to a given distribution of
the two ions between the solid and the solution. Oxide
surfaces, and charcoal in some cases, contacted with
water are generally covered with hydroxyl groups,
Surf-OH, where Surf stands for Al, Si, Ti, . . . The
following equilibria exist in aqueous solution:
Surf-OH2+ + OH−= Surf-OH + H2O
= Surf-O−+ H3O+
(2)
The resulting surface charge, which arises from an
excess of one type of charged site over the other, is a
function of the solution pH. A given value of pH ex-
ists for which the particle is not charged overall. This
value is characteristic of the oxide and is called the
zero point charge (ZPC) of the oxide. The metal pre-
cursors generally used are transition metal complexes
(TMC), e.g. Pd(NH3)4Cl2 or PdCl4K2. In aqueous so-
lution, TMC is surrounded by H2O in the outer sol-
vation sphere, whereas the ligand L (Cl, NH3, . . . ) is
in the inner coordination sphere (Fig. 5). The method
of preparation will be based on the different kinds of
ion-support interaction (ISI) between TMC and the
support surface [67], through the concept of the inter-
facial coordination chemistry (ICC) [68]. In the ion
exchange, an electrostatic interaction occurs between
transition metal ion (TMI) and the support after ex-
change of TMC with H3O+ in the case of a positively
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
125
Fig. 5. Schematic representation of a cationic transition metal
complexe (TMC).
charged surface:
Pd(NH3)42+ + 2[Surf-O−H3O+]
= [Surf-O−]2Pd(NH3)42+ + 2H3O+
(3)
the same interaction obviously applies for the TMC of
the co-metal M.
The support surface acts as a supramolecular
counter-anion. The resulting ISI is generally strong
and leads to nano-sized (1–2 nm) particles after acti-
vation. The homogeneous distribution of both TMIs
of Pd and M through the grain of the support will
be a key factor for their further interaction in the
same aggregates. A similar strength of interaction
between both TMIs and support will promote this
homogeneous distribution.
Another drawback associated with the strength of
ISI could be the necessity of a high reduction tem-
perature (i) to favor surface diffusion of the various
species to aggregate; and (ii) to reach the metallic state
for both components. Some sintering can then occur.
On that account, the choice of a ligand L with high
reducing power can partially solve this problem. It
has thus been claimed that homogeneous nanometric
bimetallic PdAu particles located in the supercages of
Y zeolite can be obtained from co-exchange of HY
with Pd(en)2+ and Au(en)23+ (en = ethylenediamine)
[69]. The ethylenediamine ligand allows the in situ
reduction of Pd and Au in inert atmosphere without
signiﬁcant sintering.
Providing the ion exchange capacity of the surface
has not been exceeded, the sequence of deposition of
both TMCs is of no importance; however, co-exchange
is generally preferred.
3.1.2. NSD by grafting
The grafting of organometallic complexes on a sup-
port can be achieved generally through the chemical
reaction with surface hydroxyl groups, with the re-
moval of one or more organic ligands from the inner
coordination sphere of the metal complex ([66,70], and
references therein). The method of deposition results
in many cases in a strong interaction which leaves the
metal phase either atomically dispersed or as nanomet-
ric sized particles, after activation treatments usually
in mild conditions. The acetylacetonate and -allyl are
the most frequently organic Pd complexes used. The
co-grafting, or successive grafting, of Pd and M or-
ganic complexes has been scarcely reported, and a few
selected examples will be shortly described hereafter.
The grafting of Pd(II)(3-C3H5)2 can be described
by the following reaction:
Surf-OH + Pd(II)(3-C3H5)2
H2
→Surf-OPd(II)(3-C3H5) + C3H6
(4)
A similar reaction applies for the -allyl complex
of the co-metal M. A double bonded metal complex
is usually obtained with Cr, Mo and W, and a sin-
gle bonded metal complex is obtained with Ni, Pd
and Pt. A heavily loaded PdNi/SiO2 catalyst was
thus prepared by successive ligand exchange of ﬁrst
Pd(II)(3-C3H5)2 then Ni(II)(3-C3H5)2 complexes
in n-pentane solution. Both complexes interact sep-
arately with the OH groups of silica surface [71].
PdNi bimetallic particles were obtained in the 1–2 nm
range, even after reduction at 823 K. The surface is
enriched in Pd and a synergistic effect was observed
in the ethane hydrogenolysis (mixed sites). The use
of Pd(II)(3-C3H5)2 and (E)-2-ethyl-1-hexenyl-Cu(I)
was claimed to favor the formation of alloy particles
in PdCu/pumice catalysts [22].
The
co-deposition
of
Pd(II)-2,4-pentanedionate
(Pd(acac)2) and Mn(II)(acac)2 was recently described
and leads to the formation of PdMn alloys particles
surrounded by manganese oxide after reduction of a
PdMn/SiO2 catalyst [72]. As in the case of -allyl
complexes, the interaction of Pd(acac)2 obeys the
reaction [73]:
Surf-OH + Pd(acac)2
H2
→Surf-OPd(acac) + Hacac
(5)
126
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
In order to compare the beneﬁt gained by using het-
erobinuclear complexes, a PdMo/MgO catalyst was
prepared from co-grafting MgO with PdCl2(PhCN)2
and Mo(CO)6 [74]. The co-grafting leads to weaker
Pd–Mo interaction and larger PdMo particles after re-
duction, as compared to the deposition of heterobinu-
clear complexes.
3.1.3. NSD from impregnation
The most frequently case is the use of inorganic salts
in aqueous solution. The support is contacted with a
solution of TMC (Fig. 5), and some H2O molecules
are then removed out from the solvation sphere of
TMI. The weakness of the ISI in this deposition pro-
cedure usually leads after activation to metal particles
of sizes larger than 4–5 nm. Two cases can be dis-
tinguished, depending on whether the pore space of
the support contains only ambient air at the begin-
ning (capillary impregnation), or whether it is already
ﬁlled by the solvent from the impregnation solution
(diffusional impregnation) [65]. In the particular case
of alloy catalysts preparation, an important parameter
is the deposition sequence of Pd and co-metal pre-
cursors. It may govern (i) the spatial distribution of
both precursors within the pore space and the ﬁnal
vicinity of the two components; and (ii) their chemical
state after the reduction process. In the case study of
PdCu/Al2O3 prepared from Pd(acac)2 and Cu(NO3)2,
according to the timing for Cu introduction, different
phases were obtained [21]. When Cu(NO3)2 was de-
posited on Pd/Al2O3, a cherry model particle with a
Pd core and Cu outershell was found. On the other
hand when Pd(acac)2 was deposited onto CuO/Al2O3,
a large fraction of alloyed PdCu particles with a PdCu
interdispersed surface layer was obtained.
3.1.4. Miscellaneous
We will brieﬂy describe some alternative methods
which were reported for the preparation of Pd-alloyed
supported catalysts: (i) the so-called polyol process;
(ii) the photocatalytic deposition; and (iii) the sol–gel
method. The aim, when developing these alterna-
tive methods, was to promote well-dispersed heavily
loaded metallic phases and/or to form true bimetallic
aggregates.
The so-called polyol process was applied to pre-
pare PdAg/Al2O3 catalysts [75]. It consists of using
ethane-diol or propane-diol as solvent of inorganic
precursors, and as mild reducing agent. Well dispersed
PdAg bimetallic particles were thus obtained after
heating an ethyleneglycol solution at 353 K.
The photocatalytic deposition consists of irradiating
a photosensitive semiconductor surface in the pres-
ence of a noble metal salt. The metal can be thus de-
posited as small metal particles at room temperature.
It was applied for the preparation of PdPt/TiO2 cat-
alysts from their chloride precursors [76]. After UV
irradiation for 24 h, 1–3 nm PdPt metal particles of
heterogeneous compositions were obtained. However,
the obtention of true bimetallic particles requires the
favorable situation of comparable reduction rates for
both precursors.
Several attempts have been made to prepare
Pd-based supported catalysts by the sol–gel method
starting from the inorganic salt in an alkoxide so-
lution of the support precursor. PdCo/SiO2 was ob-
tained from the gelation of Co and Pd nitrates in an
ethyleneglycol solution of Si(OC2H5)4 [77]. PdCo
fully reducible bimetallic particles were formed.
Improvement in the process was claimed when or-
ganically substituted alkoxides capable of forming
chelates with Pd and Ag ions were formed [78].
PdAg particles of 2–3 nm dispersed inside the silica
particles have been prepared.
3.2. Selective deposition of the co-metal
precursor (SD)
This covers methods of wide applicability ranging
from the deposition of clear non-metal, e.g. Si or Se,
to early transition metals, e.g. Cr, on supported Pd
particles. In contrast to NSD of Pd and M, in the
SD the aim is to create an interaction between Pd
and the M precursor much stronger than that of M
precursor with the support. This is achieved through
a highly selective interaction between the M precur-
sor, inorganic salt or organometallic complex, with a
prereduced supported Pd catalyst. The SD methods
can be categorized within two types of approaches.
The ﬁrst methods involve inorganic salts in aqueous
solution, and are based on the principle on “redox” re-
actions. They are mainly applied for transition metals.
Methods of the second type, occurring in gas phase
or in apolar organic solvent, involve organometal-
lic complexes, and are based on surface chemical
reactions.
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
127
3.2.1. SD by redox methods
These preparations of bimetallic catalysts have
been recently reviewed by Barbier ([79] and refer-
ences therein). Three different approaches exist: (i)
the direct redox reactions (DRR) between metallic
and ionic species of both components; (ii) the redox
reaction with adsorbed species (RRA); and (iii) the
underpotential deposition (UPD). Moreover, under
well-deﬁned conditions, the second metal can be
deposited selectively on speciﬁc sites of the parent
metal particles. By using pre-adsorbed hydrogen and
RRA, Pt was deposited on low coordination sites of
prereduced Pd particles, whereas by using the DRR,
the adsorption of Pt occurred on the Pd facets prefer-
entially [80].
Practically the preparation of bimetallic catalysts
using DRR can be extensively used for depositing a
noble metal with a high standard electrochemical po-
tential onto a non-noble metal with a lower standard
electrochemical potential, e.g. Pd2+ on metallic Raney
Cu [81]:
Cus + Pd2+ ↔Pds + Cu2+
(6)
The extent of Pd2+ deposition on Cu metal (or on a
metal of lower potential) depends on the equilibrium
constant of Eq. (6). Finally, the redox properties can
be modiﬁed by using different ligands which alter the
standard redox potential and consequently the equilib-
rium by chelating metallic ions. As an example, Pd2+
can be deposited on Rh particles according to Eq. (6).
However, the reverse is true in the presence of chlo-
ride ions which induce a complexation of Pd2+:
3Pds + 2Rh3+ + 12Cl−↔2Rhs + 3PdCl42−
(7)
Bimetallic catalysts can also be prepared by using
a reductant that preadsorbs selectively on the parent
metal, in static or dynamic conditions (RRA). The
ions of the second metal are reduced by this reagent,
and the two metals interact. Hydrogen, preadsorbed on
noble metals, is commonly used to prepare bimetallic
catalyst by RRA. For instance this technique has been
used to prepare PtPd/Al2O3 [80], and PdCu/C [82]:
2PdH + Cu2+ →Pd2Cu + 2H+
(8)
In the techniques described above, the deposition
of the modiﬁer occurs at electrochemical potentials
which are lower than the equilibrium potential of the
modiﬁer. Under such conditions, the deposition of
the modiﬁer takes place as a three-dimensional de-
posit. By contrast, the UPD characteristically forms
submonolayer adatoms structures. In fact, the UPD
technique has been used empirically in organic chem-
istry in order to increase the selectivity in liquid-phase
hydrogenation catalysis by the addition of modiﬁer
cations. Under the hydrogenating conditions and in a
protic solvent, UPD of these modiﬁers to adatoms ex-
plains the changes of selectivity. This aspect has been
fairly discussed upon modiﬁcation of supported Pd
catalysts by addition of Ge4+, Pb2+, Cu2+, Fe3+ and
Sn2+ [13,82,83], as well as the state of the modiﬁer in
the reaction conditions: reduced adatoms or adsorbed
ions [13].
3.2.2. SD from organometallic complexes
This method of deposition has been reviewed in
details by several authors [83–86]. A generic name
was proposed to describe this route for preparing
bimetallic catalysts: the surface organometallic chem-
istry (SOMC). SOMC consists of a chemical reaction
occurring at a metal surface between an organometal-
lic complex and a zero-valent metal, which results
in a covalent bonding between the metal and a frag-
ment of the organometallic moities. SOMC can be
carried out in both gas or liquid phases, generally
in an apolar solvent for the latter. SOMC differs
from organochemical vapor deposition (OMCVD) in
that the reaction of SOMC yields less than a mono-
layer coverage of the metal surface, whereas OM-
CVD is used to prepare multilayered materials. The
organometallic complexes most frequently used be-
long to the alkyl-, metallyl- and carbonyl complexes,
even though other compounds have been employed.
The ﬁrst attempt in this approach could probably be
found in the reaction of dicyclopentadienyl–Ni on a
Ni0 surface with the help of hydrogen [87], but the
method was really successfully applied in the case of
bimetallic systems in 1984 [88–91]. The reaction in-
volves the organometallic compound MRn (M being
Ge, Sn, Pb, Se, Zn, Si, . . . where R is CH3, C2H5,
C4H9, C5H5, phenyl . . . ) and the surface of reduced
supported metal in the presence of preadsorbed or
ﬂowing hydrogen. This is exampliﬁed in the case of
-alumina-supported Pd catalysts which were modi-
ﬁed by tetra-n-butyl M complexes (M = Ge, Pb, Sb,
Sn) [92]. The reaction was carried out by contacting
128
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
prereduced Pd/Al2O3 with a n-heptane solution of the
M alkyls complexes at 360 K:
Pd + Sn(C4H9)4
H2
→PdSn(C4H9)4−x + xC4H10
(9)
The anchored –Sn(C4H9)4−x moities release the
remaining butyl fragment(s) upon heating to give Sn
adatoms ﬁrst, and further on bulk PdSn alloys when-
ever possible. The modiﬁcation of Pd with Si, Sn,
Sb, Pb and Ge has thus been described [86,92–95].
An interesting aspect, not fully explored, in this sur-
face modiﬁcation with organometallic complexes is
when the SOMC is stopped at the level of Eq. (9).
Alkyl fragments then remain bonded to the M mod-
iﬁer, itself anchored to the metal surface. It has been
shown that in well-deﬁned conditions this fragment is
thermally stable up to fairly high temperatures [85].
Unexpected selectivities were thus found in some re-
actions, e.g. the hydrogenation of citral to geraniol on
RhSn(C4H9)2/SiO2 [96]. Albeit attractive, no exam-
ple was yet reported about catalysis on such modiﬁed
Pd surface.
There are some examples of modiﬁcation by Ni
[97] and Ru [98] of Pd-based catalysts through SOMC
between Pd metal and metallocenes. This reaction is
very similar to that of alkyl metals:
Pd + Ni(C5H5)2
H2
→PdNi + C5H6 (or C5H8, C5H10)
(10)
Finally, the use of metal carbonyls allows the selec-
tive deposition by sublimation of early transition met-
als. PdCr/SiO2 were prepared by this way, using the
sublimation of Cr(CO)6 on prereduced Pd/SiO2 [99].
3.3. The deposition of heterobinuclear complexes
Elements of these approaches for preparing bimetal-
lic catalysts can be found in some reviews [100,101].
Two goals have initiated researches towards the use of
heterobinuclear complexes as precursors for bimetallic
catalysts. The ﬁrst is the ﬁne tuned control of an ho-
mogeneous composition in the nuclearity of bimetallic
particles. As compared to catalysts prepared by NSD
methods, mixed-metal cluster-derived catalysts should
retain more bimetallic ensembles. The second goal is
to maintain a high degree of dispersion of the transition
metal in the presence of an oxophilic co-metal, giving
strong interaction with the oxide support. However,
the use of heterobinuclear complexes is limited by the
availability of high nuclearity clusters and by the nar-
row choice of metallic couples. The different types of
interaction of these complexes with the support are the
same as previously described for the NSD methods.
Carbonyl
complexes
are
probably
the
most
widely used heterobinuclear organometallic com-
plexes. PdFe/SiO2
were prepared by impregna-
tion of silica with [Fe4Pd(CO)16][TMBA]2
and
[HFe6Pd6(CO)24][TMBA]3 in organic solvent [61].
Interdispersed Pd–Fe alloys and superﬁcial Pd–Fe3+
pairs are present in the reduced particles. Similarly,
PdCo/C catalysts were obtained after impregna-
tion of active carbon with a CH2Cl2 solution of
[DPPE][PdCo2(CO)7] [102]. Very high dispersion
of Pd in PdMo/MgO materials was retained even
after treatment of the samples under drastic condi-
tions by using [Pd2Mo2(Cp)2(CO)6(PPh3)2] [74].
The oxophilic Mo exists preferentially at the interface
between MgO and metal particles and stabilizes the
bimetallic clusters against sintering.
Attempts have been undertaken to synthesize mixed
acetylacetonate complexes in deﬁned proportions of
the two metals. This was successfully achieved for
PdCu/SiO2 from PdxCu1−x(acac)2 [43]. However, the
same group did not succeed in the case of PdMn/SiO2
catalysts [72]. A similar approach was described for
the preparation of PdCu/Al2O3 from mixed Pd cuprate
PdCu(OAc)2 in ethanol solution [42].
4. Inﬂuence of co-metal on some selected reactions
Hereafter, we will exemplify the inﬂuence of
co-metal M on the performance of Pd in supported
catalysts. The classes of reactions chosen are those
for which Pd constitutes a reference active metal
[103]: (i) the selective hydrogenation of highly unsat-
urated aliphatic hydrocarbons; (ii) the hydrogenation
of aromatics; (iii) the hydrogenation of N-containing
compounds; and (iv) the hydrodehalogenation in both
aliphatic and aromatic series.
4.1. Selective hydrogenation of highly
unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons
This class of reactions mainly addresses to the
selective hydrogenation of alkynes, alkadienes and
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
129
related compounds to the corresponding alkenes. Pd
metal exhibits the best catalytic properties for these
reactions and can even be improved by the addition
of a co-metal [104]. The ﬁrst clear example of pro-
moting Pd by addition of a second metal deals with
the well-known Lindlar catalyst PdPb/CaCO3 for the
selective hydrogenation of alkynes [105]. More re-
cently, better performances in these reactions were
reported upon alloying Pd with Pb [95,106–109], Sn
[107,110,111], Ag [75,112,113], Cu [114–116], Co
[25,117], Cr [99], Sb [107], Fe [118], Au [112], Zn
[24] and Tl [109]. The promoting effect of co-metal on
selectivity was almost always interpreted as follows:
1. An electronic or ligand effect and/or the disappear-
ance of the -PdH phase, both being intimately re-
lated. The presence of the modiﬁer at the surface
and in the bulk produced a change of the relative
adsorption strength of the alkynes or alkadienes
and the alkene, which resulted in an increased re-
activity for alkynes and a decreased reactivity for
alkenes (Fig. 2).
2. A geometric effect which results from the dilution
of the Pd surface layer decreasing the probability
of strongly multi-bonded alkylidine intermediate
formation. This species has been proposed as re-
sponsible for the direct hydrogenation of alkynes
to alkanes.
In the hydrogenation of styrene to ethylbenzene, an
increase in activity and sulfur resistance was observed
after both Co or W addition to Pd/Al2O3 [119]. It was
ascribed to the formation of very active Pd–Co and
Pd–W mixed sites. On the other hand, the addition
of Pt to Pd/pumice exhibited a negative effect in the
selective hydrogenation of 1,3-cyclooctadiene to cy-
clooctene [120,121].
4.2. Hydrogenation of aromatics or
hydro-dearomatisation (HDA)
It is generally agreed that PtPd on acidic supports
exhibit a higher activity and a better sulfur tolerance
in HDA than the monometallic Pd and Pt homo-
logues, as mentioned in a recent review [122]. It is
generally accepted that the sulfur resistance is related
to the electron-deﬁcient character of Pt atoms in the
bimetallics. This electron deﬁciency comes from (i)
the dilution of Pt in the Pd matrix; and (ii) the acidic
properties of the carrier. The dilution of Pt atoms in
a Pd surface was put in evidence by IR spectroscopy
of adsorbed CO [123–125], and EXAFS [126–128].
However, from EXAFS experiments also, Fujikawa
et al. [129] concluded that the higher activity of
PtPd/SiO2–Al2O3 comes from Pd species dispersed
on Pt particles. As a conclusion, it comes out that an
intimate interaction between Pt and Pd is required to
achieve good performances, and details of the prepa-
ration strongly inﬂuences the degree of alloying be-
tween them. Perfectly homogeneous composition of
PtPd particles supported on SiO2 were thus obtained
by using mixed PtPd acetylacetonates as precursors
[121]. A maximum of sulfur resistance was observed
for a Pd20Pt80 bulk composition, corresponding to
a nearly 50/50 composition of the outmost surface
layer. A topological segregation of Pd at corner and
edge sites was also proposed in PdRh/Al2O3 catalysts
to account for a better sulfur resistance than Pd or Rh
alone in the hydrogenation of benzene [130].
In PdRu/SiO2 catalysts, a ligand effect was pro-
posed between Pd and Ru which changed markedly
the stereoselectivity in the hydrogenation of o-xylene
[131].
4.3. Hydrogenation of nitrogen-containing
compounds
In the hydrogenation of aliphatic nitriles, Pd cata-
lysts yield preferentially tertiary amines [132]. In the
gas phase hydrogenation of butyronitrile, the promo-
tion of Pd by Ni in PdNi/NaY catalysts increased the
speciﬁc rate and the yield to the primary amine with
respect to Pd and Ni alone [133]. This was attributed
to a higher reduction degree of Ni and the presence
of mixed ensembles at the surface of bimetal clusters.
By contrast, the addition of Ag did not affect the se-
lectivity [133]. The addition of Co to Pd/C increased
also the rate in the liquid phase hydrogenation of pro-
pionitrile [134].
The industrial catalyst for the hydrogenation of ni-
trobenzene is a trimetallic catalyst PtPdFe supported
on C [135]. The positive effect of Fe could be at-
tributed to the activation of the N–O bonds by Fen+ in
mixed site Pd–Fen+ as proposed in the hydrogenation
of 2,4-dinitrotoluene on PdFe/SiO2 [136].
The hydrogenation of nitrates in aqueous solutions
on PtPd/C leads to the formation of N2O, N2 and
130
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
hydroxylamine, which can be obtained in high yields
[137]. Ge promotes the activity of Pd/C and of PtPd/C
which are the best catalysts for the obtention of hy-
droxylamine. It has been proposed that the catalyst in
the steady-state is an alloy.
The hydrogenation of nitrates and nitrites to N2 in
contaminated drinking water is promoted by addition
of Cu to Pd catalysts [138–140]. The formation of
ammonium ions is minimized and the beneﬁcial effect
was explained in terms of mixed sites Pd–Cu. Tin and
indium would promote more efﬁciently Pd for nitrate
reduction than Cu [141].
4.4. Reactions involving CO
Supported Pd catalysts are attractive due to their
activity and selectivity to methanol in the CO hydro-
genation. Methane can be formed as by-product and
the high selectivity of Pd catalysts has been related
to the inability of Pd to chemisorb CO dissociatively
[142]. However, recent studies from Gotti and Prins
[143] demonstrated that Pd on ultra pure silica hardly
produced methanol from CO and H2. They proposed
that some conﬂincting previous reports about the
selectivity to methanol could be explained from im-
purities present in the support. When Ni [71,144]
and Co [78,145] are added to Pd and reduced at
temperatures to favor the formation of alloys, the
formation of higher hydrocarbons prevails with a
product distribution showing a signature reminiscent
to Fisher–Tropsch catalysts. This behavior was as-
cribed to the suppression of “Pd carbide” due to alloy
formation, and a better dissociative adsorption of CO
[145]. By contrast, when Pd is alloyed with small
amount of Fe (Fe/Pd ≤1), a higher selectivity to
methanol was found [61,146]. Fe0 acts as an inert
breaker of the Pd ensembles responsible for bridging
CO chemisorption and CO dissociation. Concurrently
the presence of Pd–Fe3+ pairs favors the activation
of CO bond for insertion with Pd–H and Pd–alkyl
intermediates. Fe-rich catalysts derived from Fe4Pd
binuclear clusters were not selective catalysts [61].
The promotion of Pd/SiO2 by alkali, and low temper-
ature reduction, for methanol formation from syn-gas
was also interpreted in term of Pd ensembles dilution
[147]. Sulﬁdation of PdMoK/Al2O3 catalysts yielded
materials exhibiting good selectivity for higher alco-
hol synthesis (C2+) from CO + H2 [148].
The reductive carbonylation of CH3OH with CO
and H2 is enhanced upon alloying Pd and Co [102].
This is explained by a higher reduction degree of Co
mediated by Pd, and the formation of close neighbor-
hood of hydrogen activation sites and carbonylation
centers in more active bimetallic Pd–Co sites.
The reaction between NO and CO to give selectively
N2 and CO2 is very important for three ways catalysts
in order to substitute expensive and scarce Rh, which
is the most active metal for that reaction. Pd alone is
poorly efﬁcient, but the addition of Mo [149,150], Mn
[151], Cu [152] or Cr [153] increases the activity and
the selectivity to N2, at the expense of N2O. Various
interpretations of the promoter effect have been pro-
posed. Cu maintains Pd in a zero-valent state in the
reaction conditions and the dissociation of NO will be
favored [152]. Upon Mo addition, mixed sites
Pd–Mon+ will be formed on which Pd activates
CO, and NO dissociates through the redox cycle
Mo4+/Mo6+ [150]. It was proposed that on Pd alone
the surface is mainly covered by NO and that the Cr
addition will increase the CO coverage, and conse-
quently the rate [153].
4.5. Hydrodehalogenation
Pd and Ni are the preferred metals for the hy-
drodechlorination (HDCl) in both aromatic and
aliphatic series [103,154]. In recent works, a special
attention was paid to the selective HDCl of chlo-
roﬂuorocarbons (CFCs) to hydrochloroﬂuorocarbons
(HCFCs) and hydroﬂuorocarbons (HFCs) [154]. It
was shown that the addition of Bi and Tl to Pd/SiO2
increased the selective HDCl of CCl2FCF2Cl to
CH2FCCF2Cl and CH2FCHF2 [155]. The promotion
was interpreted in terms of geometric effects, dilution
by Bi and Tl of Pd surface into small ensembles less
prone to hydrodeﬂuorination. A similar interpretation
might be suggested for the improved HDCl of CCl2F2
to CH2F2 upon addition of Au to Pd/MgF2 [156].
When Al and Zr were added to Pd/graphite, a higher
selectivity to CH2F2 was also reported in HDCl of
CCl2F2 [157]. It was proposed that AlFx and ZrFx
species, formed during the reaction, migrated onto the
Pd particles. The resulting close interaction between
Pd and AlFx species induced an electronic modiﬁ-
cation of Pd which made the reactive desorption of
F2C∗with H∗easier [157]. In the same reaction the
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
131
addition of Re to Pd/Al2O3 had little inﬂuence and
a partial ﬂuorination of the carrier (AlFx species)
during the reaction was found to increase the selec-
tivity [158]. Iron addition to Pd/graphite favored the
formation of CF2CF2 from CCl2F2 [159].
Geometric effects, i.e. the dilution of Pd surface
into smaller ensembles, were claimed for causing the
change of activity and selectivity in HDCl of CH2Cl2
on PdRe [160] and of CHCl2CH3 on PdAg [77].
Electronic effects were mainly invoked to account
for the modiﬁcations in selectivity and activity in the
gas phase HDCl of chlorobenzene on PdRh/Al2O3
[161], and of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene on Pd/Al2O3
modiﬁed by Sn, Pb, Sb and Ge [162]. The HDCl in the
liquid phase of polychloroanilines and polychlorophe-
nols yielded selectively the meta-chloro derivatives
upon addition of Ag, Bi, Zn, . . . on Pd/charcoal [163].
5. Concluding remarks
There is no single interpretation to explain the ef-
fect of co-metal on the performance of Pd catalysts.
Depending on the nature of both the co-metal and the
reaction, the beneﬁcial presence of a co-metal can be
interpreted in terms of geometric effects, electronic
effects and/or mixed sites. Moreover, in many cases,
the promotion of catalytic properties will be directly
related to the method of catalyst preparation, which
affects the chemical states of both Pd and co-metal as
well as their spatial distribution. A very important as-
pect will be the clear identiﬁcation of the active site
architecture, in order to choose the most appropriate
synthesis route which will selectively yield this active
site in the catalytic material.
References
[1] V. Ponec, G.C. Bond, Catalysis by Metals and Alloys,
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1995.
[2] M.W. Roberts, Heterogeneous catalysis since Berzelius:
some personal reﬂections, Catal. Lett. 67 (2000).
[3] M. Boudart, A. Aldag, J.E. Benson, N.A. Dougharty, C.
Harkins Girvin, J. Catal. 6 (1966) 92.
[4] M. Boudart, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 20, Academic Press,
San Diego, 1969, p. 163.
[5] H.S. Taylor, Proc. R. Soc. London A108 (1925) 105.
[6] V. Ponec, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 32, Academic Press,
San Diego, 1983, p. 149.
[7] J.J. Burton, E. Hyman, D.G. Fedak, J. Catal. 37 (1975) 106.
[8] V.S. Sundaram, P. Wynblatt, Surf. Sci. 52 (1975) 569.
[9] J.K. Strohl, T.S. King, J. Catal. 116 (1989) 540.
[10] B. Coq, A. Goursot, T. Tazi, F. Figueras, D. Salahub, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 113 (1991) 1485.
[11] G.A. Somorjai, Langmuir 7 (1991) 3176.
[12] T. Mallat, T.L. Allmendinger, A. Baiker, Appl. Surf. Sci. 52
(1991) 189.
[13] Z. Bodnar, T. Mallat, A. Baiker, in: M.G. Scaros, M.L.
Prunier (Eds.), Catalysis of Organic Reactions, Marcel
Dekker, New York, 1995, p. 393.
[14] P. Sabatier, La Catalyse en Chimie Organique, Librairie
Polytechnique, Ch Béranger, Paris, 1913.
[15] J. Cosyns, in: B. Imelik, G.-A. Martin, A.-J. Renouprez
(Eds.), Catalyse par les Métaux, Editions du CNRS, Paris,
1984, p. 971.
[16] J.C. Fuggle, F.U. Hillebrecht, R. Zeller, Z. Zolnierek, P.A.
Bennett, Ch. Freiburg, Phys. Rev. B 27 (1982) 2145.
[17] R.C. Budhani, A. Banerjee, T.C. Goel, K.L. Chopra, J.
Non-Cryst. Solid 55 (1983) 93.
[18] J.A. Rodriguez, M. Kuhn, J. Phys. Chem. 100 (1996) 381.
[19] M. Fernández-Garc´
ıa, J.C. Conesa, A. Clotet, J.M. Ricart,
N. López, F. Illas, J. Phys. Chem. 102 (1998) 141.
[20] M. Fernández-Garc´
ıa, J.A. Anderson, G.L. Haller, J. Phys.
Chem. 100 (1996) 16247.
[21] F. Skoda, M.P. Astier, G.M. Pajonk, M. Primet, Catal. Lett.
29 (1994) 159.
[22] A.M. Venezia, L.F. Liotta, G. Deganello, Z. Schay, L. Guczi,
J. Catal. 182 (1999) 449.
[23] L. Guczi, Z. Schay, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 27 (1986) 313.
[24] A. Sarkany, Z. Zsoldos, B. Furlong, J.W. Hightower, L.
Guczi, J. Catal. 141 (1993) 566.
[25] A. Sarkany, Z. Zsoldos, G. Steﬂer, J.W. Hightower, L. Guczi,
J. Catal. 157 (1995) 179.
[26] J.P. Boitiaux, J. Cosyns, S. Vasudevan, Appl. Catal. 15
(1985) 317.
[27] N.I. Kobozev, Acta Physicochim. URSS 9 (1938) 1.
[28] O.M. Boronin, V.S. Poltorak, Int. Chem. Eng. 7 (1967) 452.
[29] R. van Hardeveld, F. Hartog, Surf. Sci. 15 (1969) 189.
[30] W.M.H. Sachtler, R.A. van Santen, Advances in Catalysis,
Vol. 26, Academic Press, San Diego, 1977, p. 69.
[31] R. Coekelbergs, A. Frennet, G. Lienard, P. Resibois, J. Phys.
Chem. 39 (1963) 604.
[32] J.A. Dalmon, G.A. Martin, J. Catal. 66 (1980) 214.
[33] E. Miyazaki, I. Yasumori, J. Math. Phys. 18 (1977) 215.
[34] G.A. Martin, J.A. Dalmon, C. Mirodatos, in: Proceedings of
the 8th International Congress on Catalysis, Vol. IV, Berlin,
1984, Verlag Chemie, Weinheim, 1984, p. 371.
[35] C.A. Balseiro, J.L. Moran-Lopez, Surf. Sci. 156 (1985) 404.
[36] M.W. Smale, T.S. King, J. Catal. 119 (1989) 441.
[37] G. del Angel, B. Coq, F. Figueras, A. Rouco, J. Catal. 95
(1985) 167.
[38] Y. Soma-Noto, W.M.H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 32 (1974) 215.
[39] F.J.C.M. Toolenaar, F. Stoop, V. Ponec, J. Catal. 82 (1983)
1.
[40] C.A. Leon y Leon, M.A. Vannice, Appl. Catal. 69 (1991)
291.
132
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
[41] F.B. Noronha, M. Schmal, M. Primet, R. Fréty, Appl. Catal.
78 (1991) 125.
[42] L.V. Nosova, A.V. Kalinkin, E.A. Paukshtis, E.P. Talsi, Yu.A.
Ryndin, React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 53 (1994) 139.
[43] A. Renouprez, K. Lebas, G. Bergeret, J. Mol. Catal. A 120
(1997) 217.
[44] Y. Debauge, M. Abon, J.C. Bertolini, J. Massardier, A.
Rochefort, Appl. Surf. Sci. 90 (1995) 15.
[45] J.L. Rousset, J.C. Bertolini, P. Miegge, Phys. Rev. B 53
(1996) 4947.
[46] A.J. Renouprez, K. Lebas, G. Bergeret, J.L. Rousset, P.
Delichère, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 101 (1996) 1105.
[47] R.L. Moss, D. Pope, H.R. Gibbens, J. Catal. 55 (1978) 100.
[48] V. Ponec, Appl. Catal. A 149 (1997) 27.
[49] G.L. Haller, D.E. Resasco, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 36,
Academic Press, San Diego, 1989, p. 173.
[50] G.C. Bond, P.B. Wells, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 15,
Academic Press, San Diego, 1964, p. 91.
[51] M. Hansen, K. Anderko, Constitution of Binary Alloys, 2nd
Edition, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1991.
[52] M. Boudart, H.S. Wang, J. Catal. 39 (1975) 44.
[53] A. Borodzinski, R. Dus, R. Frak, A. Janko, W. Palczewska,
in: Proceedings of the 6th International Congress on
Catalysis, London, 1976, The Chemical Society, London,
1977, p. 151.
[54] H. Jobic, A. Renouprez, J. Less-Common Met. 129 (1987)
311.
[55] S. Leviness, V. Nair, A.H. Weiss, Z. Schay, L. Guczi, J.
Mol. Catal. 25 (1984) 131.
[56] H.R. Aduriz, P. Bodnariuk, B. Coq, F. Figueras, J. Catal.
129 (1991) 47.
[57] R.L. Garten, J. Catal. 43 (1976) 18.
[58] T.-C. Xiao, L.-D. An, A.-H. Tang, S.-L. Li, X.-H. Xu, J.
Nat. Gas Chem. 1 (1994) 13.
[59] F. Bocuzzi, E. Guglielminotti, F. Pinna, M. Signoretto, J.
Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 91 (1995) 3237.
[60] R.W. Wunder, J. Phillips, J. Phys. Chem. 100 (1996) 14430.
[61] M. Ichikawa, Polyhedron 7 (1988) 2351.
[62] R. Bachir, E. Laﬁtte, P. Marécot, B. Didillon, J. Barbier, J.
Chim. Phys. 94 (1997) 1906.
[63] M. Che, C.O. Bennett, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 36,
Academic Press, San Diego, 1989, p. 55.
[64] L. Guczi, A. Sarkany, Catalysis Special Periodic Report,
Vol. 11, The Chemical Society, London, 1995, p. 318.
[65] M. Che, O. Clause, Ch. Marcilly, in: G. Ertl, H. Knözinger,
J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis,
Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 1997, p. 191.
[66] C. Louis, M. Che, in: G. Ertl, H. Knözinger, J. Weitkamp
(Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, Wiley-VCH,
Weinheim, 1997, p. 207.
[67] J.P. Brunelle, Pure Appl. Chem. 50 (1978) 1211.
[68] M. Che, in: Proceedings of the 10th International Congress
on Catalysis, Budapest, 1992, Akademiai Kiado, Budapest,
1993, p. 151.
[69] D. Guillemot, M. Polisset-Thfoin, D. Bonnin, V. Yu.
Borovkov,
J.
Fraissard,
in:
Proceedings
of
the
12th
International Zeolite Conference, Baltimore, 1998, Material
Research Society, p. 2079.
[70] M. Ichikawa, Advances in Catalysis, Vol. 38, Academic
Press, San Diego, 1992, p. 283.
[71] V.I. Koval’chuk, N.V. Chesnokov, A.V. Kalinkin, L.V.
Naimushina, B.N. Kusnetsov, Kinet. Catal. 36 (1995) 396.
[72] A.J. Renouprez, J.F. Trillat, B. Moraweck, J. Massardier, G.
Bergeret, J. Catal. 179 (1998) 390.
[73] J.P. Boitiaux, J. Cosyns, S. Vasudevan, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
16 (1983) 123.
[74] S. Kawi, O. Alexeev, M. Shelef, B.C. Gates, J. Phys. Chem.
99 (1995) 6926.
[75] E. Andrade Sales, B. Benhamida, V. Caizergues, J.-P. Lagier,
F. Fiévet, F. Bozon-Verduraz, Appl. Catal. A 172 (1998)
273.
[76] J.-M. Herrmann, J. Disdier, P. Pichat, A. Fernández, A.
González-Elipe, G. Munuera, Ch. Leclercq, J. Catal. 132
(1991) 490.
[77] B. Heinrichs, P. Delhez, J.-P. Schoebrechts, J.-P. Pirard, J.
Catal. 172 (1997) 322.
[78] L. Guczi, Z. Schay, G. Steﬂer, F. Mizukami, J. Mol. Catal.
A 141 (1999) 177.
[79] J.
Barbier,
in:
G.
Ertl,
H.
Knözinger,
J.
Weitkamp
(Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, Wiley-VCH,
Weinheim, 1997, p. 257.
[80] C. Micheaud, P. Marécot, M. Guérin, J. Barbier, Appl. Catal.
A 171 (1998) 229.
[81] C. Montassier, J.C. Ménézo, J. Naja, P. Granger, J. Barbier,
P. Sarrazin, B. Didillon, J. Mol. Catal. 91 (1994) 119.
[82] Z. Bodnár, T. Mallát, S. Szabó, J. Petró, Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 63 (1991) 459.
[83] J. Margitfalvi, S. Szabó, F. Nagy, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 27
(1986) 373.
[84] Y.A. Ryndin, Y.I. Yermakov, in: J.-M. Basset, B.C. Gates,
J.-P. Candy, A. Choplin, M. Lecomte, F. Quignard, C.
Santini (Eds.), Surface Organometallic Chemistry: Molecular
Approaches to Catalysis, Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1988, p. 127.
[85] J.P. Candy, B. Didillon, E.L. Smith, T.M. Shay, J.M. Basset,
J. Mol. Catal. 86 (1994) 179.
[86] V.D. Stytsenko, Appl. Catal. A 126 (1995) 1.
[87] C.M. Pleass, D.G. Schimmel, J. Catal. 24 (1972) 424.
[88] I.S.C. Hugues, J.O.H. Newman, J. Mol. Catal. 25 (1984)
219.
[89] R.G. Nuzzo, L.H. Dubois, N.E. Bowles, M.A. Trecoske, J.
Catal. 85 (1984) 267.
[90] J. Margitfalvi, M. Hegedüs, M. Göbölös, S. Kern Talas, P.
Szedlacsek, S. Szabó, F. Nagy, in: Proceedings of the 8th
International Congress on Catalysis, Vol. IV, Berlin, 1984,
Verlag Chemie, Weinheim, 1984, p. 903.
[91] C. Travers, J.-P. Bournonville, G. Martino, in: Proceedings of
the 8th International Congress on Catalysis, Vol. IV, Berlin,
1984, Verlag Chemie, Weinheim, 1984, p. 891.
[92] H.R. Aduriz, P. Bodnariuk, B. Coq, F. Figueras, J. Catal.
119 (1989) 97.
[93] D.J.C. Yates, S.K. Behal, B.H. Kear, J. Mat. Res. 3 (1988)
714.
[94] S. Tjandra, D. Ostgard, G.V. Smith, M. Musoiu, T.
Wiltowski, F. Notheisz, M. Bartók, J. Stoch, in: W.E. Pascoe
(Ed.), Catalysis of Organic Reactions, Marcel Dekker, New
York, 1992, p. 137.
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
133
[95] H.R. Aduriz, C.E. Gigola, A.M. Sica, M.A. Volpe, R.
Touroude, Catal. Today 15 (1992) 459.
[96] B. Didillon, A. El Mansour, J.-P. Candy, J.-M. Basset,
F. LePeltier, J.-P. Boitiaux, in: Proceedings of the 10th
International
Congress
on
Catalysis,
Budapest,
1992,
Akademiai Kiado, Budapest, 1993, p. 2370.
[97] J.F. Faudon, F. Senocq, G. Bergeret, B. Moraweck, G.
Clugnet, C. Nicot, A. Renouprez, J. Catal. 144 (1993) 460.
[98] Y. Ywasawa, in: G. Ertl, H. Knözinger, J. Weitkamp
(Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, Wiley-VCH,
Weinheim, 1997, p. 853.
[99] A. Borgna, B. Moraweck, J. Massardier, A. Renouprez, J.
Catal. 128 (1991) 99.
[100] M. Ichikawa, in: Y. Ywasawa (Ed.), Tailored Metal Catalysts,
D. Reidel, Dordrecht, 1985, p. 183.
[101] B.C. Gates, L. Guczi, H. Knözinger, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
29 (1986) 415.
[102] S. Bischoff, A. Weigt, K. Fujimoto, B. Lücke, J. Mol. Catal.
A 95 (1995) 259.
[103] P.N.
Rylander,
Catalytic
Hydrogenation
in
Organic
Synthesis, Academic Press, San Diego, 1979.
[104] J.P. Boitiaux, J. Cozyns, M. Derrien, G. Leger, Hydrocarbon
Process 64 (1985) 51.
[105] H. Lindlar, Helv. Chem. Acta 35 (1952) 446.
[106] W. Palczewska, I. Ratajczykowa, I. Szymerska, M. Krawc-
zyk, in: Proceedings of the 8th International Congress on
Catalysis, Vol. IV, Berlin, 1984, Verlag Chemie, Weinheim,
1984, p. 173.
[107] H.R. Aduriz, P. Bodnariuk, B. Coq, F. Figueras, J. Catal.
129 (1991) 47.
[108] W. Palczewska, A. Jablonski, Z. Kaszkur, J. Mol. Catal. 25
(1984) 307.
[109] L. Cerveny, I. Paseka, K. Surma, N.T. Thanh, V. Ruzicka,
Collect. Czech. Chem. Commun. 50 (1985) 61.
[110] M. Masai, K. Honda, A. Kubota, S. Onhaka, Y. Nishikawa,
K. Nakahara, K. Kishi, S. Ikeda, J. Catal. 50 (1977) 419.
[111] S.H. Choi, J.S. Lee, J. Catal. 193 (2000) 176.
[112] G.C. Bond, A.F. Rawle, J. Mol. Catal. A 109 (1996) 261.
[113] E. A Sales, M.J. Mendes, F. Bozon-Verduraz, J. Catal. 195
(2000) 96.
[114] B.K. Furlong, J.W. Hightower, T.Y.-L. Chan, A. Sarkany, L.
Guczi, Appl. Catal. A 117 (1994) 41.
[115] L. Guczi, Z. Schay, Gy. Steﬂer, L.F. Liotta, G. Deganello,
A.M. Venezia, J. Catal. 182 (1999) 456.
[116] L.V. Nosova, V.I. Zaikovskii, Yu.A. Ryndin, React. Kinet.
Catal. Lett. 53 (1994) 131.
[117] F.B. Noronha, M. Schmal, R. Fréty, G. Bergeret, B.
Moraweck, J. Catal. 186 (1999) 20.
[118] R. Bachir, P. Marécot, B. Didillon, J. Barbier, Appl. Catal.
A 164 (1997) 313.
[119] P.C. L’Argentière, N.S. Figoli, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 36
(1997) 2543.
[120] G. Deganello, D. Duca, L.F. Liotta, A. Martorana, A.N. Ven-
ezia, A. Benedetti, G. Fagherazzi, J. Catal. 151 (1995) 125.
[121] A.J. Renouprez, A. Malhomme, J. Massardier, M. Cattenot,
G. Bergeret, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 130 (2000) 2579.
[122] B.H. Cooper, B.B.L. Donnis, Appl. Catal. A 137 (1996) 203.
[123] T.-B. Lin, C.-A. Jan, J.-R. Chang, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 34
(1995) 4284.
[124] R.M. Navarro, B. Pawelec, J.M. Trejo, R. Mariscal, J.L.G.
Fierro, J. Catal. 189 (2000) 184.
[125] C.-A. Jan, T.-B. Lin, J.-R. Chang, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 35
(1996) 3893.
[126] K. Thomas, PhD Thesis, Caen, France, 2000.
[127] T. Rades, C. Pak, M. Polisset-Thfoin, R. Ryoo, J. Fraissard,
Catal. Lett. 29 (1994) 91.
[128] D. Bazin, A. Triconnet, P. Moureaux, NIM B 97 (1995) 41.
[129] T. Fujikawa, K. Tsuji, H. Mizuguchi, H. Godo, K. Idei, K.
Usui, Catal. Lett. 63 (1999) 27.
[130] G. del Angel, B. Coq, F. Figueras, J. Catal. 95 (1985) 167.
[131] G. Córdoba, J.L.G. Fierro, A. López-Gaona, N. Mart´
ın, M.
Viniegra, J. Mol. Catal. A 96 (1995) 155.
[132] J. Volf, J. Pasek, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 27 (1986) 105.
[133] Y. Huang, W.M.H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 188 (1999) 215.
[134] T. Mallát, S. Szabó, J. Petró, S. Mendioroz, M.A. Folgado,
Appl. Catal. 53 (1989) 29.
[135] A.M. Strätz, in: J.R. Kosak (Ed.), Catalysis of Organic
Reactions, Marcel Dekker, New York, 1984, p. 335.
[136] A. Benedetti, G. Fagherazzi, F. Pinna, G. Rampazzo, M.
Selva, G. Strukul, Catal. Lett. 10 (1991) 215.
[137] C.G.M. van de Moesdjik, in: J.R. Kosak (Ed.), Catalysis of
Organic Reactions, Marcel Dekker, New York,1984, p. 379.
[138] J. Batista, A. Pintar, M. Ceh, Catal. Lett. 43 (1997) 79.
[139] F. Deganello, L.F. Liotta, A. Macaluso, A.M. Venezia, G.
Deganello, Appl. Catal. B 24 (2000) 265.
[140] A.C.A. deVooys, R.A. van Santen, J.A.R. van Seen, J. Mol.
Catal. A 154 (2000) 203.
[141] U. Prüsse, M. Hähnlein, J. Daum, K.-D. Vorlop, Catal. Today
55 (2000) 79.
[142] M.L. Poutsma, L.F. Elek, P.A. Ibarbia, A.P. Risch, J.A. Rabo,
J. Catal. 52 (1978) 157.
[143] A. Gotti, R. Prins, J. Catal. 175 (1998) 302.
[144] J.S. Feeley, A.Yu. Stakheev, F.A.P. Cavalcanti, W.M.H.
Sachtler, J. Catal. 136 (1992) 182.
[145] Y.-G. Yin, Z. Zhang, W.M.H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 138 (1992)
721.
[146] L. Guczi, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 38 (1988) 85.
[147] J.S. Rieck, A.T. Bell, J. Catal. 100 (1986) 305.
[148] Z.-R. Li, Y.-L Fu, M. Jiang, M. Meng, Y.-N. Xi, T.-D. Hu,
T. Liu, Catal. Lett. 65 (2000) 43.
[149] T.E. Hoost, G.W. Graham, M. Shelef, O. Alexeev, B.C.
Gates, Catal. Lett. 38 (1996) 57.
[150] M. Schmal, M.A.S. Baldanza, M.A. Vannice, J. Catal. 185
(1999) 138.
[151] J.F. Trillat, J. Massardier, B. Moraweck, H. Praliaud, A.J.
Renouprez, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 116 (1998) 103.
[152] M. Fernández-Garcia, A. Mart´
ınez-Arias, C. Belver, J.A.
Anderson, J.C. Conesa, J. Soria, J. Catal. 190 (2000) 387.
[153] A. El Hamdaoui, G. Bergeret, J. Massardier, M. Primet, A.
Renouprez, J. Catal. 148 (1994) 47.
[154] Z. Ainbinder, L.E. Manzer, M.J. Nappa, in: G. Ertl, H.
Knözinger, J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Heterogeneous
Catalysis, Vol. 4, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 1997, p. 1677.
[155] R. Ohnishi, W.-L. Wang, M. Ichikawa, Appl. Catal. A 113
(1994) 29.
134
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117–134
[156] A. Malinowsky, W. Juszczyk, J. Pielaszek, M. Bonarowska,
M. Wojciechowska, Z. Karpinski, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 130
(2000) 1991.
[157] B. Coq, F. Figueras, S. Hub, D. Tournigand, J. Phys. Chem.
99 (1995) 11159.
[158] A. Malinowsky, W. Juszczyk, M. Bonarowska, J. Pielaszek,
Z. Karpinski, J. Catal. 177 (1998) 153.
[159] B. Coq, S. Hub, F. Figueras, D. Tournigand, Appl. Catal. A
101 (1993) 41.
[160] M. Bonarowska, A. Malinowsky, Z. Karpinski, Appl. Catal.
A 188 (1999) 145.
[161] P. Bodnariuk, B. Coq, G. Ferrat, F. Figueras, J. Catal. 116
(1989) 459.
[162] B. Coq, F. Figueras, P. Bodnariuk, in: Proceedings of
the XI Simposio on Iberoamericano Catalysis, Guanajuato,
1988, Instituto Mexicano del Petroleo, Mexico, 1988,
p. 1145.
[163] G. Cordier, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 41 (1988) 19.
