I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The Soviet Russian State. by Robert G. Wesson; The Soviet State: An Aging Revolution. by Robert G. Wesson Review by: Grey Hodnett Slavic Review, Vol. 32, No. 2 (Jun., 1973), pp. 396-397 Published by: Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2495995 .
Accessed: 12/06/2014 17:51 Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at . http://www.jstor.org/page/info/about/policies/terms.jsp .
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org. .
Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Slavic Review. http://www.jstor.org This content downloaded from 91.229.229.177 on Thu, 12 Jun 2014 17:51:49 PM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions 396 Slavic Review potentially interesting differences in interpretation and evaluation pass unacknowl- edged and unexplored.
In consequence,the reader is left with only a few disjointed insights into the dynamics of Soviet society and almost no coherent guidelines for independent thinking and research.
This would be lamentable under any circum- stances,but it is particularly so in the case of a badly neglected field where ac- ceptable texts are rare and works of in-depth scholarship are virtually nonexistent.One's regret is even greater because the present volume might have had the inci- dental but desirable effect of encouraging American scholars to pay more attention to the work of their German colleagues,many of whom have done and are currently doing outstanding research.Professors Meissner, Ruffman, Anweiler,and Thal- heim all belong to this category,but Social Change in the Soviet Union does not present them at anything like their best.
JEREMY R. AZRAEL
University of Chicago
THE SOVIET
RUSSIAN
STATE. By Robert G. Wesson. New York: John
Wiley & Sons, 1972. vi,404 pp. $8.95.
THE SOVIET
STATE:
AN AGING REVOLUTION.
By Robert G. Wesson.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1972. vii, 222 pp. $3.95, paper.
The Soviet Russian State is a solid textbook written for the undergraduate course on Soviet politics. (The Soviet State is an abridged version suitable for an intro- ductory comparative government course.) The first third of the book (four chap- ters) is devoted to the historical background of the contemporary system.
There follow chapters on ideology,the party,state,economy,the "psychocultural front," law, the army,nationalities,and extensions abroad of the Soviet empire.
A final chapter makes a judiciously cautious attempt to weigh the future prospects of this "aging revolution." In contrast with some other recent volumes aimed at the same market, Wesson's combines balanced coverage of most aspects of the system with commendable depth. A short list of suggested readings is appended to each chapter.The unifying theme is that a strain toward autocratic structures of rule has existed in both the tsarist and Soviet periods,created by the functional need to prevent disintegration in a vast Russian-dominated multinational empire.
"The multinational character of the Soviet state," Wesson asserts,"is probably the most important determinant of the peculiarity of the Russian Revolution and the Soviet system" (p. 309). The book also explores the historical tension between the need to introduce Western technology and the need to maintain political con- trol within the empire,and the various implications of the fact that "the Soviet Union has largely outgrown or outworn the revolutionary impulses and the social transformation of its birth and has become a settled authoritarian state" (p. v).
Wesson is not impressed by recent attempts to reformulate the questions one should ask about Soviet politics.
His approach is broadly historical-descriptive,stressing similarities between the Soviet and tsarist regimes,and between both and earlier "imperial orders." On this level of analysis his work ranks well above most other introductory texts.
This approach,perhaps,has led him to dwell on "the Party's" monopoly of power,and to spend much time pointing out-in the traditi-onal manner-discrepancies between mythology and political reality.
The result,not surprisingly,is a relentless exposure of Soviet hypocrisy-one with This content downloaded from 91.229.229.177 on Thu, 12 Jun 2014 17:51:49 PM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions Reviews 397 which most scholars in the field (the reviewer included) would probably sym- pathize, yet one that may strike some student readers as evidence of "anti- Soviet bias." This impression is unnecessarily accentuated by frequent pro-Ameri- can comparisons,which (editors should by now realize) also stamp such books as provincial or worse in the eyes of their audience in the broader English-speaking world.
The essential question,of course,is whether a fixation on the distribution of power provides the best framework to convey a sense of how the political system operates. It appears to this reviewer that Wesson is sometimes misled by his "power" focus.
The chapter on "The Party," for example,repeats too much of -the conventional wisdom and pays insufficient attention to the complexity of inter- and intra-organizational relationships (documented,in particular,in the writings of Jerry Hough).
Despite the occasional overgeneralization or dubious assertion of fact, Pro- fessor Wesson nevertheless has fundamentally achieved what he set out to do.
He has written the kind of readable textbook,thematically integrated but with much useful illustrative detail,that many students want and probably need.
GREY HODNETT
York University
SOVIET ECONOMISTS
OF THE TWENTIES:
NAMES TO BE REMEM-
BERED. By Naum Jasny.
Soviet and East European Studies. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press, 1972. x, 218 pp. $12.50.
This is the last text written by the late Naum Jasny,who died in 1967. It was probably not yet ready in a definitive version,but the missing editorial stage was supplied by Michael Kaser, and the final product is a timely book,rather a set of essays on the non-Bolshevik economists in the twenties.
This brilliant lot of experts who staffed the top levels of different Soviet economic agencies-Gosplan and the Commissariats of Agriculture and Finance in particular,as well as numerous uni- versity chairs-played a key role in the development of Soviet planning and eco- nomic thought,and their influence may still be felt today in the renascent economic science in Russia. But for all too long these "bourgeois specialists" were not studied and their role remained in the shadow,since they were tried in the early thirties and,in most cases,physically annihilated.
An extremely interesting and personally and politically varigated group,the economists "to be remembered" came from different political families-they were former Mensheviks, Narodniks, Kadets, Marxists,non-Marxists,and anti-Marxists,some continuing to stick to previous creeds,and others evolving in different ways under the pressure of Soviet realities,under NEP and during the first stages of industrialization.
They all preferred to stay in Russia and chose to collaborate with the new regime.
Their political and personal reasons for doi.ng so, the role they played,and their fate and the controversies they aroused form exceedingly interest- ing material for study.
It needed the passionate and combative spirit of Jasny -to launch the theme and to force it upon scholarship, West and -East.
The main con- tribution is in the biographical part of the book,in - which Jasny- portrays Groman, Bazarov, Ginzburg,and Kondratiev in some detail,and a host of others in a set-of brief sketches.
But introductory chapters on "war communism," NEP, and the First Five-Year Plan make interesting reading too.
This content downloaded from 91.229.229.177 on Thu, 12 Jun 2014 17:51:49 PM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 