I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


24 Acc. Chem. Res. 1986,19, 24-31 Surface Science Studies of Catalysis: Classification of Reactions
FRANCISCO
ZAERA,
ANDREW
J. GELLMAN,
and GABOR
A. SOMORJAI
Materials and Molecular Research Division, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, and Department of Chemistry, Received July 23, 1985 (Revised Manuscript Received November 21, 1985) University of California, Berkeley, California 94720 Many of the processes used in the chemical and pe- troleum industries require the use of a catalyst. As originally defined by Berzelius, a catalyst is a material that increases the rate of a chemical reaction without itself being either consumed or changed. While the increase of reaction rates is often desirable, control of reaction selectivity or product distribution is also a key ingredient in a successful catalytic process. The catalyst selects among available reaction channels (thermody- namically allowed) to yield desirable products while blocking the formation of undesirable species. In many cases involving solid catalysts these pathways consist of an adsorption step, followed by a surface reaction and finally desorption of the product. The understanding of such processes rests upon our molecular level un- derstanding of the adsorption/desorption reactions, the structure of catalytic surfaces, and the bonding and coordination of reaction intermediates to these surfaces.
The methodology used in the study of catalysis has changed drastically over the past 15 years. Classical methods required high surface area samples (>lo m2) to generate measurable amounts of product. Presently,catalyst samples with surface areas as low as 1 cm2 are sufficient for study by a number of techniques under ultra-high-vacuum (UHV) conditions. Such small samples can have a high degree of homogeneity and can even be obtained in single crystal form. The use of such single crystals as model catalysts has greatly accelerated the rate of development of catalysis science.
Many techniques have been developed for the direct study of surfaces and have been applied to catalysis. A partial list of such techniques is presented in Table I.
Catalysts studied include platinum for hydrocarbon conversion? iron and rhenium for ammonia ynthesis,,and silver for the partial oxidation of ethlene.
The hydrogenation of carbon monoxide has been studied over a large number of metal surfaces including iron,6 nikel,ruthenium,s and mlybdenum.
The oxidation of carbon monoxide, shown to have oscillatory behavior,has been studied over platinum catalysts.lO, Finally, Francisco Zaera was born in Caracas, Venezuela. He received his Licen- ciate degree there from the Universidad Simon Bolivar. After 1 year as an instructor, he entered the doctoral program at Berkeley, obtaining his Ph.D. in
1984. He is interested in the use of surface analytical techniques to study
catalytic reactions.
Andrew J. Gellman was born in Winnipeg, Canada, and received his B.S. degree from the Callfornia Instiiute of Technology in 1981 and his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1985. Presently a Postdoctoral Fei- low at Cambridge University, he will join the faculty of chemistry at the Univ- ersity of Illinois in Urbana in August, 1986. His interests are in the investiga- tion of surface catalysis, corrosion, and corrosion inhibition.
Gabor A. Somorjai was born in Budapest, Hungary. At the outbreak of the Hungarian Revolution he immlgrated to the Unled States and received his Ph.D. degree in chemistry from the Unlversity of California, Berkeley, in 1960.
After graduation he joined the IBM research staff in Yorktown Heights and in 1964 returned to Berkeley where he is presently Professor of Chemistry and Senior Sclentist and Director of the Catalysis Program of the Center for Ad- vanced Materials of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. platinum and rhodium have been used to catalyze the hydrogenation of ethylene12 and molybdenum to hy- drodesulfurize thiophene to butenes.13 These inves- tigations have led to an increased understanding of catalytic mechanisms and the role of surface structure in catalysis.
The atomic scale characterization of catalytic surfaces has often been performed under UHV conditions ( 10-10-10-9 torr). These conditions are necessitated by the need to keep sample surfaces clean of contamination and the need to use electron or ion spectroscopies. At pressure of lo4 torr a clean surface would be completely covered by an adsorbed monolayer of the background gas in a period of about 1 s. In order to keep surfaces clean for periods of hours, UHV conditions are neces- sary. Ions and electrons interact strongly with con- densed matter and thus are ideal for the study of sur- faces because of their short penetration depths. The use of these probes also requires working under vacuum.
Much of the criticism of UHV techniques as viable tools for the study of catalysis has been based on the argument that chemisorbed species formed under these conditions may bear no relationship to those formed at industrial catalytic pressures. In order to overcome this difficulty, we have designed an apparatus for combined
UHV
surface analysis and high-pressure catalytic re- action studies over small surface area amp1es.l In addition to being equipped with a number of surface analytical techniques, this UHV chamber has an in- ternal environmental cell that can enclose the sample,isolating it from vacuum and forming part of a closed loop batch reactor that can be pressurized to about 30 atm (Figure 1). In this manner we can characterize the catalytic surface before and after exposure to reaction (1) J. Berzelius, Jahres-Bericht uber die Fortscri der Physichen Wissenschafter, Tubingen, 1836, p 243.
(2) S. M. Davis and G. A. Somorjai, The Chemical Physics of Solid Surfaces and Heterogeneous Catalysis, Vol. 4, D. A. King and D.
P.
Woodruff, eds., ElseGer, Amsterdam, 1982.
(3) N. D. Spencer and G. A. Somorjai, J. Catal., 74 129 (1982).
(4) M. Asscher, J. Carrazza, M. H. Khan, K. B. Lewis, and G. A.
(5) C. T. Campbell and M. T. Paffett, Surf. Sci., 139 396 (1984).
(6) D. J. Dwyer and J.
H. Hardenbergh, J.
Catal., 87 66 (1984).
(7) D. W. Goodman, R. D. Kelley, T.
E. Madey, and J. T. Yates, J.
(8) R. D. Kelley and D. W. Goodman, Surf. Sci. Lett., 123 L743 (1982).
(9) M. Logan, A. J. Gellman, and G. A. Somorjai, submitted for pub-
(IO)
J. E. Turner, B. C. Sales, and M. B. Maple, Surf. Sci., 103 54
Somorjai, submitted for publication in J. Catal.
Catal., 63 226 (1980). lication in J. Catal. 11981). \ _ _ _ _ , .
(11) R. C. Yeates, J. E. Turner, A. J. Gellman, and G. A. Somorjai,(12) F. Zaera and G. A. Somorjai, J. Am. Chem. SOC.,106 2288 (1984).
(13) A. J. Gellman, M. H.
Farias, and G. A. Somorjai, J. Catal., 88 546 Surf. Sci., 149 175 (1985).
(1984).
Vac.
Sci. Technol., 13 1901 (1976).
(14) D. W. Blakely, E. Kozak, B. A. Sexton, and G. A. Somorjai, J. 0001-4842/86/0119-0024$01.50/0 0 1986 American Chemical Society Vol. 19, 1986 Classification of Surface-Catalyzed Reactions 25 Table I.
Table of Some of the Frequently Utilized Surface Characterization Techniques To Determine the Structure and Composition of Solid Surfaces (Adsorbed Species Present at Concentrations of 1% of a Monolayer Can Be Readily Detected.) surface anal. method acronym physical basis type of information obtained low-energy electron diffraction
LEED
elastic back-scattering of low-energy electrons atomic surface structure of Auger electron spectroscopy
AES
electron emission from surface atoms excited by electron surface composition X-ray of ion bombardment high-resolution electron energy IR spectroscopy
IRS
vibrational excitation of surface atoms by absorption of structure and bonding of X-ray and UV photoelectron
XPS
electron emission from atoms electronic structure and surfaces and of adsorbed gases HREELS vibrational excitation of surface atoms by inelastic structure and bonding of surface loss spectroscopy reflection of low-energy electrons atoms and adsorbed species IR radiation adsorbed gases spectroscopy
UPS
oxidation state of surface atoms and adsorbed species of solid surfaces surface composition ion-scattering spectroscopy
ISS
inelastic reflection of inert-gas ions atomic structure and composition secondary ion mass spectroscopy SIMS extended X-ray absorption fine
EXAFS
interference effects during X-ray emission atomic structure of surfaces and thermal desorption spectroscopy TDS thermally induced desorption or decomposition of adsorption energetics ion beam induced ejection of surface atoms as positive and negative ions structure analysis adsorbed gases (a) i Sampling valve chromatograph adsorbed species q p r e s s u r e  gauge
S.S welded bellows
Gas introduction J 1 To mechanical pump needle - i l o w s To gas Welded metal pump manifold Figure 1. (a) Schematic diagram of the high-pressure/UHV apparatus with sample enclosed in the high-pressure cell. (b) HP/UHV apparatus with cell open. conditions and attempt to correlate surface character- istics with the kinetic parameters (rate, product dis- tribution, activation energy) of the catalytic reaction.
Admittedly, some of the adsorbates may be modified or are removed when the surface is examined under vacuum. Nevertheless, most of the species that are present during the catalytic reaction in the surface monolayer of the active catalyst can be identified.
The surface science studies of catalytic reactions that have been performed to date indicate that there are three types of metal-based catalytic systems:
1. The first encompases reactions that occur directly
on a metal surface. These catalytic processes are characterized by their sensitivity to the atomic structure of the surface.
2. The second class includes reactions occurring on
an overlayer that is irreversibly bound to the metal surface. Such reactions involve adsorbates that are weakly bound to this overlayer and, thus, are insensitive to the structure of the underlying metal surface.
3. Finally, reactions on coadsorbate modified surfaces
fall into the third category. These catalysts contain additives that alter the bonding of reactants to the surface or block specific reaction sites, altering reaction pathways.
The following accounts present case histories of surface science studies of catalytic processes repre- composition of adsorbed species senting each of the three categories. Following these we shall indicate directions of future investigation.
Catalysis on a Metal Surface: The Ammonia Synthesis Reaction The synthesis of ammonia from stoichiometric mix- tures of H2 and N2 has been studied over clean iron and rhenium single-crystal surfaces having a variety of crystallographic orientations. The reactions were per- formed at temperatures between 500 and 800 K and at total pressures of 20 atm. The surfaces were fully characterized by LEED and AES to ensure cleanliness and to determine atomic surface structure.
Ammonia synthesis has also been studied extensively over high surface area catalysts. The conclusions drawn from these studies are that the rate-determining step of this reaction is the dissociative adsorption of N2 and that the activity of the catalyst is strongly dependent on its atomic structure. The proposal has been made that iron surface atoms having sevenfold coordination are an important component of the active site.15 Studies of the chemisorption of nitrogen on the low Miller index planes of iron single crystals show dramatic variations with crystallographic orientation.16 Initial sticking coefficients vary in the ratio 60:3:1 on the Fe- (lll), Fe (loo),and Fe (110) surfaces, respectively. We have studied the synthesis of ammonia over these surfaces (Figure 2) and found that the activity follows the same trend as the sticking coefficient, the relative rates being 418:25:1. The similarity between the de- pendences of the sticking coefficients and reaction rates on surface structure is a good indication that N2 chem- isorption is the rate-limiting step for this reaction.
Examination of the sketches of the surface structures in Figure 2 shows that activity depends upon the atomic scale roughness of the surface. The Fe (111) surface,being the most open and corrugated, is also the most active, while the Fe (110) surface, the most closely packed, is much less active. Roughening of the two least active surfaces by argon ion bombardment increased their catalytic activity by a factor of 6.17 It should also (15) J. A. Dumesic, H. Topsoe, and M. Boudart, J.
Catal., 37 513 (16) G. Ertl, Catal. Reu. Sci. Eng., 21 201 (1980).
(1975). 26 Zaera et al.
Accounts of Chemical Research (Ill1
C
,
(SOLID1
C,
(DOTTED1
Fe (100) ( 1 1 0 1
C,(SOLIDl
C
,
(SOLID1
C8(DOTTED)
C8
(DOTTED1
Figure 2. Rates of NH3 synthesis over three low Miller index Fe surfaces.
I4
C6!S3-;Dl cg
(SOLIC,
C,G(DOTTED)
Figure 3. Rate of NH, synthesis over four Re surfaces. be noted that the most active surface, Fe (1111,contains atoms that have C7 coordination.The ammonia synthesis reaction was also studied over rhenium single-crystal  surface. Once again, the re- activity varies drastically with surface structure, ranging over more than 3 orders of magnitude among the sur- faces studied (Figure 3). Higher activity was associated with surfaces having open topography. It is apparent that surface roughness is requisite for the dissociative chemisorption of N,; however, the detailed geometry of the active sites cannot be uniquely determined from our results. Although both the Fe (111) and Re (1120) (17) N. D. Spencer, R. C. Schoonmaker,and G. A. Somorjai,
J. Catal.,
74 129 (1982).
Table 1 1 .
Comparison of the Kinetic Parameters for Ethylene Hydrogenation over Different Platinum Catalysts Ea,catalyst loa raten ab bb kcal/mol ref platinized foil
1.9
-0.8
1.3
10 30 platinum evaporated film
2.7
0
1.0
10.7
31 1% Pt/A1203 -0.5
1.2
9.9
32 3 %  Pt/SiO,
1.0
10.5
34 Pt (111)
1.4
-0.6
1.3
10.8
12 platinum wire
0.6
-0.5
1.2
10 33
0.05% Pt/SiO,
1.0
0
9.1
35 "Rate in molecule/(Pt atom s ) ,corrected for the following con- ditions: T = 323 K, PCZHI = 20 torr, PH2 = 100 torr. *Orders in ethylene (a) and hydrogen (b) partial pressures. surfaces contain atoms having sevenfold coordination,the most active Re surface, Re (1121),does not. At- omically rough surfaces, having high coordination hollows, seem to be a general requirement for the dis- sociative adsorption of N2.
It appears that reactions occurring directly on metal surfaces are sensitive to the local surface structure.
Open or rough surfaces that expose sites of high coor- dination in either the first or second atomic layer of the surface show especially high catalytic activity. Surface roughening can be introduced by using high Miller in- dex surfaces with high densities of steps and kinks. The bottoms of the steps expose sites of high coordination to the reactant molecules. In addition to the ammonia synthesis reaction, H2/D2 exchange at low pressures36 and the hydrogenolysis of n-hexane and lighter al- k a n e    ,have shown similar structure sensitivity.
Recent theoretical studies have related the electronic structure of high coordination sites with observed cat- alytic activity. These show an interesting correlation;however, the detailed theoretical understanding of the surface structure dependence of such catalytic reactions is still in its initial stages.18 Catalysis on an Active Overlayer: The Hydrogenation of Ethylene Platinum and rhodium single crystals are good cata- lysts for the hydrogenation of ethylene at temperatures of 300-400 K and atmospheric pressures. The surfaces were analyzed before and after reaction using AES, LEED, TDS, HREELS, and a I4C radiotracer technique that monitors the rate of removal of labeled carbon from the surface. Kinetic parameters for ethylene hy- drogenation over a Pt (111) surface compare well with those found using other forms of platinum (films, small particles), as can be seen from Table 11. Activation energies for the reaction are all between 9 and 1 1
kcal/mol, and the rates all have close to -0.5 and 1.0 order dependence on ethylene and hydrogen pressures,respectively. Furthermore, the absolute values of the reaction rates, expressed as turnover frequencies (eth- ane molecules former per surface Pt atom per second),are all within the same order of magnitude, a clear in- dication that the reaction is not strongly affected by the structural details of the catalyst surface.
Extensive studies of the chemisorption of ethylene on single-crystal metal surfaces have been performed.lg (18) L. M. Falicov and G. i..
Somorjai, submitted for publication in (19) R. J. Koestner, M. A. Van Hove, and G. A. Somorjai, J .  Phys.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
Chem., 87 203 (1983).
Vol. 19, 1986 Classification of Surface- Catalyzed Reactions 27 lL/,.- Figure 4. Ethylidyne moiety adsorbed on the Pt (111) surface.
Over Pt (111) and Rh (111) surfaces, ethylene undergoes a series of structural and chemical transformations as the temperature is increased. At low temperatures, the molecule adsorbs undistorted parallel to the surface. At about 300 K, a complete structural rearrangement oc- curs and a new surface moiety, ethylidyne (CCH3),is formed. During the conversion of ethylene to ethyli- dyne a hydrogen atom from ethylene bonds to the surface and subsequently recombines with another H atom to desorb as H2. A hydrogen atom shift occurs within the remaining CzH3 species, to produce a methyl group bonded to the second carbon in such a way that the carbon-carbon bond is perpendicular to the surface and the whole moiety sits on a threefold hollow site (Figure 4). This structure has been characterized by a wide variety of  technique. Ethylidyne is stable up to temperatures of 400 K at which point further decomposition leads to the formation of CH and C2H fragments and, ultimately, to the creation of a graphitic overlayer.
One of the most important results of our studies is the observation that ethylidyne fragments are present on the metal surface even after the ethylene hydro- genation reaction. The results of TDS, LEED, and HREELS experiments on a Pt (111) surface after ethylene hydrogenation are compared with similar data from ethylidyne in Figure 5. The LEED pattern after the reaction reveals a p(2 X 2) ordered overlayer, similar to that obtained for ethylidyne, although the extra spots are more diffuse (an indication of partial disorder). The TD and HREEL spectra after reactions show peaks that are primarily attributable to ethylidyne. The extra features are most probably due to minority CH, frag- ments.
The stability of ethylidyne in the presence of high pressures of hydrogen and ethylene has been studied by using HREELS and radiation techniques with deu- terated and 14C-labeled ethylidyne, repectively.- (20)
L.
L
.
Kesmodel, L.
H. Dubois, and G. A. Somorjai, Chem. Phys.
Lett., 5 6
267 (1978).
(21)
L.
L.
Kesmodel, L. H. Dubois,and G. A. Somorjai, J. Phys.
Chem., 70 2180 (1979).
(22)
J.
E.
Demuth, Surf. Sci., 93
L82
(1980).
(23)
P.
Skinner, M.
W. Howard, I. A. Oxton, S. F. A. Kettler, D. B.
Powell, and N. Sheppard, J.
Chem. SOC., Faraday Trans. 2, 77 1203 ( 1 9 8 1 ) .
' (24)
B. E
.
Koel, B. E. Bent, and G. A. Somorjai, Surf.
Sci., in press.
(25)
F
.
Zaera, Ph.D. Thesis, University of California, Berkeley, 1 9 8 4 .
(26)
A. Wieckowski, S
.
D. Rosasco, G. N. Salaita, B. Bent, F. Zaera,
and G. A. Somorjai, J. Am. Chem. SOC.,in press.
Figure 6 compares the rates of ethylene hydrogenation over Pt and Rh surfaces with rates for ethylidyne hy- drogenation and the rate of incorporation of surface hydrogen into the methyl group of ethylidyne. It is clear that both processes are orders of magnitude slower than the overall rate of ethylene hydrogenation and,thus, that neither can be an intermediate step in the reaction pathway.
From our results it is apparent that ethylidyne forms and that it is permanently present on the metal surface during ethylene hydrogenation reactions. The stability of this species under reaction conditions suggests that it is not, in fact, a direct intermediate for the formation of ethane. Rather, we propose that it facilitates the transfer of hydrogen, dissociated by the metal surface,to ethylene that is weakly adsorbed to ethylidyne overlayer. Such a mechanism is illustrated in Figure
7. It is clear that olefin hydrogenation reactions occur
on metal surfaces that are covered with a carbonaceous overlayer. With this in mind, it should be noted that alkylidyne moieties, analogous to ethylidyne, have been observed after propylene and butylene adsrption,' suggesting a similar mechanism for the hydrogenation of other olefins. Further studies are necessary to prove this proposition.The ethylene hydrogenation reaction is probably the most distinctive example of a catalytic reaction occur- ring on an active overlayer rather than a metal surface.The role of the metal in this case is to dissociate hy- drogen and to act as a template for the active ethylidyne species. Although it is quite likely that many examples of such catalysis exist, there are very few well-charac- terized cases, One similar case is the oxidation of CO on Pt surfaces at high pressures.lOJ1 The reaction oc- curs over at platinum oxide layer that serves as an ac- tive source of oxygen and plays a dominant role in de- termining the reaction kinetics and mechanism.Hydrodesulfurization of Thiophene over Sulfided Molybdenum Surfaces The extraction of sulfur from sulfur-containing or- ganic molecules is achieved by the hydrodesulfurization (HDS) process. We have recently studied the hydro- desulfurization of thiophene (C4H4S) over Mo (100) single-crystal surfaces. The reactions are performed at temperatures of 550-700 K on mixtures of 2.5 torr of thiophene in 1 atm of hydrogen. A typical product distribution is Shawn in Figure 8 compared with that from a high surface area MoS2 atalyst.' The simi- larity between the two distributions suggests that the reaction mechanisms over the two catalysts are iden- tical.The chemisorption of sulfur on the Mo (100) surface has been studied in detail under UHV conditions.28 At monolayer coverages sulfur is adsorbed atomically in a lattice with a p(2 X 1) structure with respect to the substrate. Heating the surface to temperatures between 1400 and 1800 K results in the desorption of sulfur and the formation of different overlayer structures as the coverage decreases. The LEED patterns, proposed real space structures,and coverages at which they Qccur are presented in Figure 9. (27)
S.
Kolboe, Can. J.
Chem., 47 352 ( 1 9 6 9 ) .
(28)
A.
J. Gellman, M. H. Farias, M. Salmeron, and G. A. Somorjai,
Surf. Sci., 1 3 6
217 (1984). 28 Zaera et al.
Accounts of Chemical Research
EVIDENCE
FOR THE PRESENCE OF ETHYLIDYNE
AFTER
AFDSPHERIC
HYDROGENATION
OF
ETHYLIDYNE
ETHYLENE
OVER PT (U)
AFTER
%H4
HYDROGENATION
TPD
LEED
H
W
0
IO00
2000 3000 ENERGY LOSS (cm-' )
I
I ran,
I
I
I
I
1 1339
I
y w u 0 lo00 2000 ENERGY LOSS (cm") Figure
5. Comparison of TPD, LEED, and HREELS measurements on a Pt (111) surface after C2H4
hydrogenation with those on an ethylidyne-covered surface.
At low coverages (50.5 monolayer) sulfur atoms ad- sorb on fourfold hollow sites.29 The heat of desorption (29)
L
.
J
.
Clarke, Surf.
Sci., 102 331 ( 1 9 8 1 ) .
(30)
A. Farkas and L. Farkas, J. Am. Chem. SOC.,
60 22 ( 1 9 3 8 ) .
(31)
D. Beeck, Rev. Mod. Phys., 1
7
61 ( 1 9 4 5 ) .
(32)
G. C. Bond, Trans. Faraday SOC.,
52 1235 ( 1 9 5 6 ) .
(33)
V.
B. Kazanskii and V. P. Stronin,
Kinet. Catal. (Engl. Trans.),(34)
T
.
A. Darling, M.
J. Eastlake, and R. L. Moss,
J. Catal., 1
4
23 1517 ( 1 9 6 0 ) .
( 1 9 6 9 ) .
from this site, estimated from thermal desorption data,is about 110 kcal/mol. The appearance of a second peak in the TD spectra at higher coverages indicates (35)
J
.
C. Schlatter and M. Boudart, J. Catal., 24
482 ( 1 9 7 2 ) .
(36)
M.
Salmeron, R .
J. Gale, and G. A. Somorjai, J. Chem. Phys., 67
(37)
S. M.
Davis, F. Zaera, and G. A. Somorjai,
J. Catal., 85 206
( 1 9 8 4 ) .
(38)
J
.
E
.
Crowell,
E. L. Garfunkel,
and G. A. Somorjai, Surf. Sci., 1 2 1
(39)
G. Blyholder, J. Phys. Chem., 68
2772 (1964). 5324 ( 1 9 7 7 ) .
303 ( 1 9 8 2 ) .
Vol. 19, 1986 Classification of Surface-Catalyzed Reactions 29
C2H.l +H2
I
C2H6
T = 3
1 0
K
,,,,= lotm. 13 pt 0 Ah Pt Rh
I
I
I
Figure 6. Comparison of the rates of ethylene hydrogenation over Pt and Rh with those for ethylidyne hydrogenation and those for exchange of hydrogen between the metal surface and the methyl group of ethylidyne.
L
Figure 7. Proposed model for ethylene hydrogenation mechanism over an ethylidyne-covered surface.
T = 285'C
P=
1 atm.
PRODUCT
Figure 8. Comparison of thiophene HDS product distributions over Mo (100) and MoS2 catalysts. the creation of a second, more weakly bound, sulfur adsorption state. The formation of a p(2 X 1) lattice at monolayer coverages suggests that the additional sulfur atoms are in fact bound to a different site, pos- sibly in a bridged configuration (Figure 8). Structures composed of both hollow site and bridge-bonded sulfur can be proposed to account for the LEED patterns observed for coverages between 0.5 and 1.0 monolayer.
Studies of the rate of HDS of thiophene over clean and sulfided surfaces show that sulfur coverages that are produced before the reaction commences result in a decrease in reaction rates (Figure 10). The molyb- denum surface is always covered with sulfur after re- action, and thus, the fact that the rate is affected by initial sulfiding of the surface indicates that the sulfur present on the surface during reactions is chemically different from that deposited beforehand. Isotope-la- beling studies using 35S indicate that the sulfur de-
LEED
PATTERN
%FUR
COMRnGE
STRUCTURE
M)MENCLATURE
e, = o CLEAN Mol100)
CI2X2)
0.15 < e, c o 55
i) 0 6 5 < % < 0 7
I
I
WSSBLE
SULFUR
OVERLAYER
STRXTURES
6.
:o;
:Q
. .
:. .
. n:: Figure 9. LEED patterns and proposed real space structures for sulfur on the Mo (100) surface at various coverages.
THIOPHENE HDS onMo(100) vs. 0, RATE RELATIVE to CLEAN SURFACE
T=310'C
P -780t PT,=2.5t
H2 -
Figure 10. Initial rate of thiophene HDS va. initial sulfur cov- erage on the Mo (100) surface. posited under UHV conditions remains on the surface during the reaction, retarding the reaction rate, while sulfur atom thiophene is removed from the surface as
H2S,
without forming a strong surface bond. Sulfiding of the Mo surface to coverages greater than -0.6 monolayer does not result in significant further re- duction in the HDS rate. This observation is directly related to the formation of a weakly bound sulfur species at high coverages. This sulfur species is re- moved from the surface under reaction conditions de- sorbing as H2S and, thus, does not have any effect on the reaction rate. Although the effect of sulfiding the catalyst is primarily one of site blocking, reducing overall activity, it also induces a change in the product selectivities. The adsorbed sulfur selectively blocks sites for hydrocarbon hydrogenation and thus reduces the rates of butane and butene production without affecting the rate of butadiene production. As a result, the presence of sulfur shifts the selectivity of the' reaction toward the production of butadiene.Finally, it appears that the HDS oftthiophene occurs either via direct, concerted hydrogenation of C-S bonds,producing H2S,or through some weakly bound, easily 30 Zaera et al.Accounts of Chemical Research
I
,1 C O / K / R n ( l l l ) '
I
AU - Pt ( I l l )  Alloys hA/ + H 2 ,  5 7 3 K H z / H C = IO, Pt0+ = 220 Torr Fractional gold surface coverage Figure 11. Dependence of the initial rates of product formation from n-hexane conversion on gold coverage over Au-Pt alloys:
A,
isomerization; 0,cyclization; 0,hydrogenolysis; v,dehydro- cyclization. reduced Mo-S intermediate. In either case the process does not proceed via deposition of sulfur into the fourfold hollow site, from which it cannot be reduced under our reaction conditions. This sulfur species,bound in fourfold hollow sites, blocks hydrocarbon hydrogenation, modifying the HDS product distribu- tion.
Conversion of n -Hexane over Gold-Modified Platinum Surfaces The reforming of n-hexane over platinum catalysts occurs via a number of reactions including isomeriza- tion, cyclization, dehydrocyclization, and hydrogenoly- sis. Most of these are structure sensitive and have been studied in detail because of their importance as models for the processes used to produce high-octane gasoline.40 Gold itself is inactive as a catalyst for these molecular rearrangements. However, when added to a Pt single- crystal surface it will alter the product distribution markedly. This is shown for the Pt (111) face as a function of gold coverage in Figure 11. The rate of isomerization increases while the rates of dehydrocy- clization and hydrogenolysis drop quickly with gold coverage. Thus, low concentrations of gold drastically change the product ditribution.
This observation is usually explained by pointing out the important role that the high-symmetry threefold platinum sites play in the dehydrocyclization and hy- drogenolysis reactions. The addition of gold to the surface decreases the concentration of these sites more rapidly than the low-symmetry bridging and top sites.
Thus, the rates of reactions requiring high-symmetry sites (dehydrocyclization, hydrogenolysis) are reduced more rapidly than those needing the low-symmetry sites. This phenomenon is often called the ensemble effect.
In order to explain the large increase in the rate of isomerization, one must invoke the formation of mixed Pt-Au sites that are more active than the pure Pt. Such sites may be ensembles having PtzAu or PtAu, stoi- chiometry. Thus, alloying of gold with Pt can change (40) S. M. Davis, F. Zaera, and G. A. Somorjai,
J.
Am. Chem. SOC.,104 (41) J. W. A. Sachtler and G. A. Somorjai, J. Catal., 81 77 (1983). 7453 (1982). 0
I
:
9 26 X3331 "e
I
1
2 93 1 1 ' ,452 Figure 12. HREELS spectra of CO coadsorbed with K on the Rh (111) surface at various OK.The two high-frequency peaks are the CO stretching frequencies. reaction selectivity both by site blocking and by pro- ducing new catalytic sites.Hydrogenation of Carbon Monoxide over Potassium-Doped Transition-Metal Surfaces The hydrogenation of carbon monoxide produces alkanes, alkenes, and alcohols selectively or in a mixture over many transition-metal syfaces. Potassium is used as an additive in many catalysts for this reaction to increase activity and modify product distributions.These promoters increase the molecular weights of the products and increase the selectivity toward alkanes and unsaturates. The first explanation of this phenomenon in terms of an electronic effect was given by Blyh0ldel.3 who suggested that potassium donates electrons to the metal that in turn increases the amount of back-dona- Vol. 19, 1986 Classification of Surface-Catalyzed Reactions 31 tion to the CO molecules. Increased donation into the 2r* orbital increases the metal-adsorbate bond strength while simultaneously weakening the C-0 bond.Surface science studies have shown that such effects are, in fact, observed. The heat of adsorption of CO on the Rh (111) surface is increased by 12 kcal/mol (from 25 to 37 kcal/mol) when coadsorbed with potassium.Vibrational studies using HREELS revealed a contin- uous decrease of the CO stretching frequency from 1850 to 1550 cm-' with increasing potassium coverage42 (Figure 12). Finally, isotope scrambling experiments using 13C160 and 12C180 indicate that potassium will induce molecular dissociation, unobserved in the ab- sence of the alkali The enhanced ability to break CO bonds, induced by the presence of potassium,results in a higher surface carbon coverage and, as a result, a decrease in the hydrogen coverage. The de- crease in the surface H to C ratio in turn favors car- bon-carbon bond formation to produce higher molec- ular weight products. The reduced rate of C-H bond formation favors the production unsaturated hydro- carbons.The modification of the catalytic properties of a metal surface by potassium differs from the previous cases in that it is an electronic effect. In the case of sulfur on the Mo (100) surface the modification is achieved by selective site blocking while the addition of gold to the platinum surface both blocks sites and creates new sites.An electronic effect that occurs through the metal substrate is expected to be more long range in nature.This has been observed to be the case using HREELS (Figure 12). The addition of potassium at low coverages induces a uniform and continuous shift in the CO stretching frequency. For such an effect to be observed at OK = .05,the influence of potassium cannot be highly localized.Concluding Remarks The combined use of UHV surface analytical tools and the ability to perform catalytic reactions over sin- (42) J. E. Crowell and G.
A. Somorjai,
Appl. Surf. Sci., 19 73 (1984).
(43) J. E. Crowell,
W. T. Tysoe, and G.
A. Somorjai,
J.
Phys. Chem.,89 1598 (1985). gle-crystal surfaces under conditions that truly ap- proach those of industrial processes have revealed de- tailed characteristics of these systems hitherto unob- tainable. We may divide heterogeneous catalytic re- actions into three classes. Catalysis of the ammonia synthesis reaction is clearly dependent upon the structural details of the metal surface. The need for atomically rough surfaces containing high-coordination hollowing sites where N2 can dissociate has been re- vealed. Reactions of this type cannot occur on single transition-metal atom molecules that are utilized most frequently in homogeneous catalysis. The catalytic hydrogenation of ethylene by Pt and Rh has been shown to occur over an irreducible, carbonaceous overlayer primarily composed of adsorbed ethylidyne.
It has been suggested that this overlayer serves as a medium through which atomic hydrogen, from H2 dissociation by the metal, is transferred to ethylene,weakly adsorbed on the ethylidyne layer. This type of reaction may also occur over homogeneous catalysts.
Coadsorbates modify the rates and product distri- butions of catalytic reactions by blocking sites of high symmetry, by creating new sites, or by charge transfer that changes bonding of reaction intermediates. The examples that were presented include the hydro- desulfurization of thiophene over molybdenum (coad- sorbed sulfur),the conversion of n-hexane over plati- num (coadsorbed gold), and the hydrogenation of CO (coadsorbed potassium).
As the reaction to be catalyzed becomes more com- plex, characteristics that are associated with each of these reaction classes may all be needed simultaneously along with other features only found over oxides or other compound surfaces. Future work will expand to include non-metals (oxides, sulfides, carbides), catalyst deactivation and regeneration, and many other sur- face-related aspects of the catalytic process. Ultimately,the knowledge obtained will allow us to not only un- derstand but also predict catalyst performance and design catalysts for new processes.
This work was supported by the Director, Office of Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences Division, U.S.
Department of Energy, under Contract No. DE-
AC03- 76SF00098.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 