<quotes>

[1] "Studies on dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) over monometallic Pt-SBA-15 catalysts, which contain markedly different Pt particle sizes, reveal that the reaction is dependent on the size of the particle. Catalyst with smaller particles (3 nm) is much more active and less selective than that with larger particles (21 nm). Rate of coking, selectivity to coke formation and the amount of coke formed are sig- nificantly higher over the former than that on the latter."
[2] "The deacti- vated catalyst must frequently be regenerated without los- ing activity, selectivity and stability which increases the process complexity and operation costs."
[3] "Consequently,much research has been devoted to develop dehydrogena- tion catalysts that increase the rate of DHP reaction while diminishing undesired side reactions such as cracking, thus prolonging the life time."
[4] "Accordingly, smaller particles are more active for propane conversion and coke formation while, larger particles are less active for both the reactions but more selective for propene formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is a method for propene production that is dependent on the size of the Pt particle in the catalyst. Smaller Pt particles (3 nm) are more active but less selective for propene formation, leading to higher rates of coking and more coke formation. Larger Pt particles (21 nm) are less active but more selective for propene formation, resulting in lower rates of coking and less coke formation. The deactivation of the catalyst due to coking necessitates frequent regeneration, which increases process complexity and operation costs. Research has been devoted to developing dehydrogenation catalysts that increase the rate of DHP reaction while diminishing undesired side reactions such as cracking, thus prolonging the life time of the catalyst. Strategies to mitigate coke formation and improve catalyst regeneration include using larger Pt particles and developing catalysts with improved selectivity to propene formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化直接脱氢丙烷（PDH）是一种生产丙烯的方法，其依赖于催化剂中Pt粒子的大小。较小的Pt粒子（3 nm）更活跃但对丙烯形成的选择性较低，导致更高的焦化率和更多的焦炭形成。较大的Pt粒子（21 nm）活性较低但对丙烯形成的选择性较高，导致较低的焦化率和较少的焦炭形成。由于焦化导致的催化剂失活需要频繁的再生，这增加了过程的复杂性和操作成本。研究致力于开发脱氢催化剂，以增加DHP反应的速率，同时减少不需要的副反应，如裂化，从而延长催化剂的寿命。减少焦炭形成和改善催化剂再生的策略包括使用较大的Pt粒子和开发具有改进的丙烯形成选择性的催化剂。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
