Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, and rates per vanadium atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains. Selectivity to olefins is optimal at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity depends on the oxide support. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The basicity of the support affects selectivity, with basic metal oxides improving propylene desorption. VOx-SBA-15 systems provide a high concentration of accessible, isolated active sites. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based catalysts, with propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates per molybdenum atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The efficiency and selectivity of these processes are governed by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed significantly influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, determined by the redox potential of the feed, the oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and the reduction rate, is critical. A two-step mechanism for maleic anhydride synthesis from alkanes or alkenes involves oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the availability of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is strongly related to the formation rate of vanadium(V). The preparation procedures of catalysts, particularly the P:V ratio, significantly impact their redox properties and performance. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, characterized by the formation of various crystalline phases, reveals that the P:V ratio is a key parameter for selectivity and activity, with optimal performance at a ratio of 1.1. Surface oxygen concentrations influence the mechanism of selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride, supporting a single-site mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, forming aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy and facilitating alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with theory and spectroscopy developing these relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations cleave CH bonds, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Reduced basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can decompose clusters via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reactive environments. Oxidation states and reactivity are sensitive to hydrocarbon environments, with V(5+) species predominant. The molecular structure is unaffected by preparation methods or oxide support phase. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, with a decrease in these sites and an increase in Br0nsted acid sites upon vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the electronegativity of the oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies by reaction. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify all reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions enable the activation of light alkanes under mild conditions, producing valuable products. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing these factors enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance alkane transformations, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, sharing similar activation energies. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, with initial alkene selectivity enhanced by monovanadate structures at low densities. Increasing surface density leads to poly-vanadate formation and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reactivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia densities, optimizing olefin yields on isolated monovanadate catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga/ZSM-5 activity is enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation, forming reactive GaO+ ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, with a high P/V ratio stabilizing (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhancing performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. 'Equilibrated' catalysts, with stable V4+, are less active but more selective than 'nonequilibrated' catalysts, crucial insights for processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by conventional impregnation or impregnation followed by ammonia washing, significantly impact methane to formaldehyde conversion. High molybdenum loadings lead to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (quote [3]). Ammonia-washed catalysts feature well-dispersed monomeric species (quote [4]). Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity (quote [5]). Conversely, monomeric species offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion (quote [6]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in oxidative hydroxylation, converting benzene to phenol with near 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their potential in organic synthesis. Efficiency in these processes is driven by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant's features.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts efficiency. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Transition metal ions impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species in alkane transformations, influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions, form isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings on alumina surfaces. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K or higher in concentrated feeds. The highest propene selectivity correlates with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike the less active AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. Metals introduced into HZSM-5 cavities, such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for alkane conversion, increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. The introduction of metals affects catalytic activity and selectivity by forming strong Lewis acid sites and regenerating Brnsted acid sites, while reaction conditions influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, the catalyst yields [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species after washing, drying, and calcination. Methane's conversion into methanol and formaldehyde, key in industrial processes due to natural gas reserves, is initiated by the CH bond's weakness caused by zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature. UV and XPS analysis confirms the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD spectra show no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are notably higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers highlight the need for a support in vanadium oxide, emphasizing the role of catalyst structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, through catalytic dehydrogenation using processes like Oleflex. ZSM-5 catalysts are crucial, with Zn-ZSM-5 enhancing BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their stability at high temperatures, highlighting the impact of metal-based catalysts on alkane transformation efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. This regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, achieved through reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption or dehydrogenation followed by protonation, highlights its industrial significance in alkane transformations, as evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation is enhanced in a quasi-inert matrix, affecting efficiency alongside product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism explanation but is insufficient alone. These factors are essential for the industrial significance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then yield propylene and dihydrogen through dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination. Propylene may oligomerize, and dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene, which undergoes further reactions. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 boosts methane activation and benzene yield, with yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. The modified ZSM-5's structure and metal cation addition enhance catalytic activity for methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their structure influences CH bond activation, with both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) playing roles. Propene production is favored at the bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not optimal as the terminal O is overly active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Ethane activation over these catalysts follows distinct pathways: zinc forms acid-base pairs with oxygen, polarizing ethane and enabling heterolytic dissociation, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at elevated temperatures. Zinc activation yields Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium forms dihydride species without such protons, impacting dehydrogenation selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for the selective conversion of alkanes to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, location, and feed composition. Enhancing selectivity and longevity in methane conversion is a key industrial challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2 at densities below 7 VOx/nm2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and 60-70% BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity marginally increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly impact aromatization activity, with reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 being as active for propane aromatization as physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation at 550C generates a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, which is optimal for ethane aromatization and stable under reaction conditions, though it can be reduced by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, with high surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatizing dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, as per quotes [2] and [5]. They facilitate H-atom removal in C-H bond activation, essential for propene formation and aromatization without concurrent cracking, as highlighted in quotes [6] and [9]. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species catalyze H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2), which limits dehydrocyclodimerization rates on H-ZSM5, as noted in quote [3]. These species increase aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations. The selective H-atom removal contributes to high-yield product formation and valuable H2 extraction, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically in ethane dehydrogenation. Two activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Alkane aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction mechanism involves ethane CH bond rupture, facilitated by zinc as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for key steps were computed, showing significant differences. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is a significant challenge. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a widely studied alternative to the conventional three-step process. The nature and dispersion of metal oxides significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show that formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading. Notably, Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2, highlighting the potential of tailored metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite is critical, altering acid sites and impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, calcination temperature, and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic activity. The mode of methane activation and Mo species' role during the reaction are essential for advancing methane chemistry theories. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selective activation of alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on silica at 500 C. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving H-abstraction, is pivotal. Metal-exchanged zeolites, including Ga-, Zn-, Mo-, and Fe-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, directly converting methane to benzene and H2, and oxidizing methane to methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loads, tetrahedral V5+ species dominate, offering superior selectivity compared to octahedral species at higher loads. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V, vary with vanadium content, influencing selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is a pivotal step. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, highlighting the significance of catalyst composition and structure in enhancing reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts are crucial in alkane transformations, with methane conversion and selectivity influenced by the Si/Fe ratio, catalyst form, temperature, and contact time. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for methane oxidation to oxygenates (quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is seen with lower iron content (quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time enhance methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity (quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production peaks at 350°C (quote 11), declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, with Fe(III) in framework sites, is essential for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Supports like silica, alumina, and titania influence selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives, including alkali and alkaline earth metals, modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The presence of alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation steps, and enhancing propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity. Efficient catalyst design involves isolating active sites, as demonstrated by the VOx-SBA-15 system, which provides a high concentration of accessible, structurally well-defined active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, dictates product formation. Vanadium's valence state, contingent on the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates at reaction temperatures, is crucial. Two steps are involved in converting alkanes to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. Excessive Vv promotes carbon oxide formation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods significantly impact redox properties. At low conversion, catalysts exhibit similar selectivity, but at high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio, influences catalytic performance. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is recognized as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Higher phosphorus loading boosts selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity declines. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride. Different hydrocarbons display varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, impacting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, boosting reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, forming Zn alkyl species during dehydrogenation, which synergistically act with Brnsted sites to boost aromatization ability. This direct influence of Zn on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites enhances alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity through the coordination of extraframework metal species. GaO+ oligomerizes in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit high reactivity for heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated with Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various environments, contributing to the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are essential for understanding their reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Preparation methods and the specific oxide support phase impact the molecular structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The bridging V-O-support bond is associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and the number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia and phosphate, can enhance or retard the reduction of surface vanadia species, affecting the TOF and selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics make them industrially significant in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is governed by active site nature, acidity, and pore structure, enabling light alkanes' activation into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts' efficiency for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by surface density and structure. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly impacts reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Smaller values of these ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity at all conversion levels.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. GaO+ ions, formed by oxidizing Ga+ species in ZSM-5 with nitrous oxide and stabilized by steam, enhance dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ ions facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and high-temperature activation/conditioning. Morphology, low-temperature oxygen treatment, and surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups during conditioning are critical. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology impacts oxidizability. Specific additives and low-temperature treatment in oxygen affect performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by Mo loading and species. High Mo loading (>1.3 wt.%) leads to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Treated catalysts with lower methane conversion offer higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. This highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation processes, demonstrating the potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key methane conversion strategy. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation reaches temperatures of 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn increase acidity in HZSM-5, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites rising in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, critical for catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits enhanced activity over traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The grafting reaction, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, improving formaldehyde yield. This innovation is industrially significant for converting methane to methanol or formaldehyde, given vast natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of methane's CH bond through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity. The absence of MoO3 aggregates, typically found in aqueous impregnation, confirms successful grafting.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are higher than observed for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the involvement of a support can lower these barriers, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol and higher hydrocarbons. Higher alkanes transform independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation, crucial in processes akin to Oleflex, uses ZSM-5 catalysts to convert light gases to aromatics, notably BTX. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen during aromatization, boosting BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites, changing alkane activation to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species and acidic OH groups. Zn-modification enhances regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 differing from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role and the isolation of its ions in a stable matrix are critical. Efficiency is also influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity levels. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though not solely sufficient. These factors are essential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, and dihydrogen participates in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. This highlights the importance of metal cations in boosting catalytic activity for dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in achieving high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) highlight that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond of propane, with the bridging O site favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the terminal O's excessive activity on V2O5(001) hinders propene release, underscoring the need for a catalyst that balances CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation paths in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. In contrast, gallium results in weak ethane adsorption, with ethyl and hydride fragments forming at high temperatures, leading to gallium dihydride species. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, impacting reaction efficiency and selectivity, making these catalysts crucial for selective alkane conversion to valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, metal state and location, and feed composition. Ongoing development aims to enhance selectivity and longevity, addressing the need for more effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K. ZSM-5-Zn showed higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn exhibits quasi-equilibrium dehydrogenation, unlike ZSM-5-H's rate-controlled process. Higher space velocity leads to increased BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen diffusion and depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H uses hydride transfer, generating paraffins. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, with dispersion and oxidation state affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts significantly boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, essential for dehydrogenation. These metals facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen, and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, they enhance efficiency and selectivity, particularly in propene formation, increasing desired product yields and reducing by-product formation, which is critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the latter being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol being widely studied as a potential replacement for the conventional three-step process. The nature and dispersion of the metal oxide phase significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are critical. Metal ions' interaction with zeolite support and Mo species' role are pivotal for catalytic performance. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have the opposite effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Mo introduction changes zeolite acid sites, impacting reaction mechanisms. Methane activation mode is debated, with various active sites proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites, notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates for dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction initiates on OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster after OVV site readsorption than after HOVIV site readsorption. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit higher activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content in Fe-ZSM-5 boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is maximized at lower temperatures, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct rates for methanol and carbon dioxide production, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is governed by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, and the valence state under reaction conditions. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced activity with increased V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal vanadium atom reactivity. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, aligning with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, and substituting N2O for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. The extent of V reduction and catalytic performance is support-dependent, with vanadia-silica catalysts showing superior selectivity over alumina or titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants reduce activity but enhance propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts' activity is Mo surface density-dependent, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting initial MoOx reduction, slowing CH bond activation, and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio affect redox properties and selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation influences redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, is crucial for understanding reaction mechanisms. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations. Different hydrocarbons exhibit varying reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, facilitating alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species precedes interaction with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by enhancing alkane conversion towards aromatics. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated extraframework species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights are vital for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability and molecular structure of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, ensure long catalyst life. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, determined by the oxide support's surface point of zero charge and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species can be reduced to vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) in reducing environments. The molecular structures of reduced surface vanadia species can be studied using various spectroscopic methods. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of the V(5) silica-supported vanadia species may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. The specific oxide support phase influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species, but not the long-range order of the oxide substrate. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support can dramatically affect the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives can modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is governed by active site nature, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration techniques counteract deactivation, prolonging catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) show that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of k2/k1 for propane increases with vanadia surface density, unlike ethane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Optimal conditions for high alkene yields include low vanadia surface density and high temperatures, consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions. Monovanadate species at low surface densities show the highest initial alkene selectivity for both reactants. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations. Ga/ZSM-5, upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The Ga2O2 dimer facilitates alkane dehydrogenation through heterolytic dissociation, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, highlighting the catalysts' industrial importance in processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, low-temperature treatment, and additives. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance, enhancing performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Two series were tested: one with polymolybdate species, showing higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, and another with monomeric species, exhibiting lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity. High molybdenum loading leads to predominant polymolybdate species, decreasing dispersion and partially blocking HZSM-5 channels. Monomeric species are specific for formaldehyde production, highlighting their importance in catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, converting benzene to phenol with high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, crucial for advancing organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a pivotal strategy for methane conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a potent catalyst, with enhanced activity through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additives. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect processes yield synthesis gas, followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes produce ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling since 1982 offers direct methane conversion. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to benzene and carbon deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable higher hydrocarbon transformation in two steps. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions, notably Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr, significantly impact catalyst activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' properties are influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings, forming isolated/polymerized VO4 units at lower loads and VO6 octahedra at higher loads. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a highly exothermic reaction peaking at 873 K, is studied under high vanadium loadings to understand the relation between vanadium species properties and catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity, and the AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing efficiency. The acidity ratio, crucial for catalytic activity, increases from HZSM-5 to Ga/ZSM-5, Fe/ZSM-5, and Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, created by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5. Methane's conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, activates the process. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting yields Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS and UV spectra confirm the presence of MoO42species, indicating high dispersion. XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering leading to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significant in industrial catalysis. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, lowers these barriers. The support for vanadium oxide catalysts is essential for further barrier reduction and efficiency enhancement in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes using ZSM-5 catalysts for converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, producing light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, influencing regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction; (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolite changes the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, as evidenced by differing kinetic parameters compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably in quasi-inert matrices, excel in selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency hinges on product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids design and mechanism understanding, yet it's not the sole factor. These elements are pivotal for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene undergoes further reactions over acidic sites, with Zn-containing zeolites showing higher aromatization activity. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, showing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield, which benefits from higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, and metal cations improve dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, highlighting the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Single-crystal V2O5(001) activates CH bonds via radical and oxo-insertion pathways, but its high activity hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance between CH bond activation and propene production for optimal catalyst performance. These catalysts are significant for converting alkanes into olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane for heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences critically affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, enhancing industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for methane conversion, using FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, enhances selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, the efficiency of supported vanadia catalysts is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Higher VOx density boosts initial propene selectivities as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type, VOx density, or structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, while ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate. ZSM-5-Zn's higher hydrogen diffusion rate leads to increased BTX formation at higher space velocities. Aromatics formed over ZSM-5-Zn may result from secondary demethylation reactions. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction to Ga+ and subsequent reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization activity. Reduced gallium in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 is limited by anionic framework sites, showing similar activity for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones in activity and selectivity. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatics production, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, essential for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and enhance propene formation by deactivating acid sites. These species act as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption, improving efficiency and selectivity in aromatization reactions while reducing cracking. Their role in recombinative desorption contributes to high-yield H2 extraction from light alkanes, a significant industrial benefit.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two key activation routes are identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former favored due to lower activation barriers. Zinc cations act as acceptors in the initial CH bond rupture, a critical step in the mechanism. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, highlighting the efficiency of the alkyl activation route. The carbenium activation route is less favorable, with a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the first step.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2, highlighting the importance of metal oxide dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their composition and structure. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite significantly affect catalytic performance and reaction mechanisms. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature are crucial. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The role of Mo species and the modification of zeolite acid sites are pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose challenges for process development, and the status of Mo species during reactions is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene via the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, optimal at around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably those with Mo or Zn, catalyze alkane transformations into alkenes and aromatics, alkylation, and direct methane aromatization. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites can directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, and under oxidizing conditions, catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for optimal olefin selectivity. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but tetrahedral V5+ species offer greater selectivity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a pivotal step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites in bulk surfaces exhibit enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its further oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia being more selective than alumina or titania-supported variants. Additives, such as alkali and alkaline earth metals, modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. In molybdenum oxide catalysts, activity per Mo atom increases with Mo surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, while MoOx domain size impacts Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity by inhibiting MoOx reduction and secondary propylene combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. A two-step reaction mechanism from alkane to maleic anhydride is observed, with the first step controlled by Vw reduction and the second by the availability of Vv. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's complexity, including the P:V ratio, affects selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective conversion. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, with lattice oxygen playing a crucial role in reactivity and interaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The mechanism involves metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for oligomerization and cyclization. Zn or Ga act as portholes, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatic species. Zn species enhance alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, forming Zn-alkyl species that interact with zeolite acid sites for H/D exchange and dehydrogenation. Zn's presence facilitates easier CH bond breaking and formation, promoting aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, leading to alkane dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied, revealing that isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation via binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption, while hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by surface vanadia monolayer stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. Surface vanadia monolayers are robust on typical oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are extensively studied using spectroscopic techniques. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments form surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species formation decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for a reaction depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives influence hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, while acidic and basic additives affect selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique physical and chemical characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the activation of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions enhances efficiency, leading to higher yields. Regeneration methods extend catalyst operational life, vital for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reveal that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, with similar activation energies. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly influences ODH rates and selectivity. Optimal conditions include intermediate vanadia surface densities and high temperatures. Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest alkene yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide oxidation to form reactive gallyl ions, are stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation methods affect (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction. P/V ratios stabilize (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature oxygen treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occur during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition prevents V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, prepared with varying Mo loading, exhibit distinct activities in methane conversion to formaldehyde. High Mo loading leads to polymolybdate species, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Lower Mo loading results in monomeric species, offering higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation of aromatics to hydroxylation products like phenol with high selectivity, demonstrating the efficiency of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations. Catalyst efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are effective for alkane transformations, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been studied to improve catalysts. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4 interaction with surface oxygen. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation has been investigated. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra. Concentrated feeds in catalytic beds can reach temperatures up to 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 enhances catalytic activity, with the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increasing in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant, facilitating reactions like the MTG process and light alkane aromatization, offering economic benefits through mild operating conditions and increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. After grafting and calcination, highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species were obtained, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This is attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to its abundance in natural gas. The initial step in methane activation involves CH bond weakening due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XRD spectra show no aggregates, indicating high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are significantly reduced in supported vanadia, highlighting the support's role in enhancing efficiency. Propane adsorption barriers suggest the necessity of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, emphasizing its importance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing independent conversion. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in aromatics production, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Conversion isn't fully selective, also producing light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, exhibits regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation (Quote 1). Isolating vanadium ions in a stable matrix boosts efficiency (Quote 2), and product stability is essential (Quote 3). Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms (Quotes 4-6) but is not solely sufficient (Quote 7). The type of C-H bond activation and acidity/basicity also play significant roles. These factors are pivotal for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate propyl groups and recombine hydrogen over Zn sites to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Efficiency is influenced by partial pressures, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K achieve high benzene selectivity from methane. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield with increased methane partial pressure. The carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, and metal cations enhance ZSM-5's catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization, highlighting their industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with the latter favoring propene production. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is suboptimal due to excessive terminal O activity, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane via distinct pathways, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, facilitating ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are pivotal for selective alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts are critical in alkane transformations, with efficiency and selectivity influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal form, and feed composition. FePO4 demonstrates effectiveness in CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite excels in methane-to-aromatics conversion, highlighting the role of catalysts in enhancing selectivity and longevity in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As VOx density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivity rises with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Support interactions dictate VOx structures at given densities, but turnover rates are independent of support identity when structure differences are accounted for.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation of aromatics contributes to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within zeolite channels, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, generating dispersed Ga3+ at 550C, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation tests reveal pretreatment effects on catalyst performance. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in zeolite catalysts boost alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H2 formation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, optimizing yields of desired products and minimizing by-products, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored due to lower activation energies, and carbenium activation, which is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations act as acceptors in the alkyl rupture mechanism, enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity in methane's partial oxidation over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, as reported by Banares et al. and Faraldos et al.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite and the channel structure's acidity are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loading, including Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. The Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts is of general significance for understanding reaction pathways and methane activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring small clusters for high selectivity, with silica as the optimal support. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, involving terminal oxo species, is key, as confirmed by DFT calculations. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity favors ethene over oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, increase activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, impacting alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial for both technological and enzymatic reactions. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, hydrogen abstraction initiates at OVV sites, with subsequent abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also participating in hydrogen abstraction without altering overall kinetics. Notably, vanadia sites in bulk surfaces may exhibit greater activity than supported monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), play a critical role in alkane transformations, notably in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content significantly increases methane conversion, whereas the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are pivotal; higher temperatures enhance methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The highest methane conversion (31.51%) was observed with the catalyst having the largest iron content. The sodium form of molecular sieves increases the selectivity of methane oxidation to oxygenates. The highest selectivity for methane to methanol oxidation (about 74%) was obtained with the catalyst containing the least iron. Increasing temperature boosts methane conversion, but extending contact time and raising temperature lower the selectivity of methane oxidation to methanol. Methanol is produced over Fe-ZSM-5 at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymerized VO4 species are active, with the latter more extensively reduced during alkane oxidation. Higher surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity. Using N2O instead of O2 enhances surface reduction and selectivity. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadium oxides being more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones, due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The design of efficient catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation benefits from isolating active sites, as seen in VOx-SBA-15 systems, which offer a high concentration of accessible, structurally defined sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with vanadium's valence state playing a critical role. The alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. A high Vv content risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The P:V ratio is crucial for catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but reducing specific activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's role in n-butane oxidation exemplifies the complex mechanisms, where surface oxygen concentrations guide the selective conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites efficiently catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Zn acts as a porthole, catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energy. Zn species facilitate reversible CH bond breaking, with alkanes dissociatively adsorbing on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species form, enhancing alkane conversion to aromatics. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites activate alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatization. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, optimize catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces promote the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species for optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity. These insights underscore the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is dependent on terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and bridging V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, affecting sensitivity to surface vanadia coverage and additives. Interacting additives, such as basic and acidic species, influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, impacting selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Preparation methods and oxide support phases do not significantly alter the molecular structure or reactivity of surface vanadia species.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which are key in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts efficiently convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing composition and reaction conditions boosts yields, while novel regeneration methods combat deactivation, enhancing industrial application and operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities influence ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal ethene and propene formation rates occur at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impact reaction rates and selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity, with the highest olefin yields obtained at the highest possible reaction temperatures on catalysts with isolated monovanadates. Persistent controversies in the field are attributed to a lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion in the MTG process. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, enhanced by nitrous oxide to form reactive GaO+ ions, are crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while specific additives enhance performance. Morphology impacts oxidizability, with excess phosphorus on the (100) plane forming a less oxidizable phase. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, improving efficiency over time. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, aiding V4+ stability. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal in alkane transformations, display efficiency variations linked to composition and structure. Two series were examined: conventionally prepared catalysts featured tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%) reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, had well-dispersed monomeric species (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), whereas treated catalysts exhibited lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, underscoring the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, showcasing high efficiency. Catalyst performance is influenced by zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant properties, highlighting its potential for organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts are noted for their efficiency, with activity boosts observed by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modifications have been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts and supported Pt catalysts facilitates higher hydrocarbon formation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and transition metal ions supported HZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidative conditions enable methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. VO4 units form at lower vanadium loadings, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings, affecting catalytic activity. Propane dehydrogenation is exothermic, with optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species enhances propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, increasing acidity in the order: HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These species are vital for catalytic efficiency, enabling reactions such as the MTG process and light alkane aromatization. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal stability and reducibility, affect selectivity and conversion, making these catalysts economically viable for petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits superior activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5 and calcination, this process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, avoiding MoO3 aggregates. The catalyst's efficiency in MPO is attributed to the dispersion and nature of the supported phase, with formaldehyde selectivity enhanced due to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant, with the CH bond's weakness, initiated by interaction with the zeolite surface, playing a key role in the activation mechanism. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 reducing CO selectivity. The new catalyst's structure and composition, achieved through grafting, offer potential for efficient catalysis in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which are reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers, though high, are larger than those observed for supported vanadia, suggesting more complex reactions like concerted O2 adsorption may lower them. The need for a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, to reduce barriers such as propane adsorption, underscores its importance in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes, central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite alter alkane activation mechanisms, promoting regioselective H/D exchange in propane's methyl groups. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including isolated vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are crucial for selective alkane oxidation. Product stability, multifunctional catalyst design, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity impact efficiency. Multifunctionality alone is insufficient for optimal performance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene can oligomerize over acidic sites, and dihydrogen may participate in hydrogenolysis. Reactant pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to chemicals and fuel is a significant catalysis challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions show high activity and selectivity for benzene production. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. Metal cations boost ZSM-5's catalytic activity, improving methane dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. A carbenium ion mechanism contributes to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high-selectivity and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their structure influences CH bond activation and propene production, with DFT calculations on V2O5(001) showing that while both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate CH bonds, the terminal O site's high activity hinders propene release, affecting efficiency. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc-modified HZSM-5 exhibits strong polarizability and heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons. Gallium-modified HZSM-5 shows weaker adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing industrial processes for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is critical for enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify catalysts for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by the active metal state, feed composition, pretreatment conditions, and reaction temperature, underscoring the need for optimized catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The primary mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike rate-controlled ZSM-5-H. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Some C1-C3 hydrocarbons may originate from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts influence aromatization activity, with ion-exchanged gallium reducing to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which generate optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H-atom removal essential for propene and H2 production. Acting as 'portholes', they enhance efficiency and selectivity in aromatization reactions, minimizing cracking turnover rates. This selective H-atom removal significantly boosts industrial processes by increasing yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane dehydrogenation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more efficient due to lower activation barriers. The first step in alkane aromatization involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate alkyl rupture, enhancing selectivity for industrial processes. The alternative carbenium route has a significantly higher activation barrier, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing traditional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. A MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. In W/HZSM-5 catalysts, formaldehyde selectivity is related to tungsten oxide dispersion, which is influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are essential. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings, including Ru, Pt, and W, enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development, posing a challenge in methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, with silica as the optimal support for high selectivity within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive, confirmed by DFT calculations showing H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), particularly Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity rising and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of butane oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts with tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower V loadings, exhibit higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas those with octahedral V5+ species, dominant at higher loadings, show greater activity. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V loadings and both Lewis and Brønsted at high loadings, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction primarily at OVV sites and secondarily at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene formation. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites participating without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time elevate methane conversion but lower methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Sodium form catalysts produce methanol more rapidly than carbon dioxide, but formaldehyde and carbon dioxide formation is quicker than with hydrogen form catalysts. XRD patterns confirm Fe(III) framework incorporation, affecting reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Efficient catalyst design benefits from isolated active sites, with isomorphous substitution into microporous and mesoporous materials as a strategy. However, high V contents can compromise structure stability. In propane ODH, VOx-SBA-15 systems with a large concentration of accessible, isolated active sites perform well. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of reactants modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, controlled by feed redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, is crucial for selectivity in maleic anhydride synthesis. This process involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, with Vw reduction and Vv availability governing selectivity. Catalyst preparation methods determine redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion rates. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system exhibits phase interconversion, with preparation variables affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is crucial for optimal performance, influencing selectivity and activity. Active phases like vanadyl pyrophosphate are key in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases maleic anhydride selectivity, while specific activity decreases. PVO's intercalation chemistry and phase stability affect catalytic performance. The V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane selectivity. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varied surface effects, with oxygen balances revealing the role of Vv phosphate as an oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting the equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species enhance H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites affect reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing these relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated species, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Dimeric gallium species facilitate H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can reduce reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as shown in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights underscore the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by factors such as monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports correlates with the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being key factors. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures without causing homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion into gasoline. Cationic clusters, particularly involving extraframework oxygen atoms, enhance alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by their composition and structure. Polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading, enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity due to decreased dispersion and channel blocking. In contrast, monomeric species show specificity for formaldehyde production, despite lower methane conversion, demonstrating the impact of molybdenum species on catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, achieving high selectivity in the conversion of benzene to phenol. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by iron's role and the zeolite matrix's composition, suggesting advancements in organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites influence active species and mechanisms. Oxygen use in conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Two-step routes and PtCrO3/HZSM-5 catalysts achieve methane aromatization. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods impact catalysts, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by vanadium loadings, preparation method, and environmental conditions, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Lower loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while VO6 octahedra form at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit lower catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 form active species, enhancing catalytic activity. The acidity ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly impact efficiency. Industrially, these catalysts are crucial for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering benefits such as mild conditions, reduced energy use, and higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts, enhancing formaldehyde yield. Methane, abundant in natural gas, converts to methanol or formaldehyde, key for liquid fuels and synthetic organic methods. Methane activation starts with CH bond weakening due to zeolite surface interaction. Isolated MoO42species, formed by grafting and calcination, boost formaldehyde yield. The grafting method avoids water, yielding dispersed oxo species unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies indicate high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are higher than observed for supported vanadia. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. The need for a support to reduce propane adsorption barriers highlights its role in enhancing catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, like propane and butane, are converted to aromatics using ZSM-5 catalysts, central to processes converting light gases to aromatics. BTX selectivity is enhanced by hydrogen release as dihydrogen on Zn-ZSM-5. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts are favored over Zn-ZSM-5 due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Selectivity challenges remain, with light alkenes also being formed.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselectivity are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical for selective oxidation [1]. The isolation of vanadium ions in a quasi-inert matrix enhances efficiency [2]. Multifunctionality is essential for catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms [5][6], though not solely sufficient [7]. The type of C-H bond activation, acidity, and basicity also influence performance [8][9]. Product stability is another key factor. These elements are vital for the industrial significance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites are key in alkane transformations, particularly for methane conversion under non-oxidizing conditions. These catalysts show high activity and selectivity for benzene production, with Mo and Zn crucial for methane activation. Increasing methane partial pressure enhances benzene yield, highlighting the impact of reaction conditions. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, underlining the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring easier propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely influence alkane transformations. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, polarizing ethane at room temperature and enabling heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, forming ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These distinct activation mechanisms directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, and are crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion. FePO4 facilitates CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. Enhancing selectivity and prolonging catalyst life are critical in industrial catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but crystallizes on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom increase with VOx surface density, peaking on intermediate-sized domains. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity, attributed to hydrogen diffusion and local concentration depletion favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal essential for H2 formation and enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. This enhances efficiency by allowing acid sites to turnover without producing cracking by-products, increasing propene and aromatic yields. Ga and Zn species increase H2 selectivity from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes, by catalyzing recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two key routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the zinc cation facilitating the alkyl route. The activation energies for the three steps in the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The carbenium route, though less favorable due to a high activation barrier, provides context. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol is a studied route to replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, influencing methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, impacted by metal loading, as demonstrated in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Metal loading, such as Ru, Pt, and W, boosts reactivity and stability. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic behavior. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo introduction affect zeolite properties. Carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes like propene. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites can activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and directly aromatize methane. Notably, M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ species exhibit higher activity, but selectivity is greater with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting catalytic efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica facilitate propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites for the first step and potential at VOSi bridging oxygen for the second, without altering overall kinetics. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia on bulk surfaces exhibits higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion (Quote 9) but lower methanol selectivity (Quote 10), with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    