Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, and optimal VOx domain size balances surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity by influencing parallel propane combustion. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Mo modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Catalysts like VCoAPO-18, with both acid and redox sites, achieve high ethylene selectivities. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show activity dependent on Mo surface density and domain size, with basic oxides affecting MoOx structure and electronic properties, impacting propylene combustion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Redox properties of the feed modify the catalyst's surface, affecting product formation. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface are pivotal for understanding selectivity. The two-step reaction mechanism for maleic anhydride production involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw and Vv states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio in the PVO system significantly impact performance. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. The intercalation chemistry and stability of PVO phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase are crucial for n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio influences selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze recombinative desorption of H atoms as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn's direct influence on alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites is crucial for enhanced alkane conversion to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with mechanisms and efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, critical for catalytic performance optimization. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations exhibit significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, enhancing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors like surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures the longevity of industrial catalysts. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species and the influence of the oxide support and polymerization. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface vanadia species are associated with Lewis acid sites, and their formation decreases the number of Lewis acid sites while increasing Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are linked to dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) state. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, and changing the oxide support affects the turnover frequency (TOF). The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic species, can influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, particularly the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases for propane. Higher alkene yields are achieved with catalysts rich in isolated monovanadates at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces affect reaction rates and selectivity. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects showed inconsistencies due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadia/alumina with a wide range of surface densities was conducted, contrasting results with propane. This analysis, combined with structural characterization, reveals the influence of local structure on rate constants. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species by nitrous oxide in ZSM-5 forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and reduction of V5+ are affected by the preparation method. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, and morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with higher Mo loadings (>1.3 wt.%) leading to predominant polymolybdate species that decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels. The second series, treated with ammonia, had a well-dispersed monomeric Mo phase. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process converts benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. Progress in this area could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics under controlled conditions, avoiding deep oxidation and undesirable CO/CO2 formation. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhance catalyst activity and stability. Zeolite micropore modification improves performance. Indirect processes, involving synthesis gas production, and direct routes to ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics are explored. Oxidative coupling of methane and non-oxidative conditions are studied for direct conversion. Surface oxygen species interact with CH4, facilitating CH bond splitting. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites show promise in methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by vanadium loadings, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher with concentrated feeds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species at high temperatures and loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High propene selectivity is achieved with high dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both of which are active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike the AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 with low catalytic activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 cavities by sublimation form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in petrochemicals. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Grafting yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis confirm the presence of MoO42species, while XRD spectra show no aggregates, indicating high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. This new catalyst, with isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers (45-80 kcal/mol) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which are lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions involving O2 adsorption. Support involvement is crucial for reducing barriers like propane adsorption, impacting efficiency. These insights into catalyst composition, structure, and reaction conditions are significant for industrial catalysis, particularly in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with ZSM-5 being pivotal in aromatization processes. Selectivity is a challenge, as light alkenes are also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization issues at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism of alkane activation and transformation in regioselective H/D exchange of propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role as the preferred element in selective oxidation is highlighted, with its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix being critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality serves as a design criterion and a mechanism explanation tool, yet it's insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions to aromatics. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemicals and fuels is a significant challenge and opportunity in catalysis science. Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, with metal incorporation enhancing catalytic activity. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in achieving high selectivity and stability for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The CH bond activation and propene production are influenced by the catalyst's composition and structure. Single-crystal V2O5(001) demonstrates that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, but efficient catalysts must balance CH bond activation with propene release. The industrial value of these catalysts lies in their ability to convert alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand for these valuable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct activation mechanisms. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption of ethane at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without forming Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes converting alkanes into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. Examples include FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, where factors like pretreatment and temperature significantly impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion over ZSM-5-Zn, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Ga3+ dispersion and oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. These species facilitate H2 formation by catalyzing the recombinative desorption of H-atoms from dehydrogenation steps, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity, and increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. This results in higher yields of desired products and reduced by-products, contributing to industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. A study on ethane dehydrogenation to ethene revealed two activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction mechanism starts with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace traditional processes. Metal oxide dispersion significantly affects catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies show selectivities above 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, relates to formaldehyde selectivity in W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are critical. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 zeolite, crucial for catalytic performance, changes acid sites, impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Select metal loading enhances reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. Methane activation modes and carbonaceous deposit formation remain contentious, hindering process development. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is pivotal for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Silica optimally supports isolated centers, crucial for high selectivity, within a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, with metalalkyl intermediates. Ga-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange and forming Gaalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is a critical step in these processes. For propane oxidative dehydrogenation, monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica are modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Vanadyl sites are involved in the rate-determining step, and second hydrogen abstraction can occur at VOSi bridging oxygen sites without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites integrated into bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), impact methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Key factors include the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. Catalysts' performance is support-dependent, with silica-supported vanadia showing higher selectivity than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at specific Mo surface densities. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, with basic oxides inhibiting MoOx reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the redox potential of the feed, oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are key steps, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratio and P:V ratio of 1.1 are crucial for selectivity and activity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst, affecting product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange in C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or by alkane dissociative adsorption. Zn-alkyl species form on high Zn content zeolites at small ZnO clusters. Deuterated alkane adsorption on Zn oxide sites leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups. Protonation of Znalkyl by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitates protium transfer from SiOHAl to deuterated alkane. Only methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes participate in the exchange. Zn species influence alkane CH bond activation by zeolite acid sites. Znalkyl interaction with acid sites enables H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds. The mechanism leads to alkane dehydrogenation. Zn-modified zeolites enhance alkane conversion to aromatics. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to the need for optimal coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species are reactive in heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Water addition enhances dehydrogenation activity by increasing reactive oxygenated extraframework species concentration, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, molecular structures, and the specific oxide support phase. The monolayer's stability ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease and surface Br0nsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure play key roles in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their industrial value lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both reactants. The ratio of alkane combustion to ODH rate constants is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. The ratio of alkene combustion to ODH decreases with temperature for both reactants. Highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity due to acid-base properties. Previous studies on vanadia surface density and structure effects on ODH rates and selectivities have inconsistent results, partly due to lack of detailed characterization and kinetic analysis. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane ODH on vanadia/alumina samples with a wide range of surface densities was reported, contrasting results with propane. This analysis, combined with structural characterization, relates local structure to rate constants. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom are influenced by vanadia surface density, peaking at intermediate densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences ODH rates and selectivity. As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites appear. The highest alkene yields are obtained at high temperatures on catalysts with isolated monovanadate species.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal cations in MFI zeolites, like gallium, zinc, and platinum, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like aromatization and methane conversion. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions, and steam stabilizes these ions, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water facilitates the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen atom pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve catalyst stability. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. These factors are key to the industrial significance of these catalysts in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and the other by impregnation and ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. High Mo loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity, despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, catalyze selective oxidation reactions, exemplified by the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics. This process, using dinitrogen monoxide, achieves nearly 100% selectivity for phenol production from benzene at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts facilitate methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation is acknowledged, with efforts to suppress CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation methods, support types, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high temperatures, linking phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites forms active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for catalytic efficiency. These catalysts are significant in the petrochemical industry for reactions such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, play a critical role in selectivity and conversion of alkanes under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The reaction between the complex and zeolite surface OH groups yields highly dispersed MoO42species, improving formaldehyde yield. The CH bond weakness in methane, due to interaction with the zeolite surface, initiates the activation mechanism. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species. XRD spectra show no aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity. The new catalyst's specific activity of isolated MoO42species significantly boosts formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high barriers for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium oxide, which are somewhat reduced when considering a triplet state. These barriers, ranging 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants' energy, are larger than those observed experimentally for supported vanadia. More complex reactions, like concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Others, such as for propane adsorption, require vanadium oxide catalyst support for reduction, highlighting the importance of catalyst structure and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with processes like Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming central to dehydrogenation of propane and butane to alkenes. These processes, using catalysts like ZSM-5, convert light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, with some light alkenes also formed. On Zn-ZSM-5, hydrogen lost during aromatization is released as dihydrogen, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering the mechanism to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, indicating a mechanism shift that differentiates kinetic parameters from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium favored for selective oxidation. The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix is critical. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms but is insufficient alone. These factors are crucial for the industrial viability of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemicals and fuels is a significant challenge and opportunity. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane-to-benzene conversion at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Mo and Zn incorporation in ZSM-5 enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These findings highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The CH bond activation in propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) can occur via terminal or bridging lattice O atoms, with both radical and oxo-insertion pathways at the terminal O site, and only oxo-insertion at the bridging O site. Propene production is easier at the bridging O due to weaker propoxide binding. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc promotes strong ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at moderate temperatures, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. FePO4 is used for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. Secondary propene oxidation rates do not depend on support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity (60-70%). The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to higher BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Part of the C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn may arise from secondary demethylation of aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, particularly for propane. Reduced catalysts perform similarly to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at high temperatures generates a dispersed, higher-energy Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. This Ga3+ is stable under reaction conditions but can revert to Ga+ with hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects. Pretreatments significantly impact catalyst performance in ethane dehydrogenation. To maximize aromatics yield, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', improving propene formation and reducing cracking products, thus increasing selectivity and efficiency. These enhancements contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct ethane activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism initiates with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1 for the initial step. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial processes like Cyclar.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are key. Metal ions interact with zeolite supports, influencing aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Certain metals enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions greatly influence catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Introducing Mo species and a second metal changes zeolite acid sites. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbon deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities in oxidative dehydrogenation, which operates best at around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites being industrially significant. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites containing MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring exclusively on OVV sites. The second abstraction can also happen on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are higher after readsorption on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface rather than supported monomers.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation processes. The performance of these catalysts is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 leads to a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios. Support type, such as silica, alumina, or titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. The selectivity order follows the increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show increased activity with higher Mo surface density, but their performance is lower than vanadia-based catalysts. The size of MoOx domains affects Mo O strength, with stronger bonds showing lower activity. Alkali dopants influence MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting propylene combustion, thus increasing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of reactants influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. In maleic anhydride synthesis, a two-step mechanism is observed: oxidative dehydrogenation to butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system forms various V(IV) and V(V) phases, with preparation conditions affecting crystallinity and defect structure. The P:V ratio is key, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing activity. The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction, a complex 14-electron oxidation, is influenced by the P:V ratio, oxidation state, and PVO structure. PVO exhibits intercalation chemistry, forming layered solids. Stability and reactivity of PVO phases, such as a-VOP04 and p-VOP04, affect catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing best performance. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Oxygen balances in but-1-ene and n-butane oxidation reveal the Vv phosphate as the oxygen source, highlighting differences in hydrocarbon reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing alkane conversion is controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites. Zn or Ga catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, essential for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium species forming due to optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. However, hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. In situ Raman studies reveal insights into the behavior of surface vanadia species during reactions, including the role of the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the acidic characteristics of the overlayer are influenced by the oxide support ligand. The reactivity is associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the bridging V-O-support bond, which is critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule, and interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the TOF and selectivity of reactions. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique properties contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities, making them industrially significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation is higher at low surface densities, favoring isolated monovanadate species. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions include high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Surface density impacts the formation of poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yield is achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. Spectroscopic results suggest distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities. Increasing surface densities lead to polyvanadate formation and three-dimensional structures. The rate per V atom increases with surface density, even as V atoms become less available for catalysis. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreases with vanadia surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, impacting processes like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation/conditioning techniques. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology impacts oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen can alter performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species; the other, by impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulting in a dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species, predominant at higher molybdenum loadings, decrease dispersion and block zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but reducing formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, particularly Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, notably the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, exemplified by the conversion of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlights the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in enhancing catalyst efficiency. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene using transition metal supported zeolite catalysts is a key strategy for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Catalyst modification focusing on zeolite micropores has been extensively studied. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been a focus since 1982. Methane activation over multi-component catalysts forms benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, and vanadium loadings, play a critical role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. At lower coverages, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. This exothermic reaction reaches maximum temperatures of 873 K or higher. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, influence the nature of active species and catalytic performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This process yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, crucial for methane activation by weakening the CH bond. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. The catalyst's structure, involving isolated MoO42species, significantly improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The reaction between the complex and zeolite surface OH groups results in highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregated MoO3 from aqueous impregnation. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, while high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts reduces CO selectivity. The new catalyst's design offers an advantageous combination of properties for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are notably higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using metal-based catalysts, with ZSM-5 being pivotal in aromatization processes. Conversion to aromatics, especially BTX, isn't fully selective, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts are preferred for their stability at high temperatures, crucial for aromatization reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium, as the preferred element, and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix, enhance selective oxidation of alkanes. Multifunctionality, crucial for catalyst design and reaction mechanism, complements product stability and C-H bond activation. Acidity and basicity also play significant roles. These factors collectively boost the efficiency and industrial relevance of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to chemical products and liquid fuel is a promising natural gas utilization method, posing a significant catalysis science challenge. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity for benzene production from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. Metal-based catalysts, like modified ZSM-5 with Mo or Zn, significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. The addition of metal cations boosts ZSM-5's catalytic activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization under non-oxidizing conditions. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, enabling high selectivity and stability in converting methane to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, with the bridging O site facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, V2O5(001) is not an ideal catalyst as the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation proceeds via distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane polarizability, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation forms Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium results in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion, with a need for higher selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition. FePO4 is used for CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite converts methane to aromatics, demonstrating the role of specific catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity and VOx structure. The rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with cracking as a concurrent reaction. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon formation, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly affect aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites, enhancing propane aromatization similarly to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reduced Ga/ZSM-5 is less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which generate optimal, dispersed Ga3+ for aromatics production from ethane. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Gallium's dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels impact alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these effects. Catalysts for high aromatics yields often include rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but the most active catalyst for aromatics does not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate H-atom removal, crucial for dihydrogen formation, and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn species act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, improving efficiency and selectivity. Their addition to H-ZSM5 channels boosts aromatic turnover while reducing cracking, leading to higher yields of desired products and less by-product formation. This selective H-atom removal contributes to the extraction of valuable H2 from light alkanes, enhancing industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as shown by Banares et al.'s MoO3/SiO2 catalyst achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates formaldehyde selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions are crucial. Zeolite structure, acidity, and Mo species' valence and location are key for catalytic performance. Metal loading influences reactivity and stability, with preparation methods and calcination temperature affecting performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, like temperature and pressure, greatly impact catalytic activity. Mo's interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid site changes due to Mo and second metal addition alter reaction pathways. Methane activation modes are debated, with carbonaceous deposits hindering understanding and process development. Mo species' role during reaction is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities due to its stabilization of isolated centers. Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species offering higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brnsted at high vanadium loadings, also vary, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane as a model catalyst. Hydrogen abstraction occurs at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with propene formation rates higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, with VOSi sites also participating without altering overall kinetics. Vanadia sites in bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, affect methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol occurs with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but lowers methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, featuring spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium and molybdenum oxides, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impacting efficiency. The degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties are key factors. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalysts' performance is influenced by the specific oxide support, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. The size of MoOx domains impacts Mo O strength, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, influencing catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications induced by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact selectivity and activity. The synthesis of maleic anhydride involves a two-step process: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties. At high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its various crystalline phases, is influenced by preparation variables, P:V ratio, and oxidation states. Optimal V4+/V5+ ratios enhance selectivity in n-butane oxidation. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase. Higher phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations. The reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes differ, with lattice oxygen serving as the oxygen source.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, aiding H/D exchange and dehydrogenation steps, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates the structure-activity relationship, critical for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory developing structure-activity relationships. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination of Ga3+ promotes H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to less reactive sites. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights highlight the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. The molecular structure of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support's surface point of zero charge, plays a critical role. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in environments with hydrogen and carbon monoxide, forming vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments, with in situ Raman spectroscopy revealing insights into their behavior. The stability of V(5) surface vanadia species on silica supports, attributed to the presence of isolated species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The specific oxide support influences the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species minimally. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds do, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions varies, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, especially basic ones, can retard surface vanadia reduction and decrease TOFs, while acidic additives can have diverse effects on selectivity. The unique properties of supported vanadia catalysts contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which activate and transform light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at given temperatures, with similar activation energies. Surface density impacts the ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates, which is independent for ethane but increases for propane. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Oxide domain size and support influence rates and selectivity through acid-base properties. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity. Optimal alkene yields are achieved with high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, with ethene and propene formation rates peaking at intermediate densities. The highest alkene yield is for catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is critical for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair formed by Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. The morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and the extent of V5+ reduction are affected by the preparation technique. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface enrichment of phosphorus prevent overoxidation. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, stabilizing V4+. Catalysts with a slight phosphorus excess balance reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity. These factors contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling selective paraffin activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were prepared in two series for methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Conventional impregnation produced tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, with higher loadings (>1.3 wt.%) causing dispersion issues and channel blocking. Ammonia-washed catalysts featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts had higher formaldehyde selectivity but lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, iron's role, the zeolite matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties. This promising hydroxylation process could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, Pt, and PtCrO3, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between transition metal components and zeolite supports, enhancing the conversion of methane to higher hydrocarbons and aromatics. Catalyst modification, particularly in zeolite micropores, significantly improves activity and stability. Transition metals like Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu augment catalyst performance. Mo exhibits the highest activity for methane aromatization, followed by W, Fe, V, and Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern. The interaction between CH4 and surface oxygen species initiates the transformation. Direct conversion routes for methanol and formaldehyde are also explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties are shaped by preparation techniques, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings yield isolated and polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings result in VO6 octahedra. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strongly exothermic process, reaches peak temperatures of 873 K or higher. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species maximizes propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 exhibit low activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation forms active species like (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and Zn2+ cations, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, with the strength of Lewis sites following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors are essential for the efficiency of alkane transformations. Industrially, these catalysts are significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, which are vital for the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, specifically MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly enhance the efficiency of methane partial oxidation (MPO) reactions, crucial for converting methane into methanol and formaldehyde. This new catalyst, prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) species, improving formaldehyde yield compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. The mechanism involves the interaction of methane with the zeolite surface, weakening the CH bond, and the presence of isolated MoO42species. The process is industrially relevant due to the abundance of methane in natural gas reserves and the potential of methanol and formaldehyde as liquid fuels and synthetic organic components.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, significantly higher than experimental values for supported vanadia. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Reducing others, such as for propane adsorption, likely requires a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst, highlighting factors influencing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably propane and butane, are converted to more valuable products, including aromatics like BTX, through catalytic processes. ZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal in these transformations, particularly in aromatization reactions. During aromatization, part of the hydrogen is released as dihydrogen, enhancing BTX selectivity. Gallium-containing ZSM-5 catalysts are favored over zinc-containing ones due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These processes, including Oleflex and Cyclar, convert light gases to aromatics, with light alkenes also forming as intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolites act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation and transformation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange in propane are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification changes the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with vanadium being the preferred element for selective oxidation (Quote 1). The isolation of vanadium ions in a stable matrix (Quote 2) and multifunctionality (Quote 4) enhance efficiency, aiding in catalyst design (Quote 5A) and elucidating reaction mechanisms (Quote 5B). However, multifunctionality alone is insufficient (Quote 5C). C-H bond activation type (Quote 8) and acidity/basicity (Quote 9) also significantly impact process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen's role shifts with pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to products like benzene, using Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising natural gas utilization method. The incorporation of Mo or Zn in ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, especially under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation. These catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization, is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, contributing to their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) reveal that while both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond, the terminal O site is too active for propene release, making it unsuitable as a catalyst. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct ethane activation mechanisms. Zinc-modified catalysts exhibit strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures and Brnsted acid proton formation. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts show weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. The absence of Brnsted acid protons in the gallium case affects dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, impacting hydrocarbon conversions. These catalysts are industrially significant for selective alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are notable for producing CH3OH, HCHO, and converting methane to aromatics, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are modulated by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the metal's active form and location, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency on supports like Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2 are influenced by vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms highly dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decline with VOx domain growth. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Optimal oxidative dehydrogenation rates occur on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support type or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. C1-C3 hydrocarbons may result from secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 can reduce gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates optimal Ga3+ for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Gallium's dispersion and oxidation state within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing propane conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption. They facilitate hydrogen disposal, forming dihydrogen (H2), and allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting propene formation. This improves selectivity and yields of desired products, reducing by-product formation. Recombinative desorption contributes to efficient H2 extraction from light alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations, specifically ethane dehydrogenation to ethene. Two distinct activation routes were identified: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first step in ethane and propane aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. The carbenium activation route is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, essential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic conversion of methane to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts' composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly influence alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized conditions are key. The channel structure and acidity of HZSM-5 zeolite, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic performance. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly affect catalytic efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction and second metal addition. Methane activation modes are debated, with various active sites and mechanisms proposed. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development. The Mo species' role in the reaction pathway is significant for methane chemistry and activation theory development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica is the optimal support for achieving high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, enhancing selectivity, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. The activation of CH bonds is a critical step in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs primarily on OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites for isopropyl alcohol or propene. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with the lowest iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, with methanol production favored at lower temperatures. Methanol concentration drops at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The catalyst's structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and characteristic XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. These factors collectively influence the efficiency and selectivity of alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Both isolated and polymeric VO4 species are active, with polymerized forms more extensively reduced during alkane oxidation. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced and selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. The isolation of active sites is crucial, as demonstrated by the VOx-SBA-15 system, which provides a high concentration of accessible, structurally defined sites. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The change in vanadium's valence state is determined by the feed's redox potential, the catalyst's oxidation rate at reaction temperature, and its reduction rate. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are crucial. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by Vw reduction rate, and further oxidation, controlled by the amount of Vv. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the formation rate of vanadium(V). Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties. At low conversion, catalysts show similar selectivity, but at high conversion, the more oxidizable catalyst decomposes maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's active phase is influenced by synthesis variables, with the P:V ratio affecting catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is necessary for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxides can dehydrogenate n-butane to olefins, which then form partial oxidation products. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentration, suggesting a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of C4 alkenes and alkanes with the catalyst surface differ, with Vv phosphate acting as the oxygen source in both cases, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing conversion remains controversial. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores adsorb alkanes, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn cations or Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation. Zn-alkyl species form on high Zn content zeolites. Dissociative adsorption of deuterated alkanes on Zn oxide sites leads to Znalkyl and ZnOD groups. Protonation of Znalkyl by zeolite's acidic OH group facilitates protium transfer. The mechanism involves methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes. Zn species influence alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites. Znalkyl interaction with acid sites provides H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization. The intermediate state, involving zeolite acid sites and alkane-and-Zn sites, leads to dehydrogenation. Zn-modified zeolites enhance alkane conversion to aromatics. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane transformations, with their composition, structure, and reaction conditions impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, crucial for catalytic performance optimization. In zeolites, confined space reactivity is studied through spectroscopy and theory, developing structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing cationic species' stability and reactivity in high-silica zeolites are governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species catalyze ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity. These insights underscore metal-based catalysts' industrial significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by the stability and molecular structures of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The surface vanadia monolayer's stability ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structures have been extensively studied. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the presence of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V, and V-O-support bonds, with the latter being critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives influence reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives affect all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure are key factors. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with efficiency enhanced by optimizing composition and conditions. Novel regeneration methods can mitigate deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia's catalytic properties were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, revealing that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. Increasing vanadia surface density initially enhances ethene and propene formation rates, peaking at intermediate densities. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. The stabilization energy for ethoxide species is higher relative to isopropoxide, affecting propene formation. These findings highlight the complex interplay between vanadia structure, surface density, and reaction conditions in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by the preparation method, affecting (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction; P/V ratio, stabilizing (VO)P207; morphology, impacting oxidizability; and additives and low-temperature treatment, affecting performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts selectively activate paraffins, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure influence alkane transformation efficiency. Two series were tested: one prepared by conventional impregnation, yielding tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, with high Mo loading causing dispersion decrease and channel blocking. The second series, prepared with aqueous impregnation and ammonia washing, resulted in a well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, exemplified by the oxidation of benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the nature of zeolite catalytic activity, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's specific features. This process holds promise for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts enable methane dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy in methane conversion. Studies reveal the role of carbonaceous deposits and the synergetic effect between metal components and zeolite supports, affecting active species and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion processes leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane, explored since 1982, is an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts under non-oxidative conditions. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' molecular structure and catalytic properties on surfaces are influenced by preparation method, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. Depending on vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form at lower coverages, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with maximum temperatures around 873 K observed in catalytic beds. Studies focus on vanadium oxide species' nature and properties at high vanadium loadings, relating phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion to catalytic performance. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species achieves the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The introduction of metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 by sublimation forms active species such as (GaO)+, (HOFeOFeOH)2+, and binuclear Fe3+ ions, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for efficiency. These catalysts are significant in the petrochemical industry for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and atmosphere, influence active species and catalytic performance. The presence of strong Lewis acid sites and regenerated Brnsted acid sites affects selectivity and conversion of alkanes, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale production under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process, crucial for converting methane into methanol or formaldehyde, is scientifically and industrially significant due to the abundance of natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with the weakening of the CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. The catalyst's high dispersion of molybdenum(VI) species, achieved by avoiding water during grafting, improves formaldehyde yield. The reaction between the complex and zeolite surface OH groups yields isolated oxo species, unlike the aggregates formed by aqueous impregnation. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity. This novel catalyst design, with its specific activity for isolated MoO42species, significantly boosts the efficiency of methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol above reactants, which are significantly higher than experimental findings. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, such as O2 adsorption during water elimination, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers may require support for vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighting the role of support in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation central to converting propane and butane to alkenes and aromatics, especially BTX, using catalysts such as ZSM-5. Selectivity is a challenge, as light alkenes are also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 improves BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, demonstrates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by incorporated Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This changes the mechanism of alkane activation, favoring hydrogen removal. Two proposed mechanisms include propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification leads to regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored in alkane selective oxidation, excels when isolated in a quasi-inert matrix, impacting oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity are pivotal, with multifunctionality aiding catalyst design and mechanism understanding, albeit insufficient alone. These elements are crucial for industrial applications, enhancing efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption over Zn oxide species, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalytic site. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Mo-modified ZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and benzene yield, which increases with higher methane partial pressure. The dehydrogenation and aromatization of methane on these catalysts follow a carbenium ion mechanism. These factors, alongside improved catalytic activity from metal cation addition, contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The activation of propane's CH bond by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms on V2O5(001) surfaces reveals that both radical and oxo-insertion pathways are viable, with the latter being more favorable for propene production at the bridging O site. However, single-crystal V2O5(001) is not an efficient catalyst due to the terminal O's excessive activity, hindering propene release. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5, influence alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms. Zinc-modified catalysts enable strong ethane adsorption, polarizing molecules at room temperature and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. In contrast, gallium-modified catalysts weakly adsorb ethane, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments coordinating to gallium, forming gallium dihydride without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion to valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a focus on enhancing selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite are examples used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, respectively. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. These factors are critical in designing catalysts for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates appear earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion and BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H. BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Radical-chain reactions on ZSM-5-H are speculative, but electron transfer processes in high silica zeolites generate detectable radical species. Different aromatization mechanisms between the catalysts affect their behavior. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, unlike the hydride transfer mechanism over ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatic products contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity, with gallium reducing to Ga+ within ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective for aromatics production. Reoxidation at 550C generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes, 1-hexene, and cyclohexene at 500-600C. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium added to catalysts boost aromatics yields. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active and selective catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5, significantly enhance alkane transformations by increasing rates of dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, crucial for propene and C6 aromatic formation. These metals facilitate H-atom removal from acid sites, allowing dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and act as 'portholes' for recombinative H-atom desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2). This improves selectivity and efficiency, limiting the rate of propane dehydrocyclodimerization and enhancing H2 formation. The addition of metal species increases aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, contributing to higher yields of desired products and reduced by-products, making these catalysts industrially significant for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like Zn-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations. In ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable. The mechanism involves the ethane CH bond rupture, ethene formation, and dihydrogen production, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The carbenium activation route has a high activation barrier, making it less favorable. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity in aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species interacting with HZSM-5 zeolite, crucial for catalytic activity, change acid sites, impacting methane dehydro-aromatization. Certain metals like Ru and Pt boost reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature influence performance. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly affect catalytic efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. These transformations involve complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly affects oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts with tetrahedral V5+ species (at lower V loading) show higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while those with octahedral V5+ species (at higher V loading) exhibit greater activity. The number and nature of acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, also vary with vanadium loading, impacting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane. Hydrogen abstraction occurs first at OVV sites, then at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are key in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity, and prolonged contact time further reduces selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, featuring spherulitic aggregates and Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, is essential for these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst performance is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Support type affects V5+ reduction extent and reactivity, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher activity than V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported vanadia is more selective than alumina or titania-supported catalysts, due to reduced propane combustion. Active VOx domain properties are influenced by binary dispersed structures and additives, which modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with MoOx domain size impacting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali presence alters MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and affecting CH bond activation steps. Basic dopants enhance propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The redox properties of the feed influence the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting the nature of the products. A two-step mechanism is proposed for the conversion of alkanes to maleic anhydride, involving oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. The P:V ratio significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system exhibits confusion over the active phase due to the formation of various crystalline V(IV) and V(V) phases, influenced by preparation procedures. The P:V ratio is a key parameter, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride while decreasing specific activity. Understanding the dynamics of the catalyst surface and the relationship between surface modifications and catalytic behavior is essential for optimizing the selectivity-controlling properties of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization yield aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn facilitates alkane CH bond breakage and formation, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by zeolite Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy helps elucidate structure-activity relationships, vital for optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces impact reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding the development of structure-activity relationships. Extraframework metal-containing species in high-silica zeolites exhibit stability and reactivity governed by coordination environment and charge compensation. Isolated GaO+ species oligomerize to form multinuclear oxygenated gallium species with optimal metal center coordination. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species show significant reactivity toward heterolytic CH cleavage, facilitating ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition via water desorption, reducing reactivity. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed increases reactive oxygenated extraframework species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These insights contribute to the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is resilient under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) species on silica supports, attributed to isolated surface vanadia species, is significant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds, influenced by the oxide support's electronegativity. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, affecting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions, particularly the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts are industrially significant due to their ability to convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation include low vanadia surface densities and high temperatures, leading to high alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms more reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam addition, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, morphology, and additives. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformation from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups occurs during conditioning. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for their selective activation of paraffins in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformations, specifically methane to formaldehyde conversion. Two preparation methods were tested: conventional impregnation yielding tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, and impregnation followed by ammonia washing, producing a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Zeolites, notably Fe-containing ZSM-5, excel in selective oxidation reactions, specifically the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics using dinitrogen monoxide. This process, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion to phenol, highlights the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and dinitrogen monoxide's oxidant properties in enhancing catalyst efficiency. Progress in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for its conversion. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu enhancing its activity. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane as a direct conversion alternative has been widely studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Transition metal ions' activity for methane aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, though coke formation was overlooked. The addition of a second metal component boosts activity. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde formation have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been investigated for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation methods, support, and conditions, form isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower vanadium loadings and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, operates at temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is associated with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have their efficiency in alkane transformations, such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5, crucial for alkane transformation efficiency. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions like the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, essential in the petrochemical industry. Their ability to operate under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption, and increase product yields makes them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst, prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's conversion into organic compounds, particularly methanol and formaldehyde, is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the metal oxide's dispersion and nature. The catalyst's structure, featuring isolated MoO42species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. UV spectra confirm Mo(VI) species presence, and XPS analysis indicates high dispersion. The grafting method avoids water, yielding highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aqueous impregnation which forms MoO3 aggregates. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium oxide, crucial for industrial catalysis. Barriers range from 45-80 kcal/mol, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, may lower some barriers. Propane adsorption barrier reduction requires vanadium oxide support involvement, highlighting the impact of catalyst structure and conditions on efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, notably methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes, with higher alkanes like C&/C undergoing conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is pivotal in Oleflex-like processes, converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, influences alkane transformations by altering the mechanism of activation and transformation, favoring hydrogen removal. Incorporated Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, leading to regioselective H/D exchange in propane. Two mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. The modification of zeolite with Zn changes the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are critical (1, 2). Product stability (3), multifunctionality (4), and C-H bond activation (8) enhance efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms (5, 6) but is insufficient alone (7). Acidity and basicity also play a role. These factors are crucial for the industrial success of oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts play a critical role in propane activation, with propane initially dissociatively adsorbing over Zn oxide species to form propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Subsequent dehydrogenation of propyl groups and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene undergoes oligomerization, cyclization, and aromatization over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis under certain conditions. The recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts the equilibrium toward propylene formation. The efficiency of this process is influenced by reactant partial pressures, with hydrogen evolution favored at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, highlighting their potential in natural gas utilization. The incorporation of Mo or Zn significantly enhances methane activation and catalytic activity, leading to increased benzene yield with higher methane partial pressure. This demonstrates the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes, supported by a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms can activate the CH bond of propane, but the terminal O is too active, hindering propene release. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including modified HZSM-5 zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane activation over zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 exhibits distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, while gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, whereas gallium activation yields gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences in alkane activation directly affect hydrocarbon conversions, influencing reaction efficiency and selectivity. Industrially, these catalysts are crucial for selective alkane conversion into valuable products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is pivotal in advancing methane conversion processes, with a need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal, and feed composition. These factors are crucial for industrial significance, impacting the mechanisms and overall efficiency of the processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia exists as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Polyvanadates form earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. These insights elucidate how metal-based catalysts' composition and structure impact alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity leads to enhanced BTX formation over ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium reduced to Ga+, exhibit high activity for propane aromatization, akin to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, for ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C yields a dispersed, higher energy Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatics at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments significantly impact ethane dehydrogenation performance. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium in zeolites, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not feature reduced Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. The efficiency of these transformations is influenced by the catalyst's composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane dehydrocyclodimerization to C6 aromatics is limited by irreversible dehydrogenation steps. Ga and Zn species, acting as 'portholes', enhance propane conversion rates by facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption and deuterium incorporation, crucial for H2 formation. They allow dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increase aromatic turnover, and decrease cracking turnover on H-ZSM5. By removing H-atoms from acid sites, Ga and Zn species prevent cracking, boosting propene formation and improving selectivity. This selective H-atom removal contributes to the efficient extraction of H2 from light alkanes, a significant industrial advantage.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. For ethane dehydrogenation, two routes exist: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The first aromatization step is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for increasing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging. Direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde or methanol is a studied alternative to the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, as demonstrated by high formaldehyde selectivities (over 90%) at low methane conversion (0.6%) with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen shows selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly affect alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species interact with HZSM-5 zeolite, altering acid sites and influencing methane dehydro-aromatization. Metal loading, like Ru, Pt, and W, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a contrary effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures impact performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, greatly influence catalytic activity. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane activation, a topic of ongoing debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development. The real status of Mo species during reactions and its role in methane dehydro-aromatization are significant for methane chemistry theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, requiring silica support for high selectivity at a narrow temperature window around 500 C. Oxidative dehydrogenation follows the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act as multifunctional catalysts, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites display similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ -Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species are observed at lower loadings, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings; the former offers higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is a critical step in these processes, akin to enzymatic reactions. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with the first hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than monomers on silica, enhancing the efficiency of propane's oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, significantly impact the efficiency of alkane transformations, specifically methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time are critical; higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at lower temperatures but decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites, affecting reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    