Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, optimizing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalysts' efficiency is also affected by the support type, with vanadia on silica showing higher selectivity than on alumina or titania. Additives like alkali and alkaline earth metals decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts exhibit lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at specific surface densities. The size of MoOx domains influences Mo O strength, affecting oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Alkali dopants modify MoOx structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, especially vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Redox properties of reactants alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is influenced by the redox potential of the feed, oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, influencing selectivity and activity. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's complexity, with various crystalline phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. The P:V ratio impacts crystallinity and defect structure, affecting catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio enhances selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion involves high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. The reactivity and interaction of but-1-ene and n-butane differ, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species dehydrogenating alkanes and Brnsted acid sites oligomerizing and cyclizing olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, promoting olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves alkane dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn-modified zeolites effectively enhance alkane conversion to aromatics, directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. Zeolites' confined spaces foster multinuclear gallium complexes, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination aids H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can diminish site reactivity. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, underscoring industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is long-lasting on typical oxide supports, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and the reduction of surface vanadia species in reducing environments forms vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and specific oxide support phase. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The bridging V-O-support bond is crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface vanadia sites are sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and noninteracting metal oxide additives. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic additives, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations due to their active sites, acidity, and pore structure, which enhance oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Optimizing composition and conditions boosts efficiency and product selectivity. Their industrial significance lies in converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with novel regeneration methods extending catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts boost ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at a given temperature and similar activation energies. Optimal alkene yield is achieved with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by the local structure of supported vanadia domains. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios, with acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impacting reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, are crucial for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive GaO+ ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, critical for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and organic medium precursors enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, exhibit efficiency variation linked to composition. Two series were studied: one with conventional impregnation, yielding polymolybdate species dominant at high Mo loading, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels; the other, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, contrasting with the treated catalysts' higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites demonstrate high efficiency in oxidative hydroxylation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in converting benzene to phenol. Catalyst performance is influenced by catalytic activity, iron's role, zeolite matrix composition, and the oxidant used, highlighting their significance in organic synthesis processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics, a key strategy for its conversion. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation is critical, leading to efforts to transform methane into higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched to improve catalyst performance. Transition metal ions' activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites facilitate methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency is influenced by preparation method, support type, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, is studied under high temperatures and vanadium loadings. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn enhance efficiency by adjusting the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. These catalysts are crucial for industrial processes, including MTG and olefin manufacture, due to their strength, acid site density, metal stability, and reducibility, which ensure selectivity and conversion, making them economically viable for large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite creates a superior catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO), outperforming traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. The catalyst's effectiveness stems from the interaction between zeolite surface OH groups and acetylacetonate ligands, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species. This process, unlike aqueous impregnation which forms aggregated MoO3, results in isolated molybdenum(VI) species that enhance formaldehyde yield. XPS and XRD analyses confirm the presence of these species, indicating high dispersion. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, impacting alkane transformation efficiency. The catalyst's specific activity and formaldehyde selectivity are influenced by metal oxide dispersion and nature, making it a significant advancement in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, higher than for supported vanadia. Concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination or support involvement can lower these barriers, enhancing alkane transformation efficiency in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in processes converting light gases to aromatics, particularly BTX, using catalysts like ZSM-5. Aromatization yields light alkenes alongside BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 releasing dihydrogen, boosting BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, favoring gallium due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, driven by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation on Zn-sites and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption, leading to methyl group regioselectivity. Kinetic parameters for propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative H/D exchange mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, crucial in alkane transformations like oxidative dehydrogenation, excel due to vanadium's role in selective oxidation [1] and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix [2]. Efficiency hinges on product stability [3], multifunctionality [5]-[6], C-H bond activation [8], and acidity/basicity [9], with multifunctionality needing additional criteria for adequacy [7]. These elements bolster the industrial relevance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency dependent on pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts effectively convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation via a carbenium ion mechanism, increasing benzene yield. Reaction conditions, such as temperature and methane partial pressure, significantly impact process efficiency, underscoring the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging O atoms on V2O5(001) activate the CH bond, with propene production favored at the bridging O site due to weaker propoxide binding. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms: zinc induces strong adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures. Zinc promotes Brnsted acid proton formation, whereas gallium yields dihydride species, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts are crucial for industrial alkane conversion to products like ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, catalyst efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. Specific catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite exemplify how these factors impact processes, highlighting the need for catalysts that enhance selectivity and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia appears as dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but as V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadate species and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, with support interactions determining VOx structures present at a given surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity marginally increases over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-H's radical-chain reaction initiation is speculative, but adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate detectable radical species. Different aromatization mechanisms explain the contrasting behavior of the catalysts. ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen during aromatization, unlike ZSM-5-H's hydride transfer mechanism. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, pretreated to reduce gallium to Ga+, exhibit enhanced aromatization activity, particularly for propane. Reoxidized catalysts, however, are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates a higher energy, dispersed Ga3+ state, optimal for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly influence alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating chemical conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while reducing cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These species remove H-atoms from acid sites, minimizing by-products and contributing to high H2 selectivity, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with the former being more favorable due to lower activation barriers. The initial step in aromatization is dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations assist in the ethane CH bond rupture, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels, notably through direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde, is a promising yet complex process. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly affect catalyst behavior, as evidenced by MoO3/SiO2 achieving over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity are dependent on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Studies on W/HZSM-5 catalysts for methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen show formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, underlining the industrial importance of these factors in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, are central to alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by metal loading and optimized reaction conditions. Mo species interact with HZSM-5, impacting acid sites and catalytic activity. Metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and calcination temperature affect performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly influence catalytic efficiency, with the real status of Mo species during reactions crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimized at 500 C to avoid combustion or unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity by stabilizing isolated centers. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization reactions. M-zeolites, containing Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane conversion to ethylene are debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity, with selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity for ethene exceeds that for oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, improving selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, boosting activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are critical in alkane transformations, notably in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction primarily occurs at OVV sites, with secondary abstraction at VOSi bridging oxygen sites, facilitating faster propene formation. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites show enhanced activity when part of the bulk surface, significantly impacting the efficiency of propane oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' Si/Fe ratio and form (sodium or hydrogen) significantly impact methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, as higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. When Fe-HZSM-5 is used, methane oxidation to methanol and carbon dioxide proceeds at the same rate, with methanol slowly oxidizing to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide. Using Fe-NaZSM-5 accelerates methanol production but also increases the rapid oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "In alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks with intermediate-sized VOx domains for optimal reactant accessibility and surface species activity, correlating with intermediate loadings and monolayer structure development for high olefin selectivity. Catalysts supported on silica exhibit greater selectivity than those on alumina or titania, due to reduced propane combustion. Active site isolation is critical for efficient catalysts, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering a strategic design. Molybdenum oxide catalysts show enhanced activity with higher Mo surface density, peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2, reflecting increased surface Mo species reactivity. Alkali additives affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, impacting catalytic performance by inhibiting initial MoOx reduction and increasing selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through mechanisms influenced by their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, affected by feed redox properties, determines product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation/reduction rates, and temperature. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalysts with variable V(IV)/V(V) ratios show optimal performance at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. The P:V ratio affects selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Surface modifications and the dynamics of the catalyst surface play a critical role in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites selectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species facilitating dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites driving olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and inhibiting hydrogen transfer, resulting in ethane and methane. Further dehydrocyclization of olefins yields aromatics. Zn boosts H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating reaction rates and reducing activation energies. Zn species ease CH bond dynamics, with dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide sites preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability, promoting alkane conversion to aromatics on Zn-modified zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Reactivity in zeolites' confined spaces, studied through spectroscopy and theory, enhances understanding. Extraframework gallium-oxo species in high-silica zeolites exhibit significant reactivity for ethane dehydrogenation, facilitated by decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as confirmed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the specific oxide support phase. The surface vanadia monolayer is stable on typical oxide supports, ensuring the longevity of industrial catalysts. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species are influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, and hydration-dehydration processes are reversible. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is related to their dehydrated state, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic sites, influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but their effects are reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is enhanced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure, enabling the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions significantly improves yields and selectivities. Innovative regeneration methods combat deactivation, extending catalyst life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, with similar activation energies for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Reaction rates and selectivity are influenced by vanadia surface density and structure, with optimal performance at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces affect rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Spectroscopic results show distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, evolving into poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites at higher densities. The highest initial alkene selectivity is observed for the lowest vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities. The highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates operated at the highest possible reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Gallium in MFI zeolites catalyzes alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, boosted by nitrous oxide to GaO+ ions, are crucial. Steam stabilizes GaO+, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Ga3+ ions' stable tetrahedral configuration aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and high-temperature activation. Preparation methods affect morphology, reducibility, and reoxidizability. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, avoiding V4+ oxidation. A slight phosphorus excess balances reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, were studied in methane's partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding polymolybdate species that increased methane conversion but decreased formaldehyde selectivity; the other, treated with ammonia, featured well-dispersed monomeric species, showing lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, notably converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting their efficiency in organic synthesis and potential for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic conversion to aromatics is facilitated by transition metal supported zeolites, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized as an effective catalyst. Activity is enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been explored since 1982. Transition metal ions' influence follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is efficient for methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been examined.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on surfaces, influenced by preparation, support, promotors, and environment, play a critical role in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches temperatures of 873 K in catalytic beds with concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings, affecting the catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, enhancing catalytic activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild operating conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst boosts methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, crucial for converting vast natural gas reserves into methanol or formaldehyde. The mechanism begins with the CH bond weakening through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity hinges on the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase. Isolated MoO42species, achieved by grafting without water, significantly enhance formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. This suggests the necessity of complex reactions, such as concerted O2 adsorption during water elimination, or support involvement to reduce barriers, like propane adsorption, to improve efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane conversion to aromatics and alkenes, central to processes like Oleflex, employs ZSM-5 catalysts for aromatization, especially BTX. Selectivity is partial, forming light alkenes as intermediates. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, favoring gallium to mitigate zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, driven by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification introduces regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, with distinct kinetic parameters for H/D exchange, indicating a unique mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's selective oxidation role and isolation in a quasi-inert matrix enhance efficiency (Quotes [1] and [2]). Product stability (Quote [3]), multifunctionality (Quotes [4] and [5]), and C-H bond activation (Quote [8]) are critical factors. Multifunctionality aids catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms (Quotes [5] and [6]), though not solely sufficient (Quote [7]). Acidity and basicity significantly impact these processes (Quote [9]). These elements collectively determine the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, yielding propylene and dihydrogen over Zn sites. Propylene may oligomerize, and dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn boosts methane activation and benzene yield, especially at higher methane partial pressures. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts for selective and stable methane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is governed by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. DFT calculations reveal that bridging O sites on V2O5(001) facilitate easier propene production by weakening propoxide binding, highlighting the need for an optimal balance between CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit distinct ethane activation mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, enabling strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium shows weak ethane adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures yielding ethyl and hydride fragments, forming gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences directly affect dehydrogenation reactions, influencing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is pivotal for improving selectivity and longevity. Efficiency and selectivity are significantly influenced by factors such as metal state, feed composition, and reaction conditions. Specific catalysts, like FePO4 for CH3OH and HCHO production, and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite for methane-to-aromatics conversion, exemplify the importance of optimizing these factors in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by the support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from isolated monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density, as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium, enhancing BTX formation, while ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate. Increasing space velocity affects hydrogen diffusion over ZSM-5-Zn, impacting BTX selectivity. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products, highlighting the role of hydrogen generation in ZSM-5-Zn's aromatization mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts, with gallium in the Ga+ state, are highly active for propane aromatization, similar to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. Reoxidized catalysts, however, are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation, generating a dispersed Ga3+ form optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium enhances rates of alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation, with the dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels significantly affecting the relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking. Pretreatments influence catalyst performance, and small amounts of rhenium, platinum, or rhodium can enhance aromatics yields. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, facilitating recombinative hydrogen desorption, and enabling deuterium incorporation. These metals act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, crucial for dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. They increase propene formation and aromatic yields while reducing by-product formation, contributing to industrial significance by improving reaction rates and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Zn-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene occurs via alkyl activation of a CH bond, favored for its lower activation barrier, or carbenium activation, which is less favorable. The initial step in ethane and propane aromatization is their dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations facilitate these reactions by accepting alkyl groups. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde is challenging but offers a potential alternative to conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion, as shown by Banares et al. with MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly affects catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate selectivity linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, in the partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde using molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly impact alkane transformations. Efficiency is enhanced by optimizing composition and reaction conditions. HZSM-5's channel structure and Mo species' interaction are critical for catalytic performance. Specific metals like Ru and Pt boost reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature are influential. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact activity. Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over HZSM-5 is essential for understanding the reaction mechanism. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting catalytic behavior. Methane activation's mechanism remains a topic of debate. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation thrives within a narrow 500 C temperature window, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with VV surface oxo species as the most reactive. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene via sequential H-abstraction on adjacent VO sites. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics through multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and coaromatize methane and alkanes. Mo- and Zn-exchanged zeolites directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, while MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde under oxidizing conditions. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% for selectivity to olefins. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane's oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral species but greater selectivity from tetrahedral ones. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low and both Lewis and Brønsted at high vanadium loadings, also influence efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides on silica and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is pivotal, with monomeric vanadium oxide species, modeled as vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, catalyzing propane's oxidative dehydrogenation. Hydrogen abstraction initiates at OVV sites, with a subsequent step possibly at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation is faster on OVV sites than on HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites are more active in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when part of the bulk surface, as per recent DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form increases selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity (Quote 9), and prolonged contact time decreases methanol concentration due to further oxidation (Quote 10). The catalyst's structure, featuring spherulitic aggregates and ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for efficiency (Quotes 1, 4, 5). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11, 12, 13). The sodium form accelerates methanol production but also its rapid oxidation (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate sizes for surface VOx species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, enhanced by N2O. V2O5-ZrO2 shows higher reactivity than V2O5-Al2O3 or V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2 surface density. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed significantly impact the catalyst's surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio influence redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves controlled oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, dependent on the rate of Vw reduction and the amount of Vv. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion correlates with the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Preparation procedures determine catalyst redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including the P:V ratio and defect structure, significantly affects the reaction mechanism. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for selectivity in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining catalyst selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, favoring olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer. Zn promotes H/D exchange, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies for C1n-C4 alkanes. Zn species facilitate alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn-alkyl species enhance aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites, leading to alkane dehydrogenation and aromatic formation. This demonstrates Zn's direct influence on alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are essential in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by structure-activity relationships, which spectroscopy helps elucidate. In zeolites, confined spaces affect reactivity, with multinuclear oxygenated gallium complexes driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via CH cleavage, and decreased basicity promotes H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity, as demonstrated in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which is robust under various environments, ensuring long catalyst life. The molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by net pH and oxide support properties, are crucial for reactivity. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of vanadia (4+) and (3+) species. Oxidation states and molecular structures can be assessed using spectroscopy. Surface vanadia species' behavior during reactions is affected by the specific oxide support and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Surface Lewis acid sites decrease, and Brønsted acid sites increase upon surface vanadia species formation. Reactivity is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds playing a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, impacting all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, while acidic and basic additives influence selectivity in a reaction-specific manner.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency hinges on composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being crucial. Optimizing these factors enhances yield and selectivity, making these catalysts industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods extend catalyst life, furthering industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts enhance ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene at given temperatures, sharing similar activation energies. Isolated monovanadate species at lower surface densities favor high initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities, influenced by two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Optimal alkene yields are achieved at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, on catalysts with predominantly isolated monovanadate species. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation are comparable, with propene formation notably faster than ethene at 663 K. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities, maximizing olefin yields under these conditions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters' role in alkane activation is significant, with isolated cations or extraframework oxygen atoms impacting reactions. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions, leading to olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by preparation methods that affect crystallite morphology and V5+ reduction, P/V ratios that stabilize (VO)P207, and additives that prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, critical for selective paraffin activation. The P/V ratio higher than stoichiometric stabilizes (VO)P207, and the presence of promoters like Zn2+ avoids overoxidation at high temperatures. Optimal catalyst composition presents a slight excess of phosphorus, which helps in avoiding the oxidation of V4+ and enhances the catalyst's reoxidizability.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by Mo species and loading. Two series were tested: one with tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species, the other with well-dispersed monomeric species after ammonia washing. Polymolybdates, predominant at high Mo loadings, enhance methane activation but reduce formaldehyde selectivity. Monomeric species show lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting Mo=O sites' specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, such as the high-selectivity conversion of benzene to phenol, highlighting the impact of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant properties on catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrocondensation of methane to aromatics on transition metal supported zeolites is a key strategy for methane conversion. Synergetic effects between metals and zeolites, active species, and reaction mechanisms are revealed through studies. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting efforts to transform methane to higher hydrocarbons without oxygen. Mo/HZSM-5 is recognized as an effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu additions. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched to improve catalyst performance. Direct conversion can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. Methane aromatization to benzene is achieved over PtCrO3/HZSM-5. Activity follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, but coke formation is a challenge. The CH bond splits due to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites support methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina, influenced by preparation, support, and environment, vary with vanadium loadings: isolated/polymerized VO4 at lower coverages, VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, reaches 873 K in concentrated feeds. High dispersion of isolated/polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields high propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals introduced into HZSM-5 zeolites by sublimation enhance catalytic activity, making these catalysts significant in industrial processes such as the MTG process, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization. These processes, conducted under mild conditions, reduce energy consumption and increase product yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) outperforms traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This innovation is crucial for converting methane, the primary component of natural gas reserves, into methanol or formaldehyde, key for liquid fuels and organic synthesis. The activation mechanism involves weakening methane's CH bond through interaction with the zeolite surface. Efficiency is enhanced by the dispersion and nature of the supported metal oxide phase, with grafting yielding highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, boosting formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contribute to CO selectivity, with higher surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leading to lower CO selectivity. The new catalyst's performance is attributed to the presence of isolated MoO42species, confirmed by spectral analysis, indicating its unique structure and oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies highlight high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are notably higher than for supported vanadia. Incorporating complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination can lower these barriers. The necessity of a support for vanadium oxide catalysts is suggested by propane adsorption barriers, underlining the support's role in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Propane and butane are converted to alkenes and aromatics, notably BTX, using metal-based catalysts like ZSM-5 in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. Conversion isn't fully selective, with alkenes forming alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 offer similar performance, with gallium preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-based catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane via two mechanisms: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by propene protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, enhancing hydrogen removal and inducing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, altering alkane activation. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium, favored for selective alkane oxidation, must be isolated in a quasi-inert matrix for efficiency. Multifunctionality is crucial for catalyst design and explaining reaction mechanisms but is not sufficient alone. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, critical for industrial applications, is also influenced by product stability, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, facilitating dehydrogenation to produce propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene undergoes oligomerization and cyclization over acidic sites, with Zn enhancing aromatization. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures, converting light alkanes to critical petrochemical feedstocks, aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts demonstrate high efficiency in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with excellent activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield, which rises with higher methane partial pressure. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, underscoring the industrial importance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on V2O5(001) reveal similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging O atoms, favoring propene production at bridging O due to weaker binding. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release, addressing the global demand for olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts exhibit unique ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. In contrast, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, facilitating ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly impact dehydrogenation efficiency and are pivotal for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "In metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations, efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal's state and location, and feed composition, all critical for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities rise with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn maintains quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H which controls dehydrogenation rate. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon formation over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective than reduced ones. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The dispersion and oxidation state of gallium within zeolite channels affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, enhance alkane transformations by boosting chemical conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption. They facilitate dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, increasing propene and aromatic formation while reducing cracking turnover rates. This optimization of reaction rates and selectivities underscores their industrial significance in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The zinc cation facilitates alkyl group rupture, with activation energies of 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1 for the three steps. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable. These catalysts enhance selectivity for small alkane aromatization, crucial for commercial hydrocarbon processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and loading significantly affect catalyst behavior and efficiency. Studies show MoO3/SiO2 catalysts achieve over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation exhibit formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, impacting mechanisms and efficiency. Key factors include catalyst modification, optimized reaction conditions, and the interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, which is pivotal for catalytic performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly affect catalytic activity. Understanding the role of Mo species in methane dehydro-aromatization and the alteration of zeolite acid sites is essential for reaction pathway comprehension. Methane activation's mode remains a topic of debate, with carbonaceous deposits presenting a major challenge. The real status of Mo species during reactions is crucial for advancements in methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at optimal temperatures around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica, as the ideal support, enhances selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane, involving complex mechanisms with metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, while selectivity to olefins peaks at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. Tetrahedral V5+ species, dominant at lower loadings, enhance selectivity, whereas octahedral V5+ species, prevalent at higher loadings, boost activity. The nature and number of acid sites also vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is crucial. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation is facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with vanadyl sites central in the rate-determining step. Hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites significantly impacts propene formation rates. Vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity when integrated into the bulk surface rather than supported as monomers, indicating the importance of catalyst structure in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Methanol production is optimal at lower temperatures, with higher temperatures favoring oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, including spherulitic aggregates and ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation. Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity. The catalyst with the lowest iron content achieves the highest selectivity for methane to methanol oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity peaks at intermediate VOx domain sizes, correlating with optimal selectivity to olefins. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, such as silica, affects selectivity, with silica-supported catalysts being the most selective. Additives like P, K, Ca, and others modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based catalysts, with MoOx domain size affecting Mo O strength and activity. Alkali additives influence MoOx domain structure and catalytic properties, decreasing turnover rates and enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, influence alkane transformations through redox properties that alter surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. Vanadium's valence state, influenced by feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates, is crucial. Surface modifications by C4 hydrocarbons and P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves controlled Vw reduction and Vv availability, with high Vv content leading to carbon oxide formation. Selectivity correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods affect redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts decomposing maleic anhydride faster at high conversion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase, with phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride but decreasing specific activity. Surface oxygen concentration influences the mechanism of n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion, supporting a single-site mechanism. Different hydrocarbons exhibit distinct reactivity and interaction with the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Zn's influence on alkane activation involves dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, enhancing H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for subsequent aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by providing a dehydrogenation step. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, enhancing alkane conversion towards aromatic molecules.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, optimize alkane transformations by leveraging their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Structure-activity relationships, elucidated by spectroscopy, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, fostering catalysis. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites exhibit reactivity governed by coordination environment and charge compensation, oligomerizing into multinuclear oxygenated gallium, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations facilitate ethane dehydrogenation, with H2 desorption promoted by decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination. Water addition to the hydrocarbon feed boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, significantly increasing Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, as catalytic experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Surface vanadia monolayers are stable on various oxide supports, ensuring long catalyst lifespans (Quote 5). The molecular structures of these species, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, have been extensively studied. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions are examined using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing insights into the predominant species, reduction extent, and the role of oxide supports. The stability of V(5) species on silica may be due to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species (Quote 17). Surface acidity is influenced by the oxide support, with Lewis acid sites present on oxide supports and both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on unsupported V2O5. The reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts is associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Bridging V-O-support bonds play a critical role in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF (Quote 32). The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Noninteracting additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity in a reaction-specific manner. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by active sites, acidity, and pore structure. Optimizing these catalysts and conditions boosts yields and selectivities, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Novel regeneration methods extend their operational life, enhancing their application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene, yet activation energies are similar. Selectivity for ethane is independent of surface density, while for propane, it increases slightly with density. High temperatures and isolated monovanadate species maximize alkene yields, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form at higher surface densities, affecting reactivity. The highest initial alkene selectivity is seen in samples with low vanadia surface density. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, around 115 ± 20 kJ/mol. Propene formation is faster, suggesting higher stabilization energy for ethoxide species. Alkene selectivity improves with higher temperatures and lower vanadia surface density. The highest olefin yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, particularly gallyl ions formed by nitrous oxide oxidation, significantly boost efficiency. Steam stabilizes these ions, while water promotes hydrogen recombination by facilitating hydrolyzed gallium species. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation, olefin desorption, and hydrogen recombination, highlighting the role of extraframework oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, morphology, additives, and conditioning. Preparation methods impact morphology and V5+ reduction, with P/V ratios stabilizing (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation, while a slight phosphorus excess (P/V=1.05) optimizes reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Conditioning transforms surface groups from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, key in alkane transformations, were studied in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Catalysts prepared by conventional impregnation and ammonia washing showed varying activity. High molybdenum loading led to predominant polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and partially blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3). Polymolybdate species enhanced methane activation but decreased formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, demonstrating specificity for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation reactions, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion, highlighting iron's role and the matrix composition's impact on alkane transformation efficiency in oxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, facilitating methane aromatization to benzene and naphthalene. Synergies between transition metals and zeolite supports impact reaction mechanisms. Oxygen use in methane conversion leads to deep oxidation, prompting research into oxygen-free processes to avoid CO and CO2 formation. Catalysts augmented with Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu show enhanced activity or stability. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry. Direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Multi-component catalysts activate methane, forming benzene and carbonaceous deposits. Pt-supported catalysts enable two-step methane transformation into higher hydrocarbons. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. Transition metal ions' activity sequence for methane aromatization is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. The CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina form isolated/polymerized VO4 at lower and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings, impacting propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction reaching 873 K. High propene selectivity is linked to dispersed isolated/polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation, unlike AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5, which have low activity. The portion of AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including metal-exchanged zeolites like HZSM-5 with Ga, Fe, and Zn, are critical for alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation. The introduction of these metals into HZSM-5 boosts catalytic efficiency by increasing the ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, essential for alkane conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes such as MTG and olefin manufacture, where acid site strength, metal stability, and reducibility under mild conditions improve selectivity and conversion, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including a new methane partial oxidation (MPO) catalyst prepared by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations. This catalyst outperforms classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts, featuring highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species that enhance formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane conversion into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to vast natural gas reserves. Methane activation begins with the weakening of the CH bond through zeolite surface interaction. Formaldehyde selectivity is influenced by the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide supported phase. The grafting process, avoiding water, yields isolated MoO42species, crucial for the catalyst's specific activity. XPS and UV diffuse reflectance spectra confirm the presence of these species, while XRD spectra show high dispersion without MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. Residual acid sites on the zeolite surface impact CO selectivity, and high surface covering in W/HZSM-5 catalysts leads to lower CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal that the support's role in lowering propane adsorption barriers is pivotal for enhancing the efficiency of oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide catalysts, underscoring its significance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert light alkanes like propane and butane to aromatics, including BTX, in alkane transformations. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored for their ability to handle zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures, crucial for efficient conversion processes. However, conversion isn't fully selective, also yielding light alkenes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn2+ cations in Zn/H-MFI zeolite act as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal from propane through two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism that impacts efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites are key in alkane transformations, with vanadium's selective oxidation role (Quote 1) and isolation (Quote 2) being critical. Efficiency is influenced by product stability (Quote 3), multifunctionality (Quotes 5-7), C-H bond activation (Quote 8), and acidity/basicity (Quote 9), essential for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, which dehydrogenate to produce propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the catalyst. Propylene may oligomerize, and dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Efficiency is pressure-dependent, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo or Zn enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, underlining a carbenium ion mechanism for methane activation. These catalysts' efficiency and selectivity are crucial for industrial alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations reveal that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in V2O5(001) can activate propane's CH bond, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through distinct mechanisms: zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures due to strong ethane adsorption by acid-base pairs, whereas gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, leading to ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid protons, unlike gallium, which forms gallium dihydride species, significantly impacting hydrocarbon conversions and dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 boost selectivity and longevity in alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition, all critical for industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities <7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. Propane dehydrogenates, oligomerizes, and aromatizes, concurrently cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, favoring aromatization. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with ZSM-5-Zn generating hydrogen and ZSM-5-H involving hydride transfer, producing paraffins. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity, with reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5 showing comparable activity for propane aromatization to physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5. Reoxidized catalysts, however, are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation, generating dispersed Ga3+ at 550C, optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, as indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity ratios. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium within the zeolite, but the most active catalyst for aromatics production does not consist of Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts accelerate alkane transformations by enhancing propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, facilitating H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' to remove H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking and boosting propene formation. This optimization of reaction rates and selectivities is crucial for industrial significance, improving yields of desired products and reducing by-product formation. Ga and Zn species catalyze recombinative desorption of H-atoms, aiding in selective H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: CH bond alkyl activation and less favorable carbenium activation, with high activation barriers. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc acts as an alkyl acceptor, initiating the mechanism with ethane CH bond rupture. These catalysts enhance selectivity in small alkane aromatization, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Direct partial oxidation of methane to C1 oxygenates, like formaldehyde, is a promising alternative to the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion, as seen in MoO3/SiO2 achieving 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion, significantly impact catalyst behavior. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen for methane oxidation show formaldehyde selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite, significantly impact alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Select metals like Ru, Pt, and W enhance reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have a diminishing effect. Preparation methods, calcination temperatures, and reaction conditions are critical. The Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is crucial for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, and the real status of Mo species during reactions is pivotal for methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits challenge reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation under optimal conditions around 500 C, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where terminal oxo species of VV are the most reactive for H-abstraction. Silica is optimal for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites activating H2 and alkanes, catalyzing H/D exchange, and forming metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, offer higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, enhance catalytic activity. Acid site nature, influenced by vanadium loading, affects selectivity and activity, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Monomeric vanadium oxide on silica facilitates propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with the first hydrogen abstraction at OVV sites and the second at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher after readsorption on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit greater activity than supported monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol and carbon dioxide, is influenced by the Si/Fe ratio and catalyst form. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The speed of methanol production and oxidation varies with the catalyst form.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Catalyst performance is affected by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species activity and reactant accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface than O2. The extent of V reduction and catalytic activity in ethane ODH is influenced by the support, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting ODH performance; alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts show lower activity than vanadia-based ones, with Mo surface density and domain size impacting ODH rates and activity. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, thus increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the redox properties of reactants, which modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. The valence state of vanadium is determined by the redox potential of the feed, the catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio effect on redox properties and selectivity/activity are pivotal. Oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene and further oxidation are controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods dictate redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry, including P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure, influences the reaction mechanism. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is essential for n-butane oxidation selectivity, with vanadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride. Selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride requires high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. C4 alkenes and alkanes interact differently with the catalyst surface, affecting product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Zn species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn influences alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, enhancing H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes. Zn alkyl species form upon alkane adsorption, facilitating dehydrogenation and aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability by directly influencing alkane CH bond activation by catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital for alkane transformations. Their efficiency in processes like oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by structure-activity relationships, where confined spaces in zeolites foster the formation of multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity (Quote 3). Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation through heterolytic CH cleavage (Quote 4). Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks cluster decomposition (Quote 5). Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, significantly increasing dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures industrial catalyst longevity. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, which depends on the surface point of zero charge of the oxide support and the amount of surface vanadia species. Hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' behavior during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is influenced by the predominant species, the extent of reduction, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated species. Preparation methods do not significantly affect the molecular structure of surface vanadia species, and the same thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species are formed. The molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species is unaffected by the long-range order of the oxide substrate. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, and the number of surface vanadia sites required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Bridging V-O-support bonds are associated with critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF. Interacting additives influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by modifying surface vanadia sites, and acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their effect appears to be reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. Ethene and propene formation rates are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density, reaching a maximum at intermediate densities. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces impact rates and selectivity. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Alkene selectivity increases with reaction temperature and decreasing vanadia surface density.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, activated by nitrous oxide, form reactive gallyl ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Surface transformations during conditioning improve selectivity. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in methane to formaldehyde conversion is influenced by molybdenum loading and species. High loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels (Quote 3), enhancing methane activation but lowering formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5). Conversely, treated catalysts with monomeric species show higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient in oxidative hydroxylation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity for benzene to phenol conversion at 25-30% benzene conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, highlighting their industrial significance in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are effective catalysts for methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics. Activity is enhanced by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively studied. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites are effective for methane aromatization, though coke formation is a concern. The metal activity sequence is Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. CH bond splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species on alumina surfaces, influenced by preparation method, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions, are pivotal in alkane transformations. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a strong exothermic reaction, benefits from high vanadium loadings and concentrated feeds, achieving maximum temperatures around 873 K. The highest propene selectivity is observed with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity. Increasing vanadium loadings lead to a higher portion of vanadium present as AlVO4, impacting the efficiency of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic efficiency. The Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratio, vital for alkane conversion, notably increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization, operating under mild conditions to reduce energy consumption and increase yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This method yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. The conversion of methane to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves, with formaldehyde selectivity dependent on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The catalyst's high CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are crucially reduced by the support, highlighting the catalyst structure's role in enhancing efficiency for industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5 catalysts, particularly Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5, are pivotal in converting propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in industrial processes like Oleflex and Cyclar. Zinc in ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen during aromatization. Gallium-containing catalysts are favored over zinc alone due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures. These transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, are essential for upgrading light gases to higher-value products.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances regioselective H/D exchange in propane methyl groups via Zn2+ cations, favoring hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation/deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification boosts regioselectivity, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, suggesting an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts and zeolites excel in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's selective oxidation ability and ion isolation in a stable matrix boost efficiency (Quote 1, 2). Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding (Quote 4, 5, 6, 7), though not solely sufficient. C-H bond activation type and acidity/basicity are also critical (Quote 8, 9). These factors enhance industrial processes by improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts efficiently convert propane to propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency modulated by reactant partial pressure: low pressures favor hydrogen evolution, while high pressures promote hydrogenolysis. This process is industrially significant for transforming light alkanes into aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn modified ZSM-5 zeolites excel in converting methane to benzene at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions, showcasing high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, and benzene yield escalates with increased methane partial pressure, following a carbenium ion mechanism. These catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact efficiency, making them industrially vital for natural gas utilization.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The ideal catalyst balances CH bond activation and propene release, converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing global olefin demand and highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc-modified catalysts strongly adsorb ethane, leading to heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, whereas gallium-modified catalysts exhibit weak adsorption, with dissociation at high temperatures forming ethyl and hydride fragments. Zinc activation results in Brnsted acid proton formation, unlike gallium, which produces gallium dihydride species. These differences directly influence hydrocarbon conversions in dehydrogenation processes, affecting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development for alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, emphasizes selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, used for CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion, show how pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state, and feed composition impact efficiency and selectivity, crucial for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior in oxidative dehydrogenation are influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. At lower densities, vanadia is dispersed on most supports except SiO2, where it forms V2O5 crystallites. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with density increase, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. UV-visible edge energies decrease as VOx domains grow. Propene selectivities rise with VOx density due to reduced monovanadate species. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support when VOx structure is considered, highlighting the role of catalyst composition and conditions in efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. Selectivity varies with space velocity, influenced by hydrogen diffusion in ZSM-5-Zn channels, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments enable gallium reduction to Ga+, enhancing aromatization activity. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization efficiency as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates optimal, dispersed Ga3+, crucial for ethane conversion. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. Pretreatments significantly impact ethane dehydrogenation catalyst performance. Achieving high aromatics yields often requires adding rhenium, platinum, or rhodium. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts for aromatics production do not consist of framework Ga+.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom desorption. This enables dehydrogenation without cracking, enhancing propene formation and aromatization efficiency while reducing cracking turnover rates, critical for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Ethane activation occurs via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond, which is more favorable due to lower activation barriers, and carbenium activation, which is less favorable. Alkane aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Zinc cations act as acceptors of the alkyl group, facilitating the mechanism. These insights are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes in commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offering a promising alternative. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, as evidenced by 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity correlate with metal loading and surface species dispersion. Over W/HZSM-5, formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, with efficiency influenced by catalyst structure and optimized reaction conditions. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, especially when combined with Mo species, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Metals like Ru and Pt enhance reactivity and stability, while V and Li have opposite effects. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly impact efficiency. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, greatly affect catalytic activity. The interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with Mo introduction altering acid sites and influencing catalytic behavior. Heavy carbonaceous deposits pose challenges to reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature window around 500 C, optimized for selectivity and avoiding combustion. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves terminal oxo species of VV surface sites, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step. Silica is the optimal support for high selectivity. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation reactions and direct aromatization of methane. M-zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx-containing zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O, functionalizing aromatic CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with higher activity from octahedral but greater selectivity from tetrahedral V5+ species. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation, akin to enzymatic reactions, is fundamental. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation employs monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces are more active than supported monomers, significantly impacting propene formation rates over isopropyl alcohol.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly impact alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time enhance methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quote 12). The structure of Fe-ZSM-5, characterized by typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for catalytic activity (Quotes 4 and 5). Reaction conditions critically affect the balance between methanol production and its further oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are crucial in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit higher activity with increased V2O5 loading, optimal at intermediate VOx domain sizes, and selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, and N2O substitution for O2 yields a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst performance depends on the oxide support, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing higher reactivity than V2O5-SiO2. Silica-supported catalysts are more selective than alumina or titania due to reduced propane combustion. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, affecting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is crucial, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an attractive strategy for catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure and electronic properties, decreasing turnover rates and inhibiting CH bond activation, but increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, dictates product formation. Vanadium's valence state is determined by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation, and reduction rates. Surface modifications by hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. Maleic anhydride synthesis involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation, while selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio (4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion) is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is the active phase, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites efficiently convert light alkanes to aromatics, with metal species facilitating dehydrogenation and acid sites driving olefin oligomerization and cyclization. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as dihydrogen, favoring olefin formation and inhibiting hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons, yielding ethane and methane. Further olefin reactions produce aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide sites inside zeolite pores, preceding interaction with acid sites, forming Zn-alkyl species that accelerate conversion to aromatics. Zn and acid sites synergistically enhance aromatization by activating alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and subsequent aromatization steps.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. Zeolites' confined spaces affect reactivity, guided by spectroscopy and theory. Multinuclear oxygenated gallium in high-silica zeolites is essential for activity, with binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhancing ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Stable Ga3+ coordination aids H2 desorption, but hydrogenation risks site reduction. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as evidenced in Ga+/ZSM-5 experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and its molecular structures, influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and the oxide support, have been extensively studied. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. The presence of isolated or polymerized surface vanadia species affects the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports correlates with the catalyst's performance. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. Oxide supports minimally influence the molecular structure of dehydrated surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with TOF influenced by the specific oxide support. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Noninteracting metal oxide additives affect reactions requiring multiple sites, while interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives impact selectivity, with effects varying by reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts convert light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, making them industrially significant. Optimizing composition and conditions enhances yields and selectivities, while regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. High alkene yields require catalysts with isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. The highest alkene yield is achieved with low surface density catalysts at high temperatures. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations, enhancing aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide boosts activity, forming reactive GaO+ ions stabilized by steam. This increases dehydrogenation activity in Ga/ZSM-5 over HZSM-5. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy and facilitating hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Morphology influences oxidizability, and low-temperature treatment in oxygen-containing atmospheres, along with certain additives, enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. Fresh catalysts are more active but less selective, while equilibrated catalysts have stable V4+, crucial for selective paraffin activation in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, specifically methane to formaldehyde, is influenced by their composition and structure. Preparation methods yield monomeric Mo(VI) and polymolybdate species; high Mo loading reduces dispersion and blocks zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts with well-dispersed monomeric species show higher selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in alkane transformations, notably in oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high selectivity. Catalyst efficiency is contingent on zeolite activity, iron's function, matrix composition, and dinitrogen monoxide as an oxidant, underscoring its significance in advanced organic synthesis through selective oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to aromatics, with Mo/HZSM-5 recognized for its activity, enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts efficiency, and Mo leads transition metals in methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 effectively aromatizes methane at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes avoid CO and CO2, producing higher hydrocarbons without oxygen, with CH4 interacting with surface oxygen species for CH bond splitting.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and vanadium loadings. At lower loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, enhancing propene selectivity, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, benefits from high temperatures. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active, with high dispersion yielding optimal performance. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is contingent on composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals such as Ga, Fe, and Zn, when introduced into HZSM-5, elevate acidity and catalytic activity, with acidity increasing in the order HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are crucial for industrial processes like MTG and olefin production, operating under mild conditions to save energy and boost yields. Acid site strength, metal stability, and reducibility are pivotal for alkane selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst enhances methane partial oxidation (MPO) activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Prepared by washing, drying, and calcining, it yields [S]O2MoO2, Mo(VI) surface species. Methane's CH bond weakness, exacerbated by zeolite surface interaction, initiates activation. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting produces isolated MoO42species, boosting formaldehyde yield in MPO. XPS confirms highly dispersed molybdenum(VI) species, and XRD shows no MoO3 aggregates, indicating high dispersion. CO selectivity in Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts correlates with residual acid sites. The new catalyst's structure and composition offer potential for efficient catalysis, crucial for converting methane to methanol and formaldehyde, key components in fuel and organic synthesis, due to natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, which can be mitigated by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption. Catalyst support is critical for vanadium oxide, emphasizing the role of structure and conditions in enhancing efficiency for alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons using catalytic processes. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes, central to aromatization processes like Oleflex and Cyclar, employs ZSM-5 catalysts for converting light gases to aromatics, especially BTX. Aromatization from light alkanes isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 catalysts function similarly, preferred due to zinc's volatility at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, Zn/H-MFI zeolite's composition and structure significantly impact efficiency and mechanisms. Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, facilitating hydrogen removal and altering alkane activation. Two key mechanisms for regioselective H/D exchange in propane are proposed: dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. The unique mechanism for propane on Zn/H-MFI is evidenced by distinct kinetic parameters, highlighting its industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, especially isolated ions in a quasi-inert matrix, are critical for selective alkane oxidation. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, though not solely sufficient, highlighting their industrial significance in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, then dehydrogenate it to propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This explains the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites, making them industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 zeolites excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Increased methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, underlining the industrial significance of these catalysts. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting their efficiency and selectivity for desired chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT studies on V2O5(001) highlight that bridging lattice O atoms ease propene production by weakening propoxide binding, crucial for balancing CH bond activation and propene release. Industrially, these catalysts convert inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins via selective oxidation, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts uniquely activate ethane in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, causing ethyl and hydride fragment formation at high temperatures, resulting in gallium dihydride species. These distinct mechanisms significantly impact dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, highlighting the industrial importance of these catalysts in selective alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 enhance selectivity and longevity in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Efficiency is influenced by pretreatment, temperature, additives, metal state, location, and feed composition, affecting CH3OH, HCHO production, and methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic activity are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, forming large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure, and are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. ZSM-5-Zn facilitates dehydrogenation in quasi-equilibrium, unlike ZSM-5-H where it's rate-controlled. BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). Different aromatization mechanisms on ZSM-5-Zn generate hydrogen, contrasting with the paraffin-generating hydride transfer on ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including ion-exchange and reduction, significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts mimic physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 in redox behavior and activity. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts outperform reduced ones, yielding dispersed Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting aromatics/methane selectivity. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state are crucial for alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not feature Ga+ as framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts enhance alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and recombinative hydrogen desorption, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, and increasing aromatic turnover while reducing cracking. Acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, they improve efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial processes. This role in increasing propene formation contributes to higher yields of desired products and valuable H2 extraction, as evidenced by the provided quotes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations, notably ethane dehydrogenation to ethene, via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Zinc cations facilitate CH bond rupture, with lower activation energy favoring alkyl activation over less favorable carbenium activation. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization, highlighting the industrial significance of these catalysts for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging; direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde offers a potential alternative. Metal oxide dispersion significantly impacts catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show over 90% selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion in W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including Mo species and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The interaction between Mo and HZSM-5 zeolite is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Metal loading, especially Mo and transition metals, enhances reactivity and stability, while V, Li, and P have a contrasting effect. Preparation methods, metal impregnation, and calcination temperature significantly influence performance. Reaction conditions, such as temperature, pressure, and pre-treatment atmosphere, greatly impact catalytic activity. The status of Mo species and its interaction with HZSM-5 are essential for advancing theories on methane activation and overcoming the challenge of carbonaceous deposits, which hinder process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, notably for alkenes like propene, due to silica's optimal support. The narrow optimal temperature window around 500 C avoids combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyzing alkylation and direct aromatization of methane. Ga-zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, forming metalalkyl intermediates, while Zn-zeolites coaromatize methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchanged zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene is higher than to butane oxydehydrogenation products. Tetrahedral V5+ species, observed at lower loadings, enhance selectivity to oxydehydrogenation, while octahedral V5+ species, predominant at higher loadings, boost activity. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V loading and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V loading, also affect efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium oxides on silica, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is crucial, facilitated by monomeric vanadium oxide species. Hydrogen abstraction occurs sequentially at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites, with propene formation rates notably higher on OVV sites. Vanadyl sites are essential in the rate-determining step, and bulk vanadia sites exhibit greater activity than supported monomers, highlighting their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with variable Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), influence alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, with sodium forms boosting selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methane to methanol oxidation selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Temperature and contact time hikes boost methane conversion but reduce methanol selectivity. Methanol production peaks at 350°C, declining at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Fe-HZSM-5 and Fe-NaZSM-5 exhibit distinct methanol and carbon dioxide production rates, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring faster methanol production but also quicker oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    