Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Metal-based catalysts for alkane transformations: Mechanisms, applications, and factors influencing efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, are influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity peaks with optimal V2O5 loading and intermediate VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is maximized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support, notably silica, increases selectivity over alumina and titania. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but enhance propylene selectivity. The isolation of active sites is critical, with microporous and mesoporous materials offering an effective strategy for catalyst design. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts, while less active than vanadia-based ones, show increased reactivity with higher Mo surface density. Alkali dopants affect MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation, yet enhancing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's surface oxidation state, influenced by the feed's redox properties, affects product formation. Vanadium's valence state changes based on the feed's redox potential, reaction temperature, and catalyst's oxidation and reduction rates. Surface modifications induced by C4 hydrocarbons and the P:V ratio impact redox properties and selectivity/activity. The transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods influence redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with the P:V ratio and defect structure playing crucial roles. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation is 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. The P:V ratio determines selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading increasing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The PVO system exhibits intercalation chemistry, affecting catalytic performance. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is influenced by surface oxygen concentrations. Alkenes and alkanes exhibit different kinetic behaviors, with oxygen balances showing Vv phosphate as the oxygen source in both cases, but with higher lattice oxygen incorporation in but-1-ene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins, leading to aromatics. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium to olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer, enhancing ethane and methane formation. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, enhancing reaction rates and lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane activation through dissociative adsorption, preceding interaction with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites boosts aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by catalyst acid sites, promoting aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces foster multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Stable coordination and decreased basicity promote H2 desorption. Water co-feeding increases reactive oxygenated species, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments. These insights are critical for understanding the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species, which are affected by monolayer coverage, stability, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life, and molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species can be reduced in H2 and CO environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states are influenced by hydrocarbon reaction environments. The stability of V(5+) species on silica may relate to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while unsupported V205 has both surface BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases surface Lewis acid sites and increases surface Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity. Bridging V-O-V bonds increase with surface vanadia coverage, while bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but their impact is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, efficiently transform alkanes into valuable products through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their performance is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, particularly the nature of active sites, acidity, and pore structure. These catalysts activate light alkanes under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing yields and selectivities, contributing to their industrial significance. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalyzes ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with propene formation rates eight times higher than ethene, yet sharing similar activation energies. Initial alkene selectivity is enhanced by isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. The local structure of supported vanadia domains significantly affects reaction rates and selectivity. The highest alkene yields are achieved with isolated monovanadates at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence rates and selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane ODH are similar, with propene formation being more favorable. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5 exhibit enhanced activity upon oxidation by nitrous oxide, forming reactive gallyl ions. Steam stabilizes GaO+, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites, exposure of the (001) plane, and V5+ reduction extent. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology impacts oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are critical for the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, vital for alkane transformations, were tested in methane partial oxidation to formaldehyde. Two series were prepared: one by conventional impregnation, yielding monomeric and polymolybdate species; high Mo loading caused dispersion decrease and channel blocking. The other series, prepared by impregnation followed by ammonia washing, resulted in a dispersed monomeric phase. Polymolybdate species showed higher methane reactivity but lower formaldehyde selectivity, while treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient catalysts for oxidative hydroxylation of aromatics, achieving nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% benzene conversion. Efficiency is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties, offering promising technologies in organic synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are critical in converting methane to higher hydrocarbons like benzene. Synergetic effects between transition metals and zeolite supports are essential, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. Enhancements in activity and stability are achieved by adding Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification and direct routes for methanol and formaldehyde are significant. Methane aromatization over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied, with WH2SO4/HZSM-5 showing promise at high temperatures, though coke formation is a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support nature, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form on alumina surfaces, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with high temperatures observed in catalytic beds. The highest propene selectivity is achieved with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, which are active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 cavities form active species, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites increases from HZSM-5 to Zn/ZSM-5, with Lewis site strength following Al > Ga > Zn > Fe. These factors, alongside reaction conditions, significantly influence alkane selectivity and conversion, making them industrially significant in petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MPO catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing activity over traditional Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Methane's CH bond weakness, initiated by zeolite surface interaction, is crucial for activation. Highly dispersed MoO42species were obtained, improving formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. This innovation is industrially significant for converting methane into valuable organic compounds like methanol and formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which can be reduced by considering complex reactions and the role of a support, emphasizing the significance of catalyst structure in efficiency. The need for a support for vanadium oxide highlights its role in lowering barriers and improving the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including methane, are converted to methanol and higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes transforming independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is central in aromatization processes, especially for BTX production, utilizing catalysts like ZSM-5. Selectivity in converting alkanes to aromatics is partial, with light alkenes also produced. Zn-ZSM-5 enhances BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates alkane transformations through regioselective H/D exchange in propane, driven by Zn2+ cations acting as Lewis sites. Two mechanisms are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zeolite modification with Zn enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, with kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differing from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts and zeolites are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation. Vanadium's selective oxidation role and ion isolation in a stable matrix are pivotal. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality supports catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient. These factors are critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, and subsequent dehydrogenation yields propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites efficiently convert methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, with high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn enhances methane activation, increasing benzene yield as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is proposed for methane activation. These catalysts' composition and structure significantly impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency, particularly in dehydrogenation and aromatization processes. The enhanced catalytic activity by metal cations contributes to their industrial significance, enabling selective and stable methane conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. CH bond activation on V2O5(001) surfaces via radical and oxo-insertion pathways influences propene production, with bridging O atoms facilitating easier propene release due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is inefficient due to overactive terminal O atoms hindering propene release. An effective catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes to olefins, addressing global demand through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, polarizing it at room temperature and facilitating heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures without Brnsted acid proton formation. These differences are critical for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, such as FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial for alkane transformations, impacting efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Key factors include pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the active metal state, and feed composition. Enhancing selectivity and longevity through catalyst development is essential for these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic efficiency are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms large V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities increase with VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are similar across supports and VOx structures.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher BTX selectivity. Propane undergoes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity boosts BTX selectivity on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn yields hydrogen, contrasting with ZSM-5-H's paraffin generation. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly aromatization and dehydrogenation, is influenced by pretreatments. Reduced gallium (Ga+) in ion-exchanged ZSM-5, limited by anionic framework sites, is as active for propane aromatization as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. However, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation to aromatics. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane conversion, which is stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio, indicating relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking. For high aromatics yields, rhenium, platinum, or rhodium are added to the catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating chemical conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They facilitate H-atom removal, essential for dihydrogen formation and dehydrogenation without cracking. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn enhance propene and aromatic production while reducing cracking, improving reaction rates, selectivity, and H2 extraction from light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Activation energies for key steps were computed. Carbenium activation is less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, but direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde could replace the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with studies showing formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion, as demonstrated in the partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen, where formaldehyde selectivity is linked to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Key factors include catalyst modification, optimized reaction conditions, and the interaction between Mo species and HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity. Select metal loading boosts reactivity and stability, whereas others may reduce it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature are influential. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Understanding Mo species' role in methane dehydro-aromatization over Mo/HZSM-5 is critical for methane chemistry and activation theory. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction comprehension and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species on silica, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow optimal temperature window, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, where H-abstraction by VV surface oxo species is crucial. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via metalalkyl intermediates, catalyzing alkylation and direct methane aromatization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane into methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V. Selectivity for ethene is higher than for butane products. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low and VO6 octahedra at high vanadium loadings, with tetrahedral V5+ species enhancing selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting catalytic selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, by activating CH bonds, essential in industrial and enzymatic processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites in bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, highlighting the impact of catalyst structure on reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, are critical in methane conversion to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content increases methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time significantly impact conversion and selectivity; higher temperatures increase conversion but decrease methanol selectivity (Quotes 9 & 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but its concentration decreases at higher temperatures due to oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (Quotes 11 & 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, especially oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by metal cation agglomeration, acid-base properties, valence state, and electronic characteristics. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts' activity rises with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal vanadium atom reactivity. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. The extent of vanadium reduction and the number of catalytically active centers are influenced by alkane/O2 ratios and the specific oxide support. Catalyst selectivity is affected by the support material, with vanadia on silica being more selective than on alumina or titania. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance, with alkali and alkaline earth dopants decreasing activity but increasing propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The catalyst's efficiency is influenced by its composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed determine the surface oxidation state, affecting product formation. The valence state of vanadium, dependent on the redox potential of the feed, oxidation rate, and reduction rate, is crucial. Two steps are identified in the transformation from alkane to maleic anhydride: oxidative dehydrogenation to adsorbed butadiene, controlled by the rate of Vw reduction, and further oxidation, controlled by the amount of Vv available. A high Vv content can lead to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion is related to the rate of vanadium(V) formation. Catalyst preparation impacts redox properties, with more oxidizable catalysts showing higher maleic anhydride decomposition rates at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system's P:V ratio, oxidation states, and defect structure significantly affect catalytic performance. The optimal V4+/V5+ ratio for n-butane oxidation selectivity is crucial, with 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion showing optimal properties. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, enhancing H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes and increasing reaction rates by lowering activation energies. Alkanes adsorb on Zn oxide sites before interacting with Brnsted acid sites, forming Zn alkyl species that facilitate H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites boosts aromatization ability by activating alkane CH bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, studied through spectroscopy and theory. Gallium species form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, driving oligomerization. Binuclear gallium-oxo cations enhance heterolytic CH cleavage, aiding ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition, reducing reactivity. Water co-feeding boosts reactive oxygenated species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity, as confirmed by catalytic experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, ensuring long catalyst life, and the molecular structures of the surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. The hydration-dehydration processes are reversible, and reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. Surface vanadia species' reactivity is affected by the oxidation state, the specific oxide support, and the ratio of polymerized to isolated species. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is attributed to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. The reactivity properties are associated with the dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) species. The critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is linked to the bridging V-O-support bond, and changing the oxide support affects the TOF. Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple surface sites, while basic additives can decrease TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence the selectivity of hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, but the effect is reaction-specific.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure playing key roles. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing catalyst composition and reaction conditions boosts yields and selectivities, while innovative regeneration methods can counteract deactivation, extending operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts exhibit enhanced propene formation rates, eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The ratio of alkane combustion to oxidative dehydrogenation rates is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly for propane. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom peak at intermediate surface densities. The highest alkene yields are achieved with predominantly isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces significantly influence reaction rates and selectivity. Detailed kinetic analysis reveals that as surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting reaction rates and selectivity. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 ratios lead to higher alkene selectivity. Activation energies for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation and combustion are similar, with weak dependence on vanadia surface density. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, driving processes like light alkane aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, especially the role of extraframework oxygen atoms, is pivotal in alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive GaO+ ions, which are stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering hydrogen recombination energy. Stable tetrahedral Ga3+ configurations facilitate hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by the preparation method, P/V ratio, additives, temperature, and conditioning. The P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, with a slight excess of phosphorus enhancing catalyst performance. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation at high temperatures, and low-temperature treatment in an oxygen atmosphere impacts catalyst behavior. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, and a balanced P/V ratio ensures high activity and selectivity. These factors are crucial for industrial processes involving alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts impact alkane transformations through their composition and structure. Polymolybdate species, predominant at high molybdenum loading (>1.3 wt.%), increase methane conversion but decrease formaldehyde selectivity. In contrast, monomeric species, achieved through ammonia washing, yield lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting their specificity for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are highly efficient in oxidative hydroxylation, exemplified by converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant features, promising new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal-supported zeolites catalyze methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a pivotal strategy for methane conversion. Synergy between metal components and zeolite supports, active species, and mechanisms is revealed through studies. Oxygen's role in deep methane oxidation drives efforts to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively researched. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits. Supported Pt catalysts enable two-step methane transformation. PtCrO3/HZSM-5 and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites achieve methane aromatization to benzene. Transition metal ions' activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 catalyzes methane aromatization at high temperatures, though coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond's splitting in methane is attributed to surface oxygen species interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is exothermic, with optimal temperatures around 873 K. High dispersion of tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 create active species, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, crucial for selectivity and conversion. Metal species stability and reducibility are also key. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG and olefin manufacture from methanol, operating under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) exhibits superior activity compared to classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. Prepared by grafting onto dried HZSM-5, the catalyst yields highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species after calcination. This process, unlike aqueous impregnation, avoids MoO3 aggregates, leading to isolated MoO42species. The catalyst's high formaldehyde yield is attributed to these species, confirmed by UV and XPS analysis. Methane conversion to methanol and formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. The new catalyst's MoO42species improve formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, for propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, which are reduced by considering a triplet state. These barriers are higher than those for supported vanadia, indicating the support's role in lowering adsorption barriers. Complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, can further lower barriers, enhancing catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes, with dehydrogenation central to Oleflex and aromatization in Cyclar and MB-forming. ZSM-5 catalysts are key in converting light gases to aromatics, notably BTX, but conversion isn't fully selective, forming light alkenes. Zn-ZSM-5 releases dihydrogen during aromatization, enhancing BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane, influenced by Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites. This modifies alkane activation mechanisms, favoring hydrogen removal over methyl groups, and highlights the significance of catalyst modification in achieving regioselectivity and altering reaction pathways in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's role in selective oxidation and its isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are pivotal. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation type, and acidity/basicity. While multifunctionality is essential, it's not solely adequate. These factors are key to the industrial relevance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, subsequently dehydrogenating to produce propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency influenced by partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process is industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, crucial petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K efficiently convert methane to benzene with high selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 significantly activates methane, enhancing dehydrogenation and aromatization. Increasing methane partial pressure boosts benzene yield, demonstrating the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in alkane transformations through a carbenium ion mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show that both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, with the latter facilitating easier propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. However, the high activity of terminal O hinders propene release, highlighting the need for a balance in efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive alkane transformations through unique mechanisms. Zinc facilitates ethane's heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, leading to ethyl and hydride fragments at high temperatures, and gallium dihydride species instead of Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect hydrocarbon conversions in dehydrogenation, influencing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst development is critical for advancing methane conversion, focusing on selectivity and longevity. FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 are examples for methane-to-aromatics conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment, temperature, additives, metal state, location, and feed composition, essential for optimizing industrial alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. As density increases, structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves propane dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. ZSM-5-H controls dehydrogenation rate, while ZSM-5-Zn operates in quasi-equilibrium. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatics or olefins adsorption on high silica zeolites can generate radical species, affecting the aromatization mechanism. ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, while ZSM-5-H uses hydride transfer. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments, including reduction and reoxidation, significantly influence aromatization and dehydrogenation activities. Reduced gallium (Ga+) enhances propane aromatization but is less active for ethane dehydrogenation compared to reoxidized materials. Reoxidation at 550C generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts dehydrogenation rates of alkenes, dienes, and cycloalkenes. High surface area Ga2O3 and steamed gallosilicates aromatize aliphatic dienes at 500-600C. Catalyst dispersion and gallium's oxidation state affect the aromatics/methane selectivity ratio, indicating relative rates of alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking. Reduced Ga+ isn't the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species, boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion and recombinative hydrogen desorption, enhancing H2 formation. They enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking, acting as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, which improves efficiency and selectivity. This leads to higher yields of desired products like propene and reduced by-product formation, making them industrially significant for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, influence alkane transformations through two ethane activation routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Dehydrogenation to alkenes is the first step in ethane and propane aromatization, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism initiates with ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for key steps are significant, with the carbenium activation route being less favorable due to a high activation barrier. These catalysts enhance selectivity towards aromatization of small alkanes, crucial for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide dispersion and nature significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Studies show 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion with MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion on W/HZSM-5 catalysts, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, affecting mechanisms and efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions' interactions with zeolite supports, particularly Mo species with HZSM-5, are critical. Select metals (Ru, Pt, W) boost reactivity and stability, while others (V, Li, P) have a detrimental effect. Preparation methods and calcination temperatures influence performance. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is essential for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, affecting reaction pathways. Heavy carbonaceous deposits hinder reaction understanding and process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivity on small clusters and fully covered oxide surfaces, particularly with silica as the optimal support (Quote 1, 3, 5). Oxidative dehydrogenation requires a narrow temperature window around 500 C to prevent combustion and unselective reactions (Quote 6). The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV surface species being the most reactive, as confirmed by DFT calculations (Quote 7). Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation reactions, and directly aromatize methane (Quote 12, 13). Ga- and Zn-zeolites, due to their industrial relevance, activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity (Quote 23).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity increases with vanadium loading, peaking at 3-4 wt% V atoms, while selectivity to ethene is higher than to oxydehydrogenation products. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, offering greater selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, whereas octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings, enhancing activity. Acid site nature varies with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation processes. CH bond activation is central to these transformations, influencing both technological and enzymatic reactions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is modeled using monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction primarily occurring on OVV sites and secondarily at VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit enhanced activity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium or hydrogen forms, influence methane conversion and methanol selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content increases methane conversion, while the sodium form boosts selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with the lowest iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for understanding the mechanisms of alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal for alkane transformations. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced and selective surface than O2. Catalyst support affects V5+ reduction and reactivity, with V2O5-ZrO2 > V2O5-Al2O3 > V2O5-SiO2 in ethane ODH. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity in propane ODH. The selectivity order follows increasing basicity and MO bond energy. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with activity per Mo atom peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, inhibiting initial reduction and slowing CH bond activation. Basic dopants enhance propylene selectivity by weakening Lewis acidity of Mo sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation, influenced by feed redox properties, surface modifications, and reaction conditions. The valence state of vanadium, controlled by feed redox potential, catalyst oxidation and reduction rates, dictates product selectivity. Surface dynamics and modifications, induced by hydrocarbons, reveal the importance of Vw reduction and Vv availability in the two-step reaction to maleic anhydride. Selectivity is linked to vanadium(V) formation rate, with optimal performance at specific V4+/V5+ ratios. Catalyst preparation affects redox properties, impacting selectivity at high conversion. The vanadium phosphorus oxide (PVO) system, with its interconversion of V(IV) and V(V) phases, is crucial for understanding the active phase. Synthesis variables, like solvent use, influence crystallinity and defect structure, affecting catalytic performance. The P:V ratio, crucial for selectivity and activity, optimizes at 1.1. PVO exhibits intercalation chemistry, with phase stability affecting catalytic efficiency. Vanadyl pyrophosphate is identified as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. High phosphorus loading increases selectivity for maleic anhydride, while specific activity decreases. The mechanism of selective n-butane conversion to maleic anhydride is supported by high surface oxygen concentrations, indicating a single-site mechanism. Kinetic differences between alkene and alkane reactants suggest distinct catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity, involving metal species for dehydrogenation and Brnsted acid sites for olefin oligomerization and cyclization. CH bond cleavage predominantly occurs at acid sites, with Ga or Zn catalyzing H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Olefins further oligomerize and dehydrocyclize into aromatics. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and facilitating reversible CH bond formation. Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores activate alkanes before interacting with acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and acid sites activates alkane CH bonds, leading to dehydrogenation and aromatic formation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by its promotion of H/D exchange and its role in alkane activation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Zeolites' confined spaces influence reactivity, with spectroscopy and theory guiding structure-activity relationships. GaO+ species oligomerize in microporous spaces, forming multinuclear oxygenated gallium species. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species enhance ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity of extraframework oxygen and stable Ga3+ coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite dehydrogenation activity, highlighting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability and molecular structure of surface vanadia species, which are determined by factors such as surface coverage, oxidation state, and the nature of the oxide support. The stability of the surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst lifespans, and its molecular structure is influenced by the net pH of the aqueous thin film. Reducing environments lead to the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The reactivity of surface vanadia species is linked to the dehydrated V(5+) form, and the critical oxygen for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions is associated with bridging V-O-support bonds. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule, with reactions needing multiple sites being sensitive to surface vanadia coverage. Interacting additives, such as acidic and basic ones, can influence selectivity, though their effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly affect oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions' efficiency. These catalysts activate light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and reaction conditions enhancing efficiency, leading to higher yields and selectivities. Their industrial importance lies in transforming alkanes into aromatics and isomers, with novel regeneration methods combating deactivation and prolonging operational life.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities and structures were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are higher than ethene rates, yet activation energies are similar. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species, operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites, affecting reaction rates. High alkene yields require optimized values of rate constants k1, k2/k1, and k3/k1. Acid-base properties of vanadia and support surfaces influence reaction rates and selectivity. Spectroscopic results suggest distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures at low surface densities, enhancing initial alkene selectivity. Alkene selectivity improves with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, including aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. The nature of cationic clusters, whether isolated or involving extraframework oxygen atoms, is key for alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimer involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 crystallites and V5+ reduction. A high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, while morphology influences oxidizability. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and certain additives impact performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, display varied activities based on composition and structure. Two series were tested: conventionally impregnated catalysts featured monomeric and polymolybdate species, with high Mo loadings causing reduced dispersion and channel blocking (Quote 2, 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, had a well-dispersed monomeric phase (Quote 4). Polymolybdate species showed higher methane conversion but lower formaldehyde selectivity (Quote 5), whereas treated catalysts had lower methane conversion but higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites catalyze selective oxidation reactions, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene conversion to phenol at 25-30% conversion, highlighting the role of iron, zeolite matrix composition, and oxidant features in catalyst efficiency for alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Transition metal supported zeolite catalysts are pivotal in methane's dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene, a key strategy for its conversion. Oxygen's role in deep oxidation highlights its necessity in many conversion processes, while researchers strive to produce higher hydrocarbons without oxygen to minimize CO and CO2 formation. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity from Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored for improved efficiency. Indirect methane conversion involves synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct conversion yields ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane since 1982 is an alternative direct conversion route. Multi-component catalysts activate methane to form benzene and carbon deposits, and supported Pt catalysts enable a two-step route to higher hydrocarbons. Methane aromatization to benzene over PtCrO3/HZSM-5 showcases the catalyst's versatility. Transition metal ions, preparation, and treatment methods significantly impact catalyst performance, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity for methane aromatization. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective at high temperatures, but coke formation was overlooked. The CH bond splits due to CH4's interaction with surface oxygen, and direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes are explored. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide species' catalytic properties in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, are influenced by preparation method, support nature, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane dehydrogenation, an exothermic reaction, reaches peak temperatures around 873 K with concentrated feeds. The highest propene selectivity is associated with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have lower catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium as AlVO4 increases with higher loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, crucial for efficiency, increases in the sequence HZSM-5 < Ga/ZSM-5 < Fe/ZSM-5 < Zn/ZSM-5. These catalysts are significant in the petrochemical industry for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture, and light alkane aromatization due to their ability to catalyze reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are key for selectivity and conversion of alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including those for methane partial oxidation (MPO), are pivotal in alkane transformations. A new MPO catalyst was developed by grafting MoO2(acac)2 onto HZSM-5 zeolite, enhancing activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts. This process, involving reactive acid hydroxyl groups and acetylacetonate ligands, yields isolated MoO42species with high dispersion, improving formaldehyde yield. The mechanism begins with the weakening of the CH bond in methane due to interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the dispersion and nature of the metal oxide phase. The new catalyst, characterized by UV diffuse reflectance and XPS analysis, shows Mo(VI) species highly dispersed on the surface, unlike aggregates found in aqueous impregnation methods. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity. The conversion of methane into methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies reveal high energy barriers, 45-80 kcal/mol, in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide, significantly higher than experimental findings for supported vanadia. Considering complex reactions, like O2 adsorption during water elimination, and the involvement of a support are essential for reducing barriers and enhancing efficiency in industrial catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably ZSM-5, convert propane and butane to aromatics and alkenes in processes like Oleflex and Cyclar, focusing on BTX production. Conversion isn't selective, yielding light alkenes alongside aromatics. Zn-ZSM-5 boosts BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 are favored due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "In Zn/H-MFI zeolite, Zn2+ cations act as strong Lewis sites, modifying alkane activation mechanisms and favoring hydrogen removal. Two regioselective H/D exchange mechanisms in propane are proposed: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification shifts the exchange mechanism, enhancing regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups, as indicated by kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI, suggesting an alternative mechanism compared to H-MFI and sulfated zirconia.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium, favored for selective oxidation, requires isolation in a quasi-inert matrix for optimal performance. Product stability, multifunctionality, and the type of C-H bond activation are essential, as are acidity and basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidating reaction mechanisms but isn't solely sufficient, highlighting the complexity of these industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane, forming propylene and dihydrogen, with efficiency dependent on pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. This process shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, which undergoes further reactions, explaining higher aromatization activity in Zn-containing zeolites. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo-modified ZSM-5 zeolites excel in converting methane to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions, with Mo and Zn enhancing catalytic activity and methane activation. The carbenium ion mechanism and reaction conditions, including temperature, contribute to the industrial significance of these catalysts by enabling high selectivity and stability in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) show similar activation energies for CH bond activation by terminal and bridging lattice O atoms, with the latter favoring propene production due to weaker propoxide binding. Single-crystal V2O5(001) is suboptimal as the terminal O is too active for propene release, highlighting the need for a balance in CH bond activation and propene release for efficient catalysts. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, addressing global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct mechanisms, impacting hydrocarbon conversions. Zinc forms acid-base pairs, enabling strong ethane adsorption and heterolytic dissociation at moderate temperatures, producing Brnsted acid protons. Gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with dissociative adsorption at high temperatures, forming ethyl and hydride fragments, and yielding gallium dihydride species. These differences significantly affect dehydrogenation efficiency and are crucial for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial for alkane transformations, specifically in methane conversion. Efficiency and selectivity are impacted by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. Industrial processes, such as oxidative dehydrogenation, require catalysts with higher selectivity and longevity for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's catalytic efficiency is influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. At densities below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia forms dispersed species on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2, but crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Initial propene selectivities increase with higher VOx density as monovanadate species and support sites favoring combustion decrease. Oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn, affecting BTX selectivity. Over ZSM-5-Zn, BTX selectivity increases slightly with space velocity due to hydrogen diffusion affecting local hydrogen concentration. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn. Aromatization mechanisms differ, with hydrogen generation over ZSM-5-Zn versus hydride transfer over ZSM-5-H.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, with reduced gallium (Ga+) limited by anionic framework sites, are active for propane aromatization, similar to physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. Reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for ethane dehydrogenation, generating dispersed Ga3+ at 550C, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, with aromatics/methane selectivity indicating these rates. For high aromatics yields, trace metals like rhenium are added. Reduced Ga2O3 disperses gallium, but optimal catalysts do not consist of Ga+ framework cations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Ga and Zn species in zeolites, boost alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. They accelerate chemical conversion, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation, facilitating H2 formation and propene production. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enabling dehydrogenation without cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. This boosts desired product yields and reduces by-product formation, underlining their industrial importance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze alkane transformations via two ethane activation routes: alkyl CH bond activation and carbenium activation. Aromatization starts with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. Mechanisms involve ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an acceptor. Activation energies for key steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1. Carbenium activation has a high barrier of 67.6 kcal mol-1, making it less favorable.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, impacting formaldehyde selectivity and methane conversion. Banares et al. achieved over 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed over W/HZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrating the critical role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation mechanisms and efficiency. The Mo-HZSM-5 interaction is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with HZSM-5's channel structure, acidity, and Mo species' valence and location being critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loadings enhance reactivity and stability, while preparation methods and reaction conditions significantly influence performance. Acid site changes due to Mo species and second metal addition affect zeolite activity, impacting process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene for oxidative dehydrogenation, optimal at a narrow temperature window around 500 C to avoid combustion and unselective reactions. Silica supports high selectivity, and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), including Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics via multifunctional catalysis, involving metalalkyl intermediates. M-zeolites can directly aromatize methane, with Mo or Zn-containing zeolites achieving high selectivity for benzene and H2. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly influences catalytic behavior in oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane. Activity rises with higher loading, yet selectivity to olefins peaks at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to oxydehydrogenation products is lower for butane than ethene. At lower loadings, tetrahedral V5+ species are observed, while octahedral V5+ species dominate at higher loadings. Catalysts with octahedral V5+ have higher activity, but selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions is higher with tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brønsted, vary with vanadium loading, affecting selectivity and activity in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably supported vanadium oxides, are pivotal in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation, modeled with vanadyl-substituted silsesquioxane, reveals hydrogen abstraction primarily on OVV sites and secondarily on VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Propene formation rates are notably higher on OVV sites compared to HOVIV sites. Vanadyl sites are crucial in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites exhibit greater activity in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation when integrated into the bulk surface rather than as monomers on silica.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and forms (sodium or hydrogen), significantly influence methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, as evidenced by a 31.51% conversion rate with the highest iron content (quote 6). The sodium form enhances selectivity towards oxygenates (quote 7). Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content (quote 8). Increasing temperature and contact time improves methane conversion but reduces methanol selectivity (quotes 9 and 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide (quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and collective electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased activity with higher V2O5 loading, and optimal rates per vanadium atom are achieved on VOx domains of intermediate size. Selectivity to olefins peaks at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structures. Surface reduction enhances selectivity to propylene, and using N2O instead of O2 results in a more reduced and selective surface. The extent of V5+ reduction is support-dependent, with V2O5-ZrO2 showing the highest reactivity. Silica-supported catalysts are more selective than alumina or titania-supported ones. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase selectivity to propylene. Supported molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, but their reactivity increases with Mo surface density. Alkali affects MoOx domain structure and properties, decreasing turnover rates with increasing dopant/Mo ratio and basicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, impact alkane transformations through their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. The redox properties of the feed alter the catalyst's surface oxidation state, influencing product formation. Vanadium's valence state is influenced by the feed's redox potential, catalyst oxidation and reduction rates at reaction temperatures. A two-step mechanism for alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by Vw reduction and Vv availability. High Vv content leads to over-oxidation. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. Catalyst preparation methods and the P:V ratio determine redox properties. At low conversion, catalysts show similar selectivity, but at high conversion, more oxidizable catalysts decompose maleic anhydride faster. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system's solid-state chemistry affects catalytic performance, with optimal V4+/V5+ ratios and P:V ratios of 1.1 for best selectivity and activity. Surface oxygen concentration supports a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different hydrocarbons interact uniquely with the catalyst surface, affecting reactivity and product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites effectively catalyze light alkanes to aromatics. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies and influencing alkane activation through dissociative adsorption on Zn oxide species. This interaction precedes the alkane's engagement with Brnsted acid sites, leading to the formation of Zn-alkyl species that enhance aromatization ability through synergetic action with Brnsted sites. Zn directly influences the activation of alkane CH bonds by Brnsted acid sites, promoting the conversion of alkanes to aromatics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. Confined spaces in zeolites influence reactivity, shaping structure-activity relationships. GaO+ species oligomerize to multinuclear oxygenated gallium species, enhancing catalytic activity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate ethane dehydrogenation via heterolytic CH cleavage. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting dehydrogenation activity in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite, as experiments confirm.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, with surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are critical in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which remains intact under various conditions, ensuring long catalyst lifespans. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species, determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film, are crucial for reactivity. Surface vanadia species exhibit reversible hydration-dehydration processes and can be reduced in hydrogen and carbon monoxide environments, forming V(4+) and V(3+) species. Oxidation states of surface vanadia species during reactions have been studied using in situ Raman spectroscopy, revealing the predominant species and the extent of reduction. The stability of V(5+) species on silica supports, containing only isolated species, may enhance catalyst stability. Preparation methods do not significantly alter the molecular structure of surface vanadia species. Surface Lewis acid sites are present on oxide supports, while unsupported V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. The formation of surface vanadia species decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly V(5+). Terminal V=O bonds do not contain critical oxygen for reactivity, whereas bridging V-O-support bonds are crucial, with the specific oxide support affecting the TOF. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the reactant molecule. Interacting additives, such as niobia, can increase the TOF for reactions requiring multiple sites, while basic additives can retard reduction and decrease TOFs. Acidic and basic additives influence selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions, with active sites, acidity, and pore structure being critical. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions boosting yields and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies for both. Isolated monovanadate species at low surface densities yield the highest initial alkene selectivity. Ethene and propene formation rates peak at intermediate vanadia surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Smaller k3/k1 and k2/k1 values lead to higher alkene selectivity. The highest alkene yields are achieved with catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species operated at high temperatures avoiding homogeneous reactions. Increasing surface density leads to the formation of two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites. Alkene selectivity increases with higher reaction temperatures and lower vanadia surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane-to-gasoline conversion. Cationic clusters, especially the interaction with extraframework oxygen atoms, significantly impact alkane activation. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide yields reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, boosting dehydrogenation. Water facilitates the formation of reactive hydrolyzed gallium species, lowering the energy barrier for hydrogen recombination. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions aids hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair of Ga3+ and extraframework oxygen, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207, enhancing catalyst performance. Morphology influences oxidizability, with low-temperature treatment and additives affecting catalyst activity. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups, optimizing catalyst behavior. A slight phosphorus excess avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity. These factors are crucial for the industrial significance of metal-based catalysts in selective paraffin activation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts, pivotal for alkane transformations, demonstrate efficiency variability linked to composition and structure. Two series were examined: conventionally prepared catalysts featured tetrahedral monomeric Mo(VI) and octahedral polymolybdate species. High molybdenum loading (over 1.3 wt.%) boosts polymolybdate species, hindering dispersion and partially obstructing zeolite channels (Quote 3). The second series, treated with ammonia, showcased a well-dispersed molybdenum oxide phase, predominantly tetrahedral monomeric species. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but compromise formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, treated catalysts exhibit lower methane conversion yet higher formaldehyde selectivity, underscoring the specificity of monomeric Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites are exceptional catalysts in selective oxidation reactions, specifically converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, including oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, the role of iron, the chemical composition of the zeolite matrix, and the oxidant's properties. Advancements in aromatic hydroxylation could lead to new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Methane's catalytic dehydrocondensation to benzene and naphthalene on transition metal supported zeolites is pivotal for its conversion. Mo/HZSM-5 is a recognized effective catalyst, with enhanced activity and stability through the addition of Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Studies confirm the sequence of transition metal activity as Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Catalyst modification, focusing on zeolite micropores, has been extensively explored. Indirect methane conversion processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes can yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane as an alternative direct conversion method has been widely studied since 1982. Methane can be activated over multi-component catalysts to form benzene and carbonaceous deposits, and transformed into higher hydrocarbons over supported Pt catalysts. The splitting of the CH bond in methane is attributed to its interaction with surface oxygen species. Direct transformation routes for methanol and formaldehyde have been investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the molecular structure of surface species, which is shaped by preparation methods, support type, promotors, and environmental conditions. At lower vanadium loadings, isolated and polymerized VO4 units form, while VO6 octahedra dominate at higher loadings. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation is a strong exothermic reaction, reaching temperatures up to 873 K. The highest propene selectivity correlates with the highest dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species, both active in propane dehydrogenation. The AlVO4 phase and bulk-like V2O5 have low catalytic activity, and the portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Metals Ga, Fe, and Zn in HZSM-5 form active species like (GaO)+ and (HOFeOFeOH)2+, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios, which are crucial for catalytic activity. The strength and density of these sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, affect selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant for catalyzing reactions under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption, and increasing yields, making them economically viable for large-scale production of petrochemicals. Active species and acidity levels, influenced by reaction conditions, are essential for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst enhances methane partial oxidation (MPO) efficiency, outperforming classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. Methane's conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's preparation involves grafting onto dried HZSM-5, yielding highly dispersed MoO42species. This process strengthens formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions, attributed to the specific activity of isolated MoO42species. XPS and XRD analyses confirm the presence of molybdenum(VI) species and the absence of MoO3 aggregates, unlike aqueous impregnation methods. CO selectivity is influenced by residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, affecting the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which can be lowered by considering a triplet state and complex reactions like O2 adsorption during water elimination. The need for a support to reduce propane adsorption barriers highlights the significance of catalyst structure in enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic dehydrogenation converts light alkanes to aromatics and alkenes, crucial for light gas to BTX aromatics conversion using ZSM-5 catalysts. Selectivity isn't absolute, with light alkenes forming. Zn-ZSM-5 releases hydrogen as dihydrogen during aromatization, boosting BTX selectivity. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 operate similarly, favoring gallium to prevent zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, enhances alkane transformations by altering the mechanism, favoring hydrogen removal. Zn2+ cations act as Lewis sites, promoting regioselective H/D exchange in propane through two mechanisms: dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification boosts regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are crucial for alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Vanadium's role as the preferred element for selective oxidation and the isolation of its ions in a quasi-inert matrix are pivotal. Product stability, multifunctionality in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity significantly enhance efficiency. While multifunctionality is essential, it alone is not sufficient. These factors greatly impact the industrial significance of these processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane via dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups. Propyl groups dehydrogenate and hydrogen recombines over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo/Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently convert methane to chemical products and fuels, addressing a significant challenge in catalysis science. These catalysts show high activity and selectivity for benzene production at high temperatures under non-oxidizing conditions. Methane activation is significantly improved by Mo or Zn incorporation, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises, suggesting a carbenium ion mechanism for activation. The efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes, is influenced by the presence of metal cations, contributing to the industrial significance of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like V2O5 and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations through oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. DFT calculations on propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) highlight the role of both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms in CH bond activation, with the bridging O site favoring propene production. An efficient catalyst must balance CH bond activation and propene release. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into olefins, meeting global demand for these products.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct alkane transformation mechanisms in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption at moderate temperatures, forming Brnsted acid protons upon ethane dissociation. In contrast, gallium facilitates ethane dissociation at high temperatures, creating ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences impact hydrocarbon conversions, affecting efficiency and selectivity in industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and catalyst longevity. Efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes is influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, active metal state and location, and feed composition. These factors are critical for optimizing industrial catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure and catalytic behavior are influenced by support type (Al2O3, SiO2, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2) and vanadium surface density. Below 7 VOx/nm2, vanadia is highly dispersed on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, ZrO2, but forms V2O5 crystallites on SiO2. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 with increased density, appearing earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak at intermediate VOx domain sizes, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure differences are accounted for. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity (60-70%). The mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, aromatization, and concurrent cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrated over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion are 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increases over ZSM-5-Zn. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics contribute to C,-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn, influenced by hydrogen diffusion and local hydrogen concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Pretreatments of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts significantly influence aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 reduces gallium to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts exhibit similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as physical Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized materials are more active and selective than reduced Ga/ZSM-5. Reoxidation generates dispersed Ga3+, optimal for ethane aromatization, stable under reaction conditions but reducible by hydrogen. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating dehydrogenation and recombinative hydrogen desorption, enhancing propane dehydrocyclodimerization to C6 aromatics. These metals act as 'portholes', facilitating H-atom removal and H2 formation, enabling dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. They increase propene and aromatic turnover rates while decreasing cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity, thus boosting yields of desired products and reducing by-products in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-exchanged zeolites catalyze ethane dehydrogenation to ethene via two routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. The alkyl activation route, with lower activation energies (18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1), is favored over the carbenium route, which has a high activation barrier (67.6 kcal mol-1). This enhances selectivity for small alkane aromatization, a critical process in industry. The zinc cation acts as an acceptor in the alkyl rupture mechanism, facilitating the transformation.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to valuable fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, with studies showing formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2 catalysts. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Metal ions interacting with zeolite supports affect aromatics and carbon deposit formation. HZSM-5 zeolite's channel structure and acidity, along with Mo species' valence and location, are critical for catalytic activity. Select metal loading boosts reactivity and stability, while others diminish it. Preparation methods and calcination temperature impact performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is pivotal for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization. Acid sites change with Mo introduction, influencing reaction pathways. Methane activation modes and carbon deposit formation remain contentious, impacting process development.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes for oxidative dehydrogenation at a narrow temperature range around 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. Silica optimally stabilizes isolated centers for high selectivity. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs the process, with terminal oxo species of VV being the most reactive. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites), notably Ga- and Zn-zeolites, transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga-zeolites act multifunctionally, activating H2 and alkanes to form metalalkyl intermediates. Zn-zeolites show similar reactivity, coaromatizing methane and alkanes. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo or Zn-containing, convert methane to benzene and H2 with high selectivity, involving complex mechanisms with organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx in zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde, while Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts boosts oxidative dehydrogenation activity and peaks selectivity at 3-4 wt% V atoms. Selectivity to ethene exceeds that of oxydehydrogenation products. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, enhancing selectivity, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+ species, increasing activity. Acid sites, including Lewis and Brnsted types, vary with vanadium content, affecting alkane transformation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation. CH bond activation is fundamental in these processes. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varied Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly affect alkane transformations, particularly methane to methanol and carbon dioxide. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde and then to carbon dioxide follows a distinct pattern depending on the catalyst form, with Fe-NaZSM-5 favoring methanol production initially but accelerating its oxidation more rapidly than Fe-HZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal in alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. Efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. In propane ODH, vanadium oxide activity peaks with intermediate VOx domain sizes, enhancing surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is optimized at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure. Surface reduction boosts propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced surface than O2. V2O5-ZrO2 shows the highest reactivity among supports. Additives modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity. Molybdenum oxide catalysts are less active than vanadia-based ones, with propane ODH rates peaking at 4.5 Mo/nm2. Alkali presence affects MoOx domain structure, inhibiting initial reduction and increasing propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and zeolites, play a critical role in alkane transformations. Their efficiency and mechanisms are influenced by redox properties, the V4+/V5+ ratio, and the P:V ratio. The V4+/V5+ ratio is optimal at 4-9 V(V) ions per V(IV) ion for selectivity in n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. The P:V ratio, particularly around 1.1, enhances selectivity for maleic anhydride while decreasing specific activity. Alkane transformations proceed in two steps: oxidative dehydrogenation, controlled by Vw reduction, and further oxidation, governed by Vv availability. Excessive Vv can lead to carbon oxide formation. Catalyst preparation methods impact redox properties, affecting selectivity at high conversion rates. Understanding the solid-state chemistry of vanadium phosphorus oxides, including phase interconversion, is crucial for reaction mechanisms. High surface oxygen concentrations support a single-site mechanism for selective n-butane conversion. Different kinetic behaviors of alkene and alkane reactants suggest varying catalyst surface effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn- and Ga-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbons. Zn promotes H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Zn species facilitate alkane CH bond breakage and formation. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide inside zeolite pores before interacting with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, enhancing aromatization. Synergetic Zn and Brnsted sites enhance aromatization ability by involving both in the activation of the alkane CH bond, leading to dehydrogenation. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Their efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy elucidates structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalytic performance. In zeolites, multinuclear oxygenated gallium species form due to optimal metal center coordination, enhancing reactivity. Binuclear gallium-oxo cationic species facilitate heterolytic CH cleavage, crucial for ethane dehydrogenation. Decreased basicity and stable coordination promote H2 desorption, but hydrogenation can lead to cluster decomposition. Water addition increases reactive oxygenated species concentration, boosting dehydrogenation activity, as observed in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are crucial in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including oxidative dehydrogenation. Their efficiency is influenced by the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, which ensures long catalyst life, and the oxidation state and molecular structures of surface vanadia species. The molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Reduction in environments like H2 and CO forms surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species. The oxidation states of surface vanadia species are affected by hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments. The stability of V(5) silica-supported vanadia species is linked to the presence of isolated surface vanadia species. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species formed. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced by the specific oxide support ligand. Reactivity properties are associated with dehydrated surface vanadia species, particularly the V(5+) form. Bridging V-O-support bonds are critical for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with the TOF inversely correlated with the Sanderson electronegativity of the oxide support cations. The number of surface vanadia sites required for reactions depends on the specific reactant molecule. Interacting additives, especially acidic and basic ones, modify surface vanadia sites and influence selectivity in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, with effects varying by reaction type.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their composition, structure, and reaction conditions significantly impact efficiency. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure enable the activation and transformation of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions. Optimizing these factors enhances yields and selectivities. Novel regeneration methods mitigate deactivation, extending operational life and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts with varying surface densities were studied for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene selectivity. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates at the highest reaction temperatures without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations, enhancing processes like light alkane aromatization and methane incorporation into gasoline. Oxidation of Ga+ species in ZSM-5 by nitrous oxide forms reactive gallyl (GaO+) ions, stabilized by steam, significantly boosting dehydrogenation activity. Water promotes the formation of hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. The stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions facilitates hydrogen desorption. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 dimers involves heterolytic dissociation by the Lewis acid pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, illustrating the catalyst's role in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, P/V ratio, additives, and activation/conditioning. Preparation methods affect the morphology and reduction of V5+, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Additives like Zn2+ prevent overoxidation. Low-temperature treatment in oxygen and surface transformations from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate groups during conditioning enhance performance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition balances reducibility and reoxidizability, crucial for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts display varying activity in methane conversion to formaldehyde, influenced by molybdenum loading and species. Polymolybdate species, dominant at high loadings, reduce dispersion and partially block zeolite channels, enhancing methane activation but decreasing formaldehyde selectivity. Conversely, monomeric species, despite lower methane conversion, exhibit higher formaldehyde selectivity, highlighting the specificity of Mo=O sites for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, converting benzene to phenol with nearly 100% selectivity at 25-30% conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by the catalytic activity of zeolites, iron's role, the zeolite matrix's composition, and the oxidant's characteristics. This highlights the potential for new efficient technologies in organic synthesis, although detailed literature on how catalyst composition and reaction conditions affect alkane transformations is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, efficiently convert methane to aromatics, with activity enhanced by Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu. Zeolite micropore modification boosts performance. Indirect conversion routes involve synthesis gas production, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane has been studied since 1982. Surface oxygen species split the CH bond. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a challenge. Transition metal activity for aromatization follows Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr. Mo-based catalysts supported on various zeolites are investigated for methane aromatization, revealing synergetic effects between metal components and zeolite supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly propane oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support types, and environmental conditions. Different vanadium oxide species form on alumina surfaces based on vanadium loadings, with isolated and polymerized VO4 units at lower coverages and VO6 octahedra at higher loadings. The reaction is exothermic, reaching high temperatures. High dispersion of isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species yields the highest propene selectivity. Both isolated and polymerized tetrahedrally coordinated V5+ species are active in propane dehydrogenation, whereas AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have low activity. The portion of vanadium present as AlVO4 increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations via oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Incorporating metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn into HZSM-5 zeolites creates active species, enhancing acidity and catalytic activity, crucial for alkane conversion. The ratio of Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, influenced by these species, significantly impacts selectivity and conversion. These catalysts are industrially significant, catalyzing reactions like the MTG process and olefin manufacture from methanol under mild conditions, reducing energy consumption and increasing yields. The presence of active species and acidity are key for efficient alkane transformations, making these catalysts economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 catalysts, improving formaldehyde yield. Methane conversion to methanol or formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The catalyst's structure, involving isolated MoO42species, is confirmed by UV and XPS analysis. XRD spectra indicate highly dispersed oxo species, unlike aggregated MoO3 in aqueous impregnation. CO selectivity is linked to residual acid sites on the zeolite surface, with Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts showing high selectivity. The new catalyst's efficiency in MPO reactions highlights its potential for industrial alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies on propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide show high energy barriers, which are lowered by considering a triplet state. The barriers are higher than experimental values for supported vanadia, indicating complex pathways, such as a concerted reaction involving O2 adsorption during water elimination. Support for the vanadium oxide catalyst reduces propane adsorption barriers, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Light alkanes, including propane and butane, are converted to aromatics and alkenes using ZSM-5 catalysts in industrial processes. This conversion isn't fully selective, with light alkenes forming alongside BTX components. Zn-ZSM-5 catalysts enhance BTX selectivity by releasing dihydrogen during aromatization. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, with gallium preferred due to zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures. Additionally, methane can be converted to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, and higher alkanes can be transformed without co-reactants.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms. Two key mechanisms are proposed: (i) dehydrogenation on Zn-sites followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and (ii) reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn-modified zeolites exhibit regioselectivity in propane's methyl groups. Kinetic parameters for H/D exchange in propane-d8 on Zn/H-MFI differ from those for H-MFI and sulfated zirconia, indicating an alternative mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "In alkane transformations, vanadium-based catalysts excel in selective oxidation, with isolated vanadium ions in a stable matrix being key. Efficiency is influenced by product stability, multifunctionality, type of C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and reaction mechanism understanding, yet it's not solely sufficient. These elements are critical for industrial oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane by dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination over Zn sites, yielding propylene and dihydrogen. Propylene oligomerizes over acidic sites, while dihydrogen may participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Recombinative hydrogen desorption shifts equilibrium toward propylene formation, explaining the higher aromatization activity of Zn-containing zeolites. Efficiency is influenced by reactant partial pressure, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting light alkanes to aromatics, key petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Mo and Zn-modified ZSM-5 catalysts excel in methane conversion to benzene under non-oxidizing conditions at 973 K, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. Incorporating Mo or Zn significantly activates methane, with benzene yield increasing as methane partial pressure rises. A carbenium ion mechanism is suggested for methane activation, highlighting the catalysts' industrial significance for alkane transformations, particularly in methane conversion to valuable chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on V2O5(001) shows that while both terminal and bridging lattice O atoms activate the CH bond, the terminal O site's overactivity hinders propene release, underscoring the need for a balance in catalyst activity. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting alkanes into valuable olefins through selective oxidation, meeting global olefin demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts activate ethane through distinct pathways, impacting dehydrogenation efficiency. Zinc promotes heterolytic dissociative adsorption, forming Brnsted acid protons, while gallium weakly adsorbs ethane, producing ethyl and hydride fragments and gallium dihydride species without Brnsted acid protons. These differences are critical for selective alkane conversion in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are crucial in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes. Their efficiency and selectivity are influenced by pretreatment conditions, reaction temperature, additives, the state and location of the active metal form, and feed composition. FePO4 demonstrates effectiveness in CH3OH and HCHO production, while Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite is efficient in methane-to-aromatics conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadia's structure evolves from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing surface density, influenced by support type. Highly dispersed species form on Al2O3, HfO2, TiO2, and ZrO2 at densities below 7 VOx/nm2, while large V2O5 crystallites appear on SiO2. Polyvanadates emerge earlier on ZrO2 and TiO2. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are similar on polyvanadates and surface VOx sites on bulk V2O5, independent of support identity when VOx structure is considered. Rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites were studied for propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn showing higher activity and better BTX selectivity. The conversion mechanism involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, with concurrent cracking to C1-C2 products. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled over ZSM-5-H but in quasi-equilibrium over ZSM-5-Zn. Activation energies for propane conversion were 121+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (1.28 wt% Al), 104+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-Zn (0.71 wt% Al), and 120+15 kJ mol-1 for ZSM-5-H (1.28 wt% Al). BTX selectivity slightly increased over ZSM-5-Zn. ZSM-5-Zn's higher hydrogen diffusion rate results in increased local hydrogen depletion, favoring BTX formation at higher space velocities. Secondary demethylation reactions of aromatics may contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products over ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly impact aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged gallium reduces to Ga+, enhancing propane aromatization. Reduced catalysts are less active for ethane dehydrogenation than reoxidized materials, which yield a dispersed, high-energy Ga3+ optimal for ethane aromatization. Extra-framework gallium boosts alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates. The most active catalyst for aromatics production lacks reduced Ga+ as framework cations, highlighting the importance of gallium's oxidation state and dispersion for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in H-ZSM5 boost alkane transformations by accelerating conversion rates and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation. They facilitate recombinative hydrogen desorption, forming dihydrogen (H2), and enable dehydrogenation without concurrent cracking. Acting as 'portholes', Ga and Zn species enhance efficiency by selectively removing H-atoms, reducing cracking products. This results in higher yields of desired products like propene and C6 aromatics, with minimized by-product formation. The selective H-atom removal by recombinative desorption is key for H2 extraction from light alkanes in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, catalyze alkane transformations through two primary routes: alkyl activation of a CH bond and carbenium activation. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene is initiated by CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. This process is favored over carbenium activation due to lower activation barriers. The first aromatization step involves dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. These catalysts are industrially significant for enhancing selectivity in small alkane aromatization processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing conventional processes. Metal oxide nature and dispersion significantly affect catalyst behavior, with studies showing formaldehyde selectivities over 90% at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity depend on metal loading and surface species dispersion. Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over W/HZSM-5 catalysts using molecular oxygen demonstrates selectivity related to tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, highlighting the critical role of catalyst composition and structure in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, crucial for alkane transformations, are optimized through modification and reaction conditions. Metal ion interactions with zeolite support, particularly Mo species in HZSM-5, are pivotal for catalytic performance. Select metals enhance reactivity and stability, influenced by preparation methods and calcination temperature. Pre-treatments and reaction conditions significantly impact activity. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5 is key for understanding methane dehydro-aromatization, with acid site changes affecting catalytic behavior. Methane activation mechanisms remain debated, hindered by carbonaceous deposits. Understanding Mo species' role in the reaction pathway is essential for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, selectively activate alkenes like propene, achieving high selectivities on silica-supported small clusters. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates best at 500 C, avoiding combustion and unselective reactions. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involves alkane oxidation and active site reoxidation. DFT calculations confirm H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation, forming propene via adjacent VO species. Metal-exchanged zeolites transform alkanes to alkenes and aromatics, with Ga- and Zn-zeolites catalyzing alkylation and coaromatization. Alkanes convert to aromatics through dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. M-exchange zeolites, especially Mo and Zn, directly convert methane to benzene and H2. Mechanisms for methane to ethylene involve carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, MoOx and WOx zeolites oxidize methane to methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene to phenol.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts enhances oxidative dehydrogenation activity of n-butane and ethane, peaking at 3-4 wt% V for selectivity. Lower loadings favor tetrahedral V5+ species, achieving higher selectivity to oxydehydrogenation reactions, while higher loadings promote octahedral V5+. Acid sites, primarily Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brønsted at high V, significantly influence efficiency. These factors are pivotal for understanding mechanisms and applications in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides, are critical in alkane transformations, specifically oxidative dehydrogenation, akin to enzymatic CH bond activation. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species on silica, with hydrogen abstraction occurring at OVV and VOSi bridging oxygen sites. Vanadyl sites are pivotal in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit higher activity than monomers on silica, impacting efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, influence alkane transformations, notably methane to methanol. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion (Quote 6), while the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates (Quote 7). Optimal methanol selectivity is achieved with lower iron content (Quote 8). Temperature and contact time are critical: higher temperatures increase methane conversion but decrease methanol selectivity (Quotes 9, 10). Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation (Quote 12). Catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and Fe(III) incorporation into framework sites (Quotes 1, 4, 5), affects reaction pathways. Sodium and hydrogen forms of Fe-ZSM-5 exhibit different speeds in methanol production and oxidation (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, transform alkanes through oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst efficiency is influenced by the degree of metal cation agglomeration, acid-base characteristics, valence state, and electronic properties. In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, vanadium oxide catalyst activity increases with V2O5 loading, peaking at intermediate VOx domain sizes for optimal surface species accessibility. Selectivity to olefins is highest at intermediate active phase loadings, correlating with monolayer structure development. Surface reduction enhances propylene selectivity, with N2O promoting a more reduced, selective surface. Catalyst support, such as silica, alumina, and titania, affects selectivity and combustion rates. Additives like P, K, Ca, and Ni modify acid-base and redox properties, impacting catalytic performance. Alkali and alkaline earth dopants decrease activity but increase propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations. Reactant redox properties modify the catalyst's surface oxidation state, impacting product formation. Surface dynamics and modifications are essential for understanding selectivity. Alkane to maleic anhydride conversion involves oxidative dehydrogenation and further oxidation, controlled by vanadium oxidation states. Catalyst preparation and the P:V ratio significantly influence redox properties and selectivity. Selectivity to maleic anhydride correlates with vanadium(V) formation rate. The vanadium phosphorus oxide system, with its crystalline phases, affects catalytic performance. An optimal V4+/V5+ ratio is crucial for n-butane oxidation selectivity. The P:V ratio impacts selectivity and activity, with higher phosphorus loading enhancing selectivity for maleic anhydride. The mechanism suggests a single-site process for n-butane to maleic anhydride conversion. But-1-ene and n-butane exhibit differing reactivity, with lattice oxygen playing a significant role in product formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr00083a003"},
{"DOC": "Zn-modified zeolites catalyze light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. Metal species dehydrogenate alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize olefins. Ga or Zn catalyze H atom desorption as H2, shifting equilibrium towards olefin formation. Zn enhances H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, lowering activation energies. Alkanes dissociatively adsorb on Zn oxide species, preceding interaction with Brnsted acid sites. Zn alkyl species form, facilitating H/D exchange and dehydrogenation, yielding olefins for aromatization. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites enhances aromatization ability. Zn directly influences alkane CH bond activation by Brnsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200800569"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are vital in alkane transformations. Their efficiency is shaped by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Spectroscopy reveals structure-activity relationships, optimizing catalysis. In zeolites, confined spaces influence reactivity, guided by spectroscopy and theory. Gallium species in high-silica zeolites form multinuclear oxygenated complexes, enhancing ethane dehydrogenation. The coordination environment and extraframework oxygen basicity affect H2 desorption. Water addition boosts reactive oxygenated species concentration, increasing dehydrogenation activity, as seen in Ga+/ZSM-5 zeolite experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/b815943b"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, featuring surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are pivotal in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Their structure and reactivity are influenced by monolayer coverage, oxidation state, molecular structures, acidity, and the specific oxide support phase. The stable surface vanadia monolayer ensures long catalyst life. Molecular structures are determined by the net pH of the aqueous thin film and are reversible in hydration-dehydration processes. Surface vanadia species reduce to V(4+) and V(3+) in reducing environments. Oxidation states are affected by hydrocarbon environments, with V(5+) being predominant. Preparation methods do not alter the thermodynamically stable surface metal oxide species. Oxide supports have surface Lewis acid sites, while V205 powders have both BrCnsted and Lewis acid sites. Surface vanadia formation decreases Lewis acid sites and increases Br0nsted acid sites. Reactivity is related to dehydrated surface vanadia species, with bridging V-O-support bonds critical for hydrocarbon oxidation. The number of surface vanadia sites required varies with the reactant molecule. Interacting additives modify surface vanadia sites, influencing all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. Acidic and basic additives affect selectivity, but effects are reaction-specific. Supported vanadia catalysts' unique characteristics contribute to their industrial significance in hydrocarbon oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(97)00021-5"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations due to their composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Active sites, acidity, and pore structure significantly affect oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. These catalysts enable the conversion of light alkanes into valuable products under mild conditions, with optimized composition and conditions enhancing efficiency and yields. Novel regeneration methods address deactivation, extending catalyst life and boosting industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.molcata.2006.03.068"},
{"DOC": "Alumina-supported vanadia catalysts for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation show that propene formation rates are eight times higher than ethene rates at a given temperature, with similar activation energies. The ratio of k2/k1 for propane slightly increases with vanadia surface density, while k3/k1 decreases with temperature for both reactants. Catalysts with isolated monovanadate species at high temperatures, avoiding homogeneous reactions, yield the highest alkene production. As surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates and V2O5 crystallites form, affecting ethene and propene formation rates, which peak at intermediate surface densities. High alkene yields require high k1 values and low k2/k1 and k3/k1 ratios. Optimal conditions for high olefin yields are on catalysts with isolated monovanadates operated at the highest reaction temperature without homogeneous reactions.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2002.3570"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including gallium, zinc, and platinum in MFI zeolites, are critical for alkane transformations like aromatization and methane conversion to gasoline. Ga+ species in ZSM-5, when oxidized by nitrous oxide, form reactive GaO+ ions, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. Steam stabilizes GaO+, while water promotes hydrolyzed gallium species, reducing hydrogen recombination energy. Alkane dehydrogenation over Ga2O2 involves heterolytic dissociation by the Ga3+-oxygen pair, followed by olefin desorption and hydrogen recombination, facilitated by the stable tetrahedral configuration around Ga3+ ions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200702463"},
{"DOC": "V-P-based catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, is influenced by precursor preparation methods, P/V ratios, additives, and activation conditions. Preparation methods affect morphology and V5+ reduction, while a high P/V ratio stabilizes (VO)P207. Low-temperature treatment and specific additives enhance performance. Conditioning transforms the surface from pyrophosphate to orthophosphate dominance. A slight phosphorus excess in the catalyst composition avoids V4+ oxidation, balancing reducibility and reoxidizability for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/9781847553232-00246"},
{"DOC": "Mo/HZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by molybdenum species and preparation methods. Two series were studied: one with tetrahedral monomeric and octahedral polymolybdate species, the other with a dispersed monomeric phase. High molybdenum loading favors polymolybdate species, reducing dispersion and blocking zeolite channels. Polymolybdate species enhance methane activation but lower formaldehyde selectivity, whereas treated catalysts offer higher formaldehyde selectivity despite lower methane conversion, highlighting the specificity of monomeric species for formaldehyde production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(00)00472-5"},
{"DOC": "Fe-containing ZSM-5 zeolites excel in selective oxidation, achieving nearly 100% selectivity in benzene to phenol conversion. Catalyst efficiency in alkane transformations is influenced by zeolite activity, iron's role, matrix composition, and oxidant characteristics, highlighting its potential for new organic synthesis technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(93)85021-g"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably Mo/HZSM-5, are pivotal in alkane transformations, with enhancements achieved through Fe, Co, W, Zr, Ru, and Cu addition. Zeolite micropore modification has been extensively explored. Indirect processes involve synthesis gas production followed by Fischer-Tropsch chemistry, while direct routes yield ethylene, methanol, formaldehyde, and aromatics. Oxidative coupling of methane is an alternative direct conversion method. Studies reveal the synergetic effect between metals and zeolites, with Mo > W > Fe > V > Cr in activity. WH2SO4/HZSM-5 is effective for high-temperature methane aromatization, but coke formation is a concern. The CH bond's splitting is attributed to CH4-surface oxygen interaction. Direct methanol and formaldehyde formation routes have been explored, and Mo-based catalysts on various zeolites have been studied for methane aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(01)00440-0"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts' efficiency in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, is influenced by preparation methods, support type, and environmental conditions. Lower vanadium loadings on alumina favor isolated/polymerized VO4 units, while higher loadings promote VO6 octahedra. High vanadium loadings and temperatures enhance catalytic performance, correlating with phase composition, coordination, reducibility, and dispersion. Isolated and polymerized tetrahedral V5+ species yield high propene selectivity, with both forms active in propane dehydrogenation. AlVO4 and bulk-like V2O5 have lower activity. The AlVO4 portion increases with higher vanadium loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.05.050"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, enhance alkane transformations in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. Metals like Ga, Fe, and Zn introduced into HZSM-5 by sublimation form active species, increasing Lewis to Brnsted acid site ratios and catalytic activity. The strength and density of acid sites, along with metal species stability and reducibility, are critical for alkane conversion and selectivity. These catalysts are industrially significant for processes like MTG, olefin manufacture from methanol, and light alkane aromatization, offering mild conditions, reduced energy consumption, and increased yields, making them economically viable for large-scale petrochemical production.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp990116l"},
{"DOC": "A new MoO2(acac)2-grafted HZSM-5 zeolite catalyst for methane partial oxidation (MPO) shows enhanced activity over classical Mo,W/HZSM-5 impregnation catalysts. This catalyst, with highly dispersed Mo(VI) surface species, improves formaldehyde yield in MPO reactions. Methane conversion to methanol/formaldehyde is industrially significant due to natural gas reserves. The mechanism begins with methane's CH bond weakening through interaction with the zeolite surface. Formaldehyde selectivity depends on metal oxide dispersion and nature. Grafting avoids water, yielding isolated MoO42species, which are crucial for high formaldehyde yield. The presence of residual acid sites on the zeolite surface contributes to CO selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00423-8"},
{"DOC": "Quantum chemical studies show high energy barriers for propane oxidative dehydrogenation on vanadium oxide, exceeding experimental values. Considering a triplet state and complex reactions, like O2 adsorption, can lower these barriers. Propane adsorption barriers suggest the need for a support in vanadium oxide catalysts, crucial for enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp056228w"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts convert light alkanes like methane to methanol or higher hydrocarbons, with higher alkanes undergoing conversion independently. Propane and butane dehydrogenation to alkenes is crucial in Oleflex, Cyclar, and MB-forming processes, converting light gases to aromatics, notably BTX, using ZSM-5 catalysts. Aromatization yields light alkenes alongside BTX, with Zn-ZSM-5 enhancing BTX selectivity by releasing hydrogen as dihydrogen. Ga-ZSM-5 or GaZn-ZSM-5 catalysts operate similarly, favoring gallium to mitigate zinc volatilization at reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)80384-x"},
{"DOC": "Zn/H-MFI zeolite, a metal-exchanged catalyst, facilitates regioselective H/D exchange in propane through Zn2+ cations acting as strong Lewis sites, altering alkane activation mechanisms to favor hydrogen removal. Two mechanisms are proposed: propane dehydrogenation followed by protonation and deuteride abstraction, and reversible heterolytic dissociative adsorption forming Zn-propyl species. Zn modification enhances regioselectivity in propane methyl groups, highlighting the significance of catalyst modification in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-007-9044-6"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are critical in alkane transformations, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Vanadium's selective oxidation capability and its ions' isolation in a quasi-inert matrix are essential. Product stability, multifunctionality, C-H bond activation, and acidity/basicity significantly impact efficiency. Multifunctionality aids in catalyst design and elucidates reaction mechanisms, though it's not solely sufficient. These factors are pivotal for industrial success in alkane transformation processes.", "Doi": "10.1080/01614949608006463"},
{"DOC": "Zinc-modified H-MFI catalysts activate propane through dissociative adsorption, forming propyl zinc and ZnOH groups, followed by dehydrogenation and hydrogen recombination to yield propylene and dihydrogen, regenerating the active site. Propylene may oligomerize over acidic sites, while dihydrogen can participate in propane hydrogenolysis. Reactant partial pressure influences efficiency, favoring hydrogen evolution at low pressures and hydrogenolysis at high pressures. These catalysts are crucial for converting light alkanes to aromatics, significant petrochemical feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.037"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to chemicals or fuel is a significant challenge and opportunity in natural gas utilization. Mo-modified ZSM-5 catalysts efficiently produce benzene from methane at 973 K under non-oxidizing conditions. Incorporating Mo or Zn into ZSM-5 enhances methane activation and increases benzene yield with rising methane pressure. Metal cations boost ZSM-5's activity, facilitating methane dehydrogenation and aromatization. A carbenium ion mechanism underpins methane activation, contributing to the industrial relevance of these catalysts by enabling selective and stable conversion to benzene.", "Doi": "10.1007/bf00767368"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, including vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, are pivotal in alkane transformations, notably oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. Their efficiency is influenced by composition, structure, and reaction conditions. For example, V2O5(001) activates CH bonds but must balance activation with propene release for optimal performance. These catalysts are industrially significant for converting inexpensive alkanes into valuable olefins, addressing the global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja0611745"},
{"DOC": "Zinc- and gallium-modified HZSM-5 catalysts drive distinct ethane activation mechanisms in alkane transformations. Zinc enhances strong ethane adsorption, leading to heterolytic dissociation and Brnsted acid proton formation at moderate temperatures. Conversely, gallium exhibits weak ethane adsorption, with high-temperature dissociation yielding ethyl and hydride fragments without Brnsted acid protons. These differences significantly affect dehydrogenation efficiency and selectivity, crucial for industrial alkane conversion processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b506782k"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like FePO4 and Mo/H-ZSM-5 zeolite, are pivotal in alkane transformations, enhancing selectivity and catalyst longevity in processes such as methane conversion to aromatics. Efficiency and selectivity are governed by pretreatment, reaction temperature, additives, the state of the active metal, and feed composition, demonstrating their industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(00)00456-9"},
{"DOC": "In propane oxidative dehydrogenation, supported vanadia's catalytic behavior is influenced by support type and vanadium surface density. Surface structures evolve from monovanadates to polyvanadates and V2O5 crystallites with increasing VOx density. Propene selectivities and oxidative dehydrogenation rates per V-atom peak on intermediate-sized VOx domains, balancing activity and reactant accessibility. Turnover rates are independent of support identity, considering VOx structure. Rates are similar on polyvanadates and bulk V2O5 surface VOx sites. The relative rates of propene formation and secondary oxidation to COx are unaffected by support or VOx structure.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1998.2295"},
{"DOC": "ZSM-5-Zn and ZSM-5-H zeolites catalyze propane conversion to aromatics at 730-820 K, with ZSM-5-Zn exhibiting higher activity and BTX selectivity. The process involves dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and aromatization, concurrent with C1-C2 cracking. Dehydrogenation is rate-controlled on ZSM-5-H but quasi-equilibrium on ZSM-5-Zn. Increasing space velocity enhances BTX formation on ZSM-5-Zn due to hydrogen depletion. Aromatization on ZSM-5-Zn generates hydrogen, contrasting with paraffin generation on ZSM-5-H. Secondary demethylation reactions contribute to C1-C3 hydrocarbon products, particularly on ZSM-5-Zn.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0166-9834(00)82709-8"},
{"DOC": "Gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts' pretreatments significantly influence aromatization activity. Ion-exchanged ZSM-5 enables gallium reduction to Ga+, limited by anionic framework sites. Reduced catalysts show similar redox behavior and propane aromatization activity as Ga2O3 and H-ZSM-5 mixtures. For ethane dehydrogenation, reoxidized catalysts are more active and selective for aromatics production, generating optimal, dispersed Ga3+ at 550C. Extra-framework gallium enhances alkene, diene, and cycloalkene dehydrogenation rates, affecting alkane dehydrogenation and hydrocracking rates, indicated by aromatics/methane selectivity. Reduced Ga+ is not the most active form for aromatics production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0926-860x(92)80336-b"},
{"DOC": "Ga and Zn species in metal-based catalysts boost alkane transformations by accelerating propane conversion, hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation. They act as 'portholes' for H-atom removal, enhancing propene and aromatic turnover rates while minimizing cracking, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, notably zinc-exchanged zeolites, play a crucial role in alkane transformations. Ethane dehydrogenation to ethene follows two routes: CH bond activation and carbenium activation. Alkane aromatization begins with dehydrogenation to alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism involves ethane CH bond rupture, with zinc acting as an alkyl acceptor. Activation energies for the critical steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, highlighting the efficiency of the primary route over the less favorable carbenium activation path.", "Doi": "10.1039/a909426a"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic methane conversion to liquid fuels is challenging, with direct partial oxidation to C1 oxygenates like formaldehyde potentially replacing the conventional three-step process. Metal oxide phase nature and dispersion significantly impact catalyst behavior, affecting methane conversion and formaldehyde selectivity. Banares et al. achieved 90% formaldehyde selectivity at 0.6% methane conversion using MoO3/SiO2. Formaldehyde selectivity correlates with tungsten oxide dispersion, influenced by metal loading, as observed in methane partial oxidation over W/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(98)00114-8"},
{"DOC": "Metal-based catalysts, like vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, crucially impact alkane transformation efficiency. Catalyst modification and optimized reaction conditions enhance performance. Mo species' interaction with HZSM-5's channel structure and acidity is pivotal. Metal loading, especially Ru, Pt, W, Zr, Co, Fe, and Cr, boosts reactivity and stability, whereas V, Li, and P have an inverse effect. Preparation methods, metal component impregnation, and calcination temperature are influential. Reaction conditions, including temperature, pressure, and regeneration, significantly affect catalytic efficiency. Mo species introduction and second metal addition alter zeolite acid sites, impacting methane activation mechanisms. Carbonaceous deposits hinder understanding and process development, while Mo species' role during methane dehydro-aromatization is vital for methane chemistry and activation theory.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00210-0"},
{"DOC": "Supported vanadium oxides, with isolated VO species, enhance selectivity in alkane transformations, particularly for alkenes with allylic CH bonds like propene. Silica optimally supports high selectivities. Oxidative dehydrogenation operates within a narrow temperature window to prevent combustion and unselective reactions, following the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. Terminal oxo species of VV are the most reactive, with H-abstraction as the favored CH bond activation step, leading to propene formation. Metal-exchanged zeolites (M-zeolites) transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics, catalyze alkylation, and directly aromatize methane. Ga- and Zn-zeolites are industrially significant, converting alkanes into aromatics via dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization. These zeolites activate H2 and alkanes, catalyze H/D exchange, and form metalalkyl intermediates. M-exchange zeolites, especially those with Mo or Zn, directly convert methane into benzene and H2 with high selectivity. The mechanism for methane conversion into ethylene is debated, involving carbocations, radicals, or organometallic intermediates. Under oxidizing conditions, zeolites with MoOx and WOx catalyze methane's direct oxidation into methanol/formaldehyde. Fe-zeolites selectively oxidize benzene into phenol by N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_2"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium loading on γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts significantly impacts oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and ethane, with activity increasing and selectivity peaking at 3-4 wt% V for olefins. Selectivity for butane oxydehydrogenation is lower than for ethene. Catalysts exhibit VO4 tetrahedra at low V loading and VO6 octahedra at high loading, with higher activity from octahedral V5+ and higher selectivity from tetrahedral V5+. Acid sites, mainly Lewis at low V and both Lewis and Brnsted at high V, also influence efficiency. These factors are critical for understanding and optimizing alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1997.1673"},
{"DOC": "Vanadium oxide catalysts on silica play a critical role in alkane transformations, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation, where CH bond activation is pivotal. Propane's oxidative dehydrogenation involves monomeric vanadium oxide species, with hydrogen abstraction occurring on OVV sites for the first step and potentially on VOSi bridging oxygen sites for the second, crucial for propene formation. Vanadyl sites are central in the rate-determining step, and vanadia sites on bulk surfaces exhibit enhanced activity compared to monomers on silica, impacting industrial significance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071409e"},
{"DOC": "Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, with varying Si/Fe ratios and sodium/hydrogen forms, significantly affect methane conversion and selectivity in alkane transformations. Higher iron content boosts methane conversion, whereas the sodium form enhances selectivity for oxygenates. Optimal selectivity for methane to methanol is achieved with lower iron content. Increasing temperature and contact time raises methane conversion but decreases methanol selectivity. Methanol production is favored at lower temperatures, but higher temperatures lead to its oxidation to formaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Catalyst structure, characterized by spherulitic aggregates and typical ZSM-5 XRD patterns, indicates Fe(III) framework incorporation, crucial for efficient alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.09.005"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    